ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10450	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 128 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Goran Knezevic, Slobodan Mihajlović, Milan Markovic and Milorad Belic - before noon. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: -Law on the distribution of transferencies from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the participation of municipalities, towns and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. I remind you that we have launched a debate on the amendment of MP Vladimir Jovanovic to Article 3. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) At points 90, 103, 104, 115 and 131, the amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Omeragic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported not to support this amendment, but to make a comment that is very important for this high house to hear. I don't know if Bajram Omeragic is here. This Mr. Bajram Omeragic has submitted an amendment asking for increased funds for the municipalities of Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, Nova Varoš, Priboj and Prijepolje. That Bajram Omeragic asked that these funds increase at the level of our district in which Bajram Omeragic and I live, i.e. At least Novi Pazar or Raški district, probably not my discussion would have been directed in this direction, or if at least Bajram Omeragic had asked, within these municipalities, for increased funds to be allocated to the town of Raska, where our neighbours are 20 km away, who are squirming in problems and torments. But, ladies and gentlemen, something else is hiding here. Namely, Bajram Omeragic and his party List for Sandzak have been declaring for the past ten years a new region – Sandzak; they are declaring a new region, the question is what they will call it tomorrow. They call it the region today. It is a wonder that Mr. Bajram Omeragic did not mention more municipalities, our neighboring, over the hill, brotherly Montenegro, means Pliva, Priboj, Berana, Rožaje etc. They simply want to impose their political ideologies, that they are the only guardians of the Raska area, that he and his Sandzak List only represent the Raska area and want to reach some political points in the area. I have to say, there are no MPs who don't like to be allocated increased funds to their municipality, but we Serbian radicals, you know, we're not about to take someone to give. We are in favour of increasing the resources of all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because problems are everywhere. We treat all municipalities and citizens of the Republic of Serbia equally. But even if this amendment was adopted by Mr. Bajram Omeragic, I wonder how you could transfer these assets to us, meaning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, when Mr. Bajram Omeragic and his list of Sandzak prevents us more than a month from legally establishing a congregation doing its job in the municipality of Novi Pazar, i.e. legally elected representatives of SO Novi Pazar, from entering the municipality of Novi Pazar and doing their job. Is that democracy, what they swear? Is that what they say about Europe, about cosmopolitanism? Simply, and to allocate these funds and adopt its amendment, we in Novi Pazar will not be able to get those funds, because the former government of Bajram Omeragic blocked the work of SO Novi Pazar. I therefore call on the competent Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Loncar, as well as the president of this high house, Mr. Markovic's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to energize all legal resources to enable the legal work of SO Novi Pazar. Otherwise, anarchy will occur in the municipality, and it may result in something even more difficult, as was the case in the pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10452	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd part of Part A, the cities, at point 1 and part B of the municipality, were submitted to points 30, 96 and 100 of the amendment by MP Bojan Kekic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, details and generality in the voting day. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organs in the Procedure against the War Crimes Doers, you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted until the opening of the search will be given to you during the session. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10453	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments to the Law on the conduct of state authorities in war crimes proceedings. It's a short change, but it's extremely important, looking at the existing situation and the importance of the same for our country and people. Could it be a little quieter, so when you're done, I waited two days, I'll continue when you're done. Namely, this country's desire is to have as many war crimes cases tried in this country as possible. One of the remarks that could be heard, even from experts, that we allegedly have a procedural disturbance and that, under our law, the evidence obtained outside the territory of this country cannot be used in the proceedings of our courts, so that would be about why we are not subject to cases. In view of such objections, we have made this change, and we have removed even that objection, which in itself would not be very important if we did not have the situation that we have in the country, and that certain circles claim and that this would be an obstacle. This change gives us the opportunity to judge, in the proceedings before our courts, any crimes committed by war crimes or violations of humanitarian rights. On the other hand, courts can use all the evidence that has been obtained outside the territory of this country or brought before other courts, including The Hague. This is a significant newspaper, and you know for a fact that the UN has brought an exit strategy, where after December 31st, there is no longer the possibility of pressing charges of war crimes before the UN tribunal. In this situation, all procedures at the stage of gathering evidence and investigation will have to be granted to this country. I hope when we meet this procedural condition, given how our judiciary works, at least in this segment of the war crimes trial, we can expect a number of cases to be returned, where the charges have already been filed. So this way we're going to remove the last possible obstacle that could be put in place, and to say that there are procedural interferences and to be tried in front of these courts. I'm saying we can judge. I think we'll be able to do absolutely by all standards, because these cases that have been tried so far have been estimated to have been properly tried and there have been no objections to the course of the trial. I ask that these amendments be accepted, because it is essentially one major change, where we have accepted three amendments, two SRS and one DSS, in fact removed that minimum of any objections that have arisen. These two amendments make it clear in the text itself, and this third introduces the possibility of hearing witnesses, i.e. guaranteeing those witnesses who come to this country to testify in such proceedings, that they will be guaranteed security, or they will not be deprived of freedom. This gives us the opportunity to fully and in accordance with European standards be judged before these courts. And I say we'll be able to do that job. For these reasons, I ask the MPs to accept these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10454	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10455	Mr President, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the main objective of amending and supplementing the Law that the National Assembly is considering today is that the crimes contained in the Hague tribunal's Statute become an integral part of domestic legislation, to become an integral part of the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders. The Hague tribunal's statutes clearly state criminal acts, and they are contained in Article 2 relating to serious infringements of the Geneva Convention, in Article 3 which speak of criminal acts which seem to and mean violations of the laws and customs of war, and Article 4 relating to genocide and Article 5 relating to crimes against humanity. It is good that the motioner accepted the amendment of his fellow MP Krasic, so that all of these members of the UN tribunal's statutes were included in the law, so that tomorrow they would not have the possibility that a possible refusal to comply with some of the charges would be justified by not being part of the Hague tribunal's statutes part of the domestic law or that those acts are not covered by our legislation. In Article 2. The UN tribunal's Statute, which concerns serious infringements of the Geneva Convention, mentions, among other things, that the international court has been authorised to prosecute persons who have committed and ordered serious infringements of Geneva conventions, including the intentional application of major sufferings and serious violations in the destruction and confiscation of property of broad scales, which is not justified by military necessity, deliberate depravation of rights, etc. The violations of the laws and customs of war, i.e. the crimes listed, are about reckless destruction of cities, villages or settlements or destruction that are not justified by military necessity, including attack or bombing by any means of defenseless cities, villages and occupation and destruction, and deliberate damage to institutions intended for religion, charity and education, etc. I mentioned this on purpose and you'll see what it looks like in our case, about the aggression that was made towards our country in 1999. Compared to the amendments and additions of this law, several concrete and very logical questions are raised in my opinion. Whether the adoption of this law and the adoption of the UN tribunal provisions will improve our legislation. My answer to that question is that it won't. All these crimes, which are contained in the Statute of the UN tribunal in those members, are already an integral part of our legislation. The second question, will the amendments to our law improve our country's position in the eyes of the so-called. international communities. The answer of the SPS MPs is difficult, almost impossible, because it is known that the issue of the UN tribunal's work and the developments in former SFRY's premises has nothing to do with justice, with facts, is a matter of politics alone. The third question is whether the amendments to this law will help our people who have already been accused or who will be charged, given what Mr. Minister has said here, that deadline until when all charges should be filed. Whether they'll be helped to be tried in our country, possibly, and the SPS would want that. The question is, will it be, because besides the prosecutor, I have to say that there are people in our country, both civil servants and those who aren't, who are trying very hard not to. In addition to Carla del Ponte, I have to say that in our country there is, and you remember that 1999 expression, a number of different locators who panic their country and talk about Serbia all the worst, and demeaning everything that makes the country a problem of war crimes resolved. They demean the efforts of the state authorities. Here, first of all, I mean those statements that speak of the necessity that all the accused must go to The Hague tribunal unconditionally. I'm talking about those who claim our country does not have a legal order and the judiciary trained to judge war criminals, which is not true. I'm talking about those who are talking about the primacy of co-operation with The Hague tribunal in relation to, say, the election of Haradinaj to the prime minister of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm talking about state officials making statements on behalf of the UN tribunal that the defendant will be tried according to the crime scene. I speak, in one word, in the name of all those who essentially speak ill of their country. I don't think that's good, and it won't do Serbia any good, not to mention individual people. The next dilemma is whether taking over the UN tribunal's provisions will increase the credibility of the institution in our country? The answer of the SPS MPs to this dilemma is – for those people who give primate to the state and do not have a party or personal goal in relation to the state as a primary, because of all that the UN tribunal has done, because of everything that the Hague tribunal has not done so far, in relation to the intentions of the founders of the UN tribunal and UN Resolution 1992, and our commitment, which we have voluntarily signed in the Dayton Agreement on Co-operation in investigating crimes at the premises of the former SFRY. And the Hague tribunal, meanwhile, has become completely different. Here, first of all, I mean the relationship between the UN tribunal and the NATO pact. Little is known or said in public that a co-operation agreement between the UN tribunal and NATO pact was signed as early as 1996, and, in practice, the UN tribunal became an outstretched part of the NATO pact. It is little known and not mentioned that the way to finance this institution is beyond what is written in the UN tribunal's statute, that, besides the UN funds, one of the great donors of this institution and George Soros, it is known what his intention is in these premises. I mention this for the reason that co-operation with the NATO Pact has absolutely defined the role of The Hague tribunal. Double standards have been established and it feels at every turn, and so do we in Serbia. I don't know if you were in a situation a few days ago to read an interview by Carla del Ponte given to the BBC, where she said the UN tribunal couldn't press charges against the NATO Pact, because that's why the NATO pact didn't provide her with all the information required for the 1999 aggression. You can imagine what an expression of shamelessness and unprincipledness it is that the chief prosecutor claims that the NATO Pact did not provide her with all the information related to the Yugoslav bombing in 1999. She used another expression that, I'm convinced, is embarrassing. For what was done to Serbia-Montenegro, that destruction, the victims, everything NATO did in the 1999 aggression, it used the term - incidents. Jamie Shay said it was collateral damage, and she claims it was an incident. At the same time, The Hague tribunal released two Croatian generals, who were directly responsible and participated in the operation, led Operation Storm, where about 2,000 Serbs disappeared according to data. These double arches are present and there is something that cannot in the eyes of people who give primate to the state in relation to party and personal, increase the credibility of that court. What kind of incidents are it or what is involved when it comes to NATO aggression is best spoken of by people who have dealt with or studied the violations of international rights committed during NATO aggression, and I am now mentioning, that is, that is, the point of the one I have at the beginning of this discussion to mention the UN tribunal's statutes, because I have tactfully listed what was contained in the Statute of the Hague tribunal and you will see from these following examples that there was absolutely legal and any other reason to press charges against NATO. Namely, the NATO Pact is not only not accused of having committed aggression, and it should be said, since it is forgotten and I will not now enter into all details regarding the content of the concept of aggression or such, but it is known that an armed attack against Yugoslavia has been carried out by NATO, that the attack was not caused by anything on our part. In fact, Yugoslavia did not attack, nor endanger any of the NATO member states, and the attack was carried out past the UN resolution, past the UN mandate. So, at least on this basis, the NATO Pact was supposed to be charged and held accountable in the face of justice. During these bombings, NATO committed numerous war crimes, those war crimes the UN tribunal mentions in its members, in the tribunal's Statute, which we have now taken over. The UN tribunal has avoided accusing NATO and NATO's leading men of war crimes. Not only did they use forbidden means of war, chemical weapons, flammable weapons. For example, firearms were used when they destroyed a column of refugees, and Albanian ones, when 87 people were killed, or during an attack on a train in the Gredile ravine, when 17 people were killed and 16 people were wounded. These are the incidents that Carla del Ponte is talking about. The tape bombs that were banned, their use was unfortunately multiple times during NATO bombings, and that's what Carla del Ponte says are incidents. The incident was when Djakovica-Prizren was killed in 1999 by 61 civilians and 36 wounded. It's an accident when 13 civilians were killed in the centre of Nis, and 30 were wounded. The incident was when five people were killed in Uroševec, and two children were wounded, or seven people were killed from the delay in the fact that seven people were killed in Serbian bombs. Of course, war crimes is also the use of missiles with impoverished uranium. According to some estimates, during the NATO aggression, the force threw about a million uranium-deprived grains into Yugoslavia, which would mean that about 30 tonnes of impoverished uranium were dumped on the SRJ and most of all on Cosmet. About the use of the forbidden methods of war, and I mentioned that the crimes were listed in the Hague tribunal's Statute, the civilian population was the subject of an attack. Then you have a lot of data, places where civilians were attacked in Belgrade, Pristina, Merdar, Montenegro, an attack on RTS, Prizren, Kula, Cachak, Pristina, Kraljevo, Nis, Vladic's Han, etc. I mention all of this because these are crimes committed by NATO, and the UN tribunal has not responded. I also mention direct attacks on civilians, which is also a criminal offence contained in The Hague tribunal's Statute. In the attack on Aleksinac, when 17 people were killed and 40 people were wounded; 17 were killed in the Gredelic ravine and 16 people were wounded; 61 people were killed on the road Djakovica-Prizren, and 36, Surdulica, etc. So there's a light on what is a violation of the international law done by NATO, and that's for Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal. It's about the incidents. So they qualified it, and the fact that "these incidents happened" and that the UN tribunal did not receive the NATO Pact's requested documentation, have defined that it cannot press charges against the NATO pact. That's embarrassing. Compare all this data, and in the end we are all witnesses of what happened in 1999, with the behaviour of The Hague tribunal, so it will all be clear. There is a claim that our government has not delivered the requested documentation, it is also not true. That file was delivered and immediately after the bombing, and it was delivered since 2000, so here we go. So, beyond politics, and the federal government made by the DOS, and the government made by the Socialists and Radicals at Serbia level, and one and the other government provided the UN tribunal with the necessary documentation. There was no political will. For what? For reasons the UN tribunal will not accuse whoever is funding and who defines the operation. After all, Jamie Shay, though many do not remember, has openly said that The Hague tribunal will not press charges against NATO countries, as NATO countries are someone who finance the institution and that the story begins and ends. So much for credibility. Or related to these latest developments, the UN tribunal's obligation is to press charges against all perpetrators, or all crimes committed at the premises of the former SFRY since 1991. In this context, it is interesting that everything that the leaders of the Albanian political community have done before and after NATO's aggression has been ignored. First of all, I mean Ramush Haradinaj. Our state provided the necessary documentation, taxing, with plenty of evidence, that this man participated in the murder of an enormous number of people, listed the places where these mass graves were located, cited the abduction he was involved in and ordered to commit. She listed where the Serbs were persecuted, murdered, in what way they were expelled. I'm not going to mention it individually right now, but so the state has done everything possible to make that institution have a legal opportunity to press charges. This has not been done and it is for us SPS MPs, besides the previously mentioned, evidence of an extreme political bias. But there is and the minister mentioned this little bit of hope that by adopting this law, we will create a condition necessary for some people who are accused or who will be accused to be subject to domestic legislation. Even that little bit of hope, and it's worth fighting for, and it's something that's good and it's good that this part of the criminal code is included in our legislation. Not because we don't have them, but also on the formal side that we have that legal basis. And that's the only good thing that can be mentioned about The Hague. Only naive people believe that The Hague is not a political court. Even this trial, and President Slobodan Milosevic and other people, says that it does not matter at all what you are accused of, does not matter what is contained in the indictment, it is important that there are people who are willing to betray their country, it is important that there are people who will respect The Hague tribunal's demands and recognise what they are asked to do, to get some parole and something else comes up, and to give the Hague tribunal credibility that it can work. Even those who founded the UN tribunal see that he has not met his primary goal, and that many have helped him exist, are helping him abroad and here with us. But he'll end it, too, and you can see that. In any case, if there is even the slightest hope that the defendants are subject to domestic justice, it is good to be, because it is forgotten that our courts have tried and conducted proceedings against the perpetrators of war crimes, and no one mentions it. But what you're going to do, it's our country and we have to fight with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10456	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is in principle against any special court, against any special organization, because we believe that all of this can be organised normally and because we think that the country shows that it has to be further organised, whenever a problem arises, but I understand the motives of the legislator. There may be some kind of agreement that the public of Serbia knows nothing about, because someone has convinced us that by passing this law that follows some agreements it will be possible to judge those indicted by the Hague court in Serbia, and yet we have not experienced it. Here's to hoping that these changes are not only cosmetic, that we hope that they're negotiated, agreed, that hopefully this is also a way to get the right to acknowledge our country that it can be tried, and that it can judge much better and fairer than it is done in The Hague. One more, there's no mention here, the reason why this law should exist. I do not think that this law exists only for the trial of Serbian citizens accused by the UN tribunal, because Article 3 of the basic law states that the court judges, that the Republic of Serbia is judging all crimes committed on the territory of the former SFRY, regardless of the nationality of the perpetrator or the victim. I am interested in what happened to those judgments made by our courts, against those who committed terrible crimes in Serbia-Montenegro's territory, in most of Serbia's territory, against those who came to Serbia even while they were being tried, and then someone in a voluntary way lifted all judgments against the president of the state, government, commanders, military members of NATO who bombed Serbia. For me, it's a serious problem, because by withdrawing those judgments, I don't even know who was canceling them all, by not renewing the proceedings, because if the democratic authority came on October 5th, it could have democratically tried. Here, the court, at the time of our government, tried dictatorially, by order. On October 5th, democratic forces came, the court judges by order of the democratic authority. The Democratic Authority says it judges justly by the Constitution, by law, by international law, and here for these four years none of you remembers judging those who committed war crimes. There is no balance between Serbia and The Hague by finding a volunteer to surrender. Let's do it another way to balance. You admit indirectly that we are war criminals. There's a lot of us, just some of us want to surrender, some of us won't. Some of us have to chase, some of us don't know where they are, but we're basically a people whose representatives committed war crimes and let's prove to you now that we're in a position to judge our criminals. And for giving up the fact that war crimes have been committed against us, that they were committed by those who would now judge us, because when you have to compare two burdens, you put them on the scale, here everything is put on one side, on the side that accuses Serbs, attacks and judges. Serbia is now organising to judge Serbs, attack them, in very few cases and defend them. Why doesn't Serbia start attacking, accusing and judging not only Serbs. There is no state in the world that has written in its constitution that it will judge only its citizens. If that were the case, we would never have extradited anyone to The Hague or any other state. And that is foreseen, even by the draft constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. War crimes were committed on Serbia's territory during NATO aggression. That's obvious. So-called The international community finds Serbs who committed war crimes, finds Serbs who knew about them and have done nothing, finds those who ordered them, finds those who didn't know it, but whose subordinates committed war crimes. If you continue this way, the international community can tell any Serb -- you watched TV, you participated in it yourself, and you're a war criminal. Why don't we tell you who committed war crimes on us? Whether any of our representatives, who there advocates treating us as a state and as a nation and our judicial system as relevant, are there anyone who advocates proving that we are being committed to war crimes. It all tragically began when you released nearly 2,000 convicted persons to freedom, they were welcomed by fame, driven even by the vehicles of our ministry of justice, and as soon as they moved to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija they got guns in their hands. Now they're already getting ready to start those guns again, kill anyone who doesn't run away. At the time this law was passed, we had an amendment to his very name, you brutally rejected that amendment. Now I see you're adapting the name of the law to a normal legal order, so you're saying no one who's not convicted is guilty. That's right, the D.A. doesn't have a case against a war criminal. With a war criminal, they only have prisons, because a war criminal is the one who's convicted by a judicial verdict and is going to stand trial. Now he's out there worrying about whether he's got bread, whether he's got water, whether he's got a uniform. It's a war crime case and a war criminal. Everything else is accused, accused, suspected, innocent until proven guilty. You know very well that there will be convictions and people who are not guilty at all, but on the jurisprudence of the verdict to base both their guilt and their treatment against them. So, to sum up what I wanted to tell you. If it is a wish and if there are arrangements to enable what I stand for, in Serbia, to conduct proceedings against persons suspected or accused of war crimes, if they wish to oversee it, to mediate, to record, to be present day and night, world companies, representatives of The Hague tribunal, the court of The Hague, Rome, from where they will, we are prepared to do so. If this law is the way for The Hague to stop being a penitentiary, then that law is good. But if this is cosmetics, let's get into this, if the negotiations go completely different over time, because someone owes us to say -- how to charge some people, some don't. How come some people let themselves be defended from freedom and others don't let go? I am convinced that the government of Serbia or whoever is negotiating with The Hague may not even be in the government, perhaps the president of Serbia, I do not know who is negotiating with The Hague tribunal, but I am convinced that he knows who will be released and why. If The Hague releases those you have arrested here and taken to The Hague, then you must tell us – how come you did not act to let those who surrendered voluntarily? The relation to the defence against freedom, his position as accused, if anyone proves to you that he is ready to leave whenever he is called from The Hague tribunal and points to the indictment, he goes immediately to plead guilty or not, then why don't you fight with all your strength to defend him with freedom. I don't have to tell you again that the defendants of Serbia and all their commanders are the military, police and all the people Serbia has chosen to function. Neither you nor we, who are directly interested in our president there, no matter how these proceedings go. I wish they had the right to full defense there. How can you defend Vojislav Seselj, who has not yet begun the trial and not known when it will begin? By being able to prepare his own defense. How come you're not interested in someone who's being charged sitting in a cell isolated without being able to collect evidence for his defense, and that the government, one, the other, the Alliance of Ministers, the presidents, these, they're constantly working with the prosecutor, who is now gathering some evidence in peace that will like to solidify their indictment. When we raised that voice here in Serbia and said: "Stop the people, what is the trial, whether the trial is an opportunity and a lawsuit, and the defense to conduct the proceedings equally, so that judges can conclude whether there is guilt or no guilt, and what is the blame and what punishment they should give. In the case of Hague detainees, only the prosecution is favored. It can change everything, change governments around Europe, especially this one of our weak ones, to choose faces, to set us up, to blackmail us, to impose sanctions on us, to do whatever it wants, to introduce everyone he thinks should be there, to that detention unit, and to hold them there as long as he wants. It doesn't matter if there are army generals, police generals, it doesn't matter how they defend themselves, and you know it well. They'll defend hundreds of thousands of people there. If there's anyone out there they want to see, if those who defended us find themselves... Can I use everything? You did not warn me, so I ask. (President: Yes, of course.) I didn't want to warn you. ) If those who defended us in Kosovo and Metohija find themselves there, they will defend everything Serbia still has. You know generals aren't capable of defending themselves. They need adequate defense there. The lawyers Serbia has there are unable to defend. They're capable of bargaining for money. Almost everyone's cut into it. The Hague tribunal is stuck, lawyers agree with the defendant, with the prosecutor, with the state, and they say, "Acknowledge, you'll have a lower sentence, we'll determine the state where you want to support the sentence, your family will get enough money to live peacefully, you see that he will certainly be convicted." Admit it, but accept and testify against someone else. Several cases have been completed following the accelerated procedure. All these people have already been suggested to be witnesses to the charges against others not in The Hague. Don't defend yourself anymore, you who now decide how it will be. You see, since you have incorrectly defended yourself from these from The Hague, you now have the opportunity to defend yourself against those from Serbia. The weaker you defend yourself, the more those who stand on the other side. All the enemies of Serbia, both outside and inside, have lifted their heads. It's not The Hague. It's not just a crime scene. It's not just a crime scene. When we were defending criminals in Serbia, but we were always defending the innocent. No innocent must be convicted, and innocent is anyone who has not personally committed a war crime who has not ordered it. You are silent in front of the fact that the president of the state was accused there because some soldier committed a war crime, because some police officer committed a war crime, because there was an idea of a great Serbia; so what. And today, there's this idea, and no one will ever be able to shut it down. What's the name of the state? That's what we'll see. All nations, every man in the world has an idea. Everyone does it in a certain way. Have you ever heard of radicals accusing the war crimes of Bosniaks in Raska who want to have their own country, further, which are verbal; Hungarians in the north of Vojvodina who say they are southern Hungary. Is that a crime? Is that a war crime? No, everyone's got an idea, everybody's dreaming about their dream. If he takes the gun in his hand, if he goes against the constitutional order, then he comes into conflict with the law, not because he comes out on the stands and speaks his ideas. In The Hague, half the people are tried for ideas. Another quarter because they defended the country whenever it was threatened. There are war criminals there, but don't let one innocent be convicted just because he's your political rival. Do you see how this life builds up rivals and separates best friends, in politics, I mean, just like in life. You're burning Belgrade with someone today, and tomorrow you'd burn them for getting you into it or for proving to be a bad man. Our relationship with this law, Mr. Minister, is the same as with all the laws proposed by the Serbian government, it really takes a lot of reasons to be in this assembly on any basis. The law, you say it brings us closer to the day we're going to judge. Don't let those in The Hague die until then, until that day, because there's a lot going on. In order to vote for this law, someone here has to come out with the data and say, yes, we have agreed, so many indictees go under the jurisdiction of the court in Serbia, and that's what they're called, that's what they're accused of. This all looks like the whole of our legislation since 2000, and we're doing everything we can to show how ready we are, so we're ready, so we're getting more and more ready and further away from the European Union. This law now shows us that we are ever more prepared for a war crimes trial, but tell us if it can happen that they never leave it to us. Then why do we need all this? We're wasting precious energy. And the citizens of Serbia who are looking at us now, so they think something really is going on as soon as these are going on, giving guarantees, changing the law. Here, I'm asking you as a man who should be informed whether something big is happening, whether something big is being prepared, whether something big is being prepared in relation to The Hague-Belgrade, I'd really like to know. If you have succeeded, don't let it be a secret to the citizens of Serbia. If you're not, don't tell us there's a chance we can make it. In order to defend the country again, and you know that we will soon be able to defend it again, and we need to know the attitude towards those who defend the country, and that is why my attitude towards the extradition of the generals is clear and firm. Here, for who knows which time to tell you again, if you hand over one of the four generals to The Hague, we will bring down the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're not going to crash, we're going to take her down. You know how a strong parliamentary party destroys a government that withdraws such a gesture, we'll have most of it here, I guarantee you, because it won't be possible for you to get over your own. If you hand over one general, don't wait for March next year, then you'll need heroes and you know it well. You won't need war criminals and you don't need Serbia ever, but Serbia will always need heroes. Unfortunately, we're in a situation where we're about to need it, so show your gesture to the heroes. If someone can spray themselves and defend themselves with their own body, show you with your political attitude that you too can get out and that you can at least be one of the people who deserves to defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10458	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10459	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certainly necessary to take the necessary steps so that our courts can take certain cases and show maturity and seriousness to such a complex subject. I want to point out that responsibility is, of course, individual. It cannot possibly be brought into any collective context. So, of course, people aren't guilty until it's proven before the court. What I'm saying is that we've taken over certain international obligations and this is not a political or party issue. The state of Serbia has taken over certain international obligations it must respect. If we are in favour of resolving the most important issues, and you know that this is Kosovo and Metohija, relations in the state union, co-operation with The Hague tribunal, then we cannot say for certain things, that is, in our interest, so we will respect international obligations until the end, and for Kosovo and Metohija, we will take Resolution 1244 as a key point of reference, and to co-operate with the UN tribunal, so we do not have to respect it until the end, although the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal is brought into force on the basis of Security Council Resolution No 827. So when, as a country, we want to be mature and responsible, when we want what happened and opened, so good co-operation with international financial institutions, co-operation in other areas, integration regarding different types of economic laws with laws related to Europe. When we want to open up to the world in all segments, if we respect international obligations, we can't say, we respect one another, we don't respect the other, even though we made laws on the basis of the same resolutions. It is true that this 1993 resolution, and that the then government has actually taken over certain obligations and that in the meantime we have interrupted relations with the whole world, but it is clear to all of us that we cannot be the only country in Europe that does not cooperate with its environment and other countries of the world. So, obligations exist, the law is clear and certainly good that there is voluntary surrender. This means that she has matured consciousness among individuals that they will not bring the country into a difficult position, that they will not make ballast to this country in relation to the rest of the world. I would just like to say that there is something in the Serbian people called the officer's honor. I don't know in the history of the case that someone who holds on to this honor has conditioned the entire state to hide from anyone. Innocentity can also be the result of all of this. No one's guilty until proven guilty. But why run away from these things? It's best to face the truth. It's best for every single person in this country and beyond. For G17 plus is acceptable anything that promotes co-operation with international institutions, anything that in a certain way raises the reputation of our institutions, means raising the capacity of our institutions to deal with the same things. If we had the guts and the responsibilities and before, certain cases were to start here, end here, etc. So we can't have different arches. On the other hand, I think it's good to speed up everything our institutions, international co-operation and reputation raises.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10460	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10461	In this matter, with this imposed international obligation that we have, and imposed by the Security Council's decision, we don't have much to think about. It is therefore necessary to fulfil international obligations. We have an obligation to an institution, which I personally hold, that is my opinion, that it is not a court, but a political institution that is made for a particular political reason and which, unfortunately, with the notion of a trial or what we lawyers like to call justice in a trial, has little to do with it. But it's about one forced obligation. How do you respond to such an imposed obligation? We simply cannot avoid it, and the answer does not lie in arrogance to such an institution and to an international environment, nor in unnecessary condescending. Simply, what we need and what the DSS has been talking about all this time is that we need to get the strength to find a unique answer on a few important state issues, no matter which political party they belong to. And by this, unfortunately, at the moment in which we live, a very important issue of relations with The Hague tribunal, we must also have a unique position, a unique answer that must be reasonable. How different we can be on such an important issue is the very title of this law that we are changing today, which is called the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, which hides in itself a dangerous thesis of the former legislator of this law, which was adopted by the National Assembly, that we are dealing with proven war criminals here and that this is about the process of bringing them to an international court, which would represent our obligation. From this difference, which is underlined here by the changes and additions that the current proposal - the Serbian government has proposed, we also see all the differences that, unfortunately, exist in our approach to this matter and in our approach to resolving certain international obligations that have been imposed on us. So, this is seen in what is now proposed to change the title of this law and not to call it the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in proceedings against war criminals, but in war crimes proceedings. Therefore, anyone accused of any crime has to be considered innocent until a judicial verdict proves him guilty. It is an extremely important postulate of international law and the domestic constitution, which we must respect. That's how human rights and freedoms are protected. The way to access the obligation to the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague can be viewed in the way that earlier authorities have approached the obligation when it comes to arresting war crimes indictees. The dignity of a man was not respected and not respected exactly by the title of a law that had been passed before, because these people were treated as common criminals and criminals, and thus treated in the process of arrest. We told you what our priorities were. Priorities in the manner of co-operation with The Hague tribunal cannot possibly be arrests, especially in the way they were previously conducted. The priority must certainly be voluntary surrender of the UN tribunal indictees. Of course, we are aware that international obligations must be respected and that, in that sense, the federal law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which includes, ultimately, the repressive measures involved in the detention. However, we cannot escape the fact that we have a certain dignified relationship with ourselves, as a state and with the people, and to persons who cannot be considered as criminals in advance, until a judicial verdict proves it to them. It's in the interest of this country to make it all a matter of voluntary surrender as a priority. Of course, in this bill, the minister has already talked about it and I will not repeat what is said, there are two other very important changes. One refers to the precision of the office of the prosecutor's office, and the second amendment concerns, Article 7 of this bill, the introduction of a new member of the 14a law, which, in practice, makes it possible to comply with the rules on the procedure and evidence of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, whose amendments came into force on 17 July 2004. The harmonisation of this law with the rules of the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague is one procedural condition, which would allow us to do what we have long wanted - to establish full two-way co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, I repeat again, no matter what we think about the essence of that court, because it is an imposed obligation. Two-way co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague implies several things. One would be that of the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague for the trial in our country. This implies that our courts could be used with all the evidence that, in accordance with these rules, was collected and processed at the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, which was collected by the UN war crimes prosecutor for the former Yugoslavia in proceedings before the court. Therefore, they would thus create procedural conditions, i.e. remove any disturbance that could stand as an argument that it is not possible in our country to judge these war crimes and against the prisoners raised before the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. We can talk about this any way we want, we can have a tendency to have different understandings about this issue, different understandings of politics, express doubts and fears that this full co-operation in this regard is possible, but we must not allow ourselves to miss out on this possibility and in some way on the other hand, if the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague is the other side, and I think, unfortunately, yes, we are giving any argument, formal nature, to reject our demands and our cry for the defendants to be tried for war crimes in our country. This text of the bill contains, in that sense, two amendments that have been accepted, so that they have become an integral part of this text of the law. One amendment by Zoran Krasic, who explained in Article 3 of this bill what this law is practically applied to and at point 2), said it was, in fact, cases of war crimes trials in the former Yugoslavia before the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. Of course, it is an amendment of the DSS to Article 7 which has been enriched by Article 14a and which speaks about the protection measures of witnesses and damaged by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which remain in force, and is now specified in this amendment what happens to a person staying abroad, that it cannot be deprived of liberty, detained or prosecuted for a previously committed criminal offence, while located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the purpose of giving testimony in the capacity of a damaged witness or an expert in the cases of criminal acts referred to in Article 2. In this way, it is possible for this cooperation to be achieved in a simpler, better, faster way. So, by adopting this law, regardless of all the differences in opinion on all these issues we've heard, it's very important because it removes this obstacle to two-way co-operation. I think it's our responsibility. The temporary freedom of those convicted, to defend themselves from freedom, can require and raise certain issues in public in our country -- why are these persons, why are they not others, but regardless of all this, if it is a clear signal that it is possible to do so, then it is logical to expect such cases to be in the future. Finally, when we talk about the diversity of politics, about the different vision of our obligation to the International Court, we are also talking about why some war crimes indictees before the International Criminal Tribunal were not given prior guarantees by this state to defend themselves from freedom, but only now seems to be. This is evident from the earlier name, that is, the current name of this law that is being amended by this proposal, so in this sense I call on all the MPs, all the political parties in Serbia to finally contribute to our behaviour by getting a single view on this issue, to act in a unique way and not to show differences where we do not need to have them, so that in this way we allow this imposed international obligation to still be fulfilled in a way that is the easiest way for our citizens and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10462	Does anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SRS, DS and DSS. We have four speakers. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Milica Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10463	Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the case of war crimes offenders, which today is before us, in my debate as a subject will be divided into two parts. The first concerns issues I would like to ask the minister for clarifications after the completion of the principle of discussion and discussion in particular, and the second general evaluations concerning both the text of the law and the subject for which and for which we adopt these amendments and amendments of the law. The questions I refer to are the following: the amendments, as the Minister said in the opening statement, refer to the termological correction consistently from the title through the members, to the precision, i.e. the addition of Article 14a, and, as I understood, by adopting some amendments, to the precision of the total corpus of criminal acts against humanitarian law and humanity, which is introduced into the law taxively; the first question is, therefore, the replacement of the words "war crimes perpetrator" with-the procedure for war crimes; how much is the termological problem? I would so much like the minister to explain that this is not about trying to depersonalise the law, because if the provisions themselves change and supplement and we are calling for criminal law, there stands the perpetrator of the crime, the perpetrator of the crime. So, do not deny that it can be said – the war crimes procedure, I simply think it is good to explain, both to our public and to us or to some of us who have vagueness of the real reasons of this kind of termological replacement. The second issue concerns the acceptance of evidence and all documents from the Hague tribunal's executive actions. So, I would like to ask the minister's clarification, as it is appreciated, whether or not to accept what is against one of the suspects, whose case is being taken over by the domestic judiciary, whether it will be accepted or not. I know it's written in the last opinions, but I just think it's good for the minister to make it clear to the public as well as to us who don't read it in the same way as the promoter does. The last question is, in public, and here at the speaker, the International Tribunal is referred to as a political institution, not a court. I would like to ask an explanation of why the provisions of the statutes, these political institutions, are being introduced into our law and thus into our judiciary. They can't survive both attitudes. It cannot be that the International Tribunal is exclusively a political institution, which was established to judge only one party involved in war conflicts and horrors in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, and that we consider it good to quote statutes or regulations, calling for, as a procedural need to be able to take over at all. It's either that court, and it's our court, or it's not. What I am still interested in is whether, in the proposals, amendments and additions and this law, whether our home judiciary is subject to command responsibility in the process, or in two ways. Whether we have it as a responsibility and for which we will charge someone, and whether it will eventually be a decision to appreciate whether or not we will accept someone's evidence in an investigation before The Hague tribunal and according to the statutes and regulations. I don't see it here from change. I can't see from the basic text of the law. It would be good, both for the public and for those of us who have such questions, for the minister to explain it. The final question, given Article 3 which implies both perpetrators and victims in the basic text, regardless of nationality, as someone who was a participant as a victim or as a perpetrator was a participant in the territory of the former SFRY, whether the minister has any knowledge whether we are as a state based on someone's testimony, and if not on any other information, close to raising the indictment and on the basis of the same article. So, to be perfectly clear, I'm not asking for names or events, but I'm asking the minister if she has any knowledge that the state of Serbia is interested, at least through someone's testimony, to initiate any suspicious procedure for any of the perpetrators of war crimes. It's a list of my questions. We have not disputed the adoption of this law, nor in the basic text. The DS Parliament Club will also not dispute the adoption of these amendments and additions, with the request of the Minister to offer these clarifications to our parliamentary club. In the second part, what I want to share with you as a general position, that is the reason, cause or reason, and the reason why we have this text of the law in general, and in the basic text adopted in the previous assembly of amendments and additions. This law, as well as in the Assembly, and we believe in the public, should open up a long-standing process of facing everything that happened between 1990 and 2000 for at least three reasons. First, never to happen again. Second, to clearly indicate the personal guilt of the perpetrators of a war crime. Thirdly, when we do it as a society, as a people, that we can move forward at peace with the past, at peace with ourselves, faced with all that has happened to us, that there may be any progress in both our society and our region. If we look at the political scene and co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it has in response from politicians: yes, it should be co-operated, as well as with any other international level institution; yes, it should, but we wouldn't, if we didn't have to; and, we don't need to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. It's the three legitimate attitudes we have because we haven't taken on an important job that every company in the war has to do, if they really want to go forward and face what was going on, they never would again. What is proof, first, of the very passing of this law? However we comment on the political scene, it is an agreement that there were war crimes on the territory of the former SFRY, whoever committed them, whoever was the perpetrator and whoever the victim was. What's missing, and in this part of the discussion, I'm entering a personal attitude. First of all, we as MPs, then the public, on the subject of war crimes, completely separate two things. The first thing, the right of an individual, a social group or a broader part of society to use the last appeal in conflict with their own state. When all the mechanisms that an individual, a social group or a part of society have with a state are exhausted, then each is given the right to the final appeal. It's an armed defense, self-defense, you can politically paint it or not paint it, but the last appeal as an institute exists, has been accepted and recognised, not only in the Balkans, but also in human society. The responsibility of politics is not to call for a final appeal. We are now putting political views here, and yet I can say my personal position, my fundamental grudge, and why I consider responsible politicians in the 1990s, is that the wars began, so that they are not in the right way, in my political opinion, exhausted all the other mechanisms before apparently the institution of the last appeal was established. That should be taken away from the lack of the right to commit a war crime. So there's no last appeal you can justify committing a war crime. War crimes is if an unarmed person, a civilian in war conflicts kills an armed person. Everything else is terrible statistics, horror comparisons, everything else is a horror that can be abused, manipulated, not manipulated. One unarmed face and one armed face, and this first one as a victim, that's a war crime. If we agree on that, I think it'll be simpler for us as a society to open up other topics. Why it's important for me to share with you my view of the lack of the right to war crimes, as much as we fear him emotionally and politically. and the existence of a right to the final appeal. Because it's about people and it's about a social group of people who, either as mobilized or as volunteers, whether with a residence or a place of residence in the areas of war conflicts, participated in these war conflicts. Later agreements, peace agreements and NATO bombings have practically established a situation on the territory of the former SFRY that you have neither the winner nor the defeated. In a sociological and psychological sense, this implies a huge difficulty for people who participated in these conflicts at risk or voluntarily, however, that you will rarely hear them say that they were somewhere in a job sent by former JNA or as volunteers. You will hear it from everyone, not just from people who from Serbia have been mobilized or volunteered. At that point, you can open up a rhetorical question about whether we would have a situation like this in the Balkans that we have if there were no wars. In that rhetorical corps, which are completely unnecessary, you have a series of personal questions about who was part of that war, the one who felt deceived, manipulated, not to talk about the horrors of the one who came out of the war as disabled or the horrors of the families who lost someone in those wars. The right of these people to have a terrible part of our common history in their biography is violated by the general view that no war crimes have been committed and that's the step we were on in 2000 or 2001, so the steps of denial that war crimes have been committed in the first place. Now, fortunately for the future, we are not fortunate by what happened, on the steps of consent that war crimes were committed. Evidence is the law that was before us last year and changes and additions to the law that is before us now. Why do I think it's a subject that needs to be a direct cause for this law to be? Because the current political scene in one way or another, as in the 1990s apparently divided into those who support war and those who are against war or were really divided, is now apparently divided into some part of the political scene that is for sanctioning war crimes and those that are against sanctioning war crimes. I think, with the agreement that we have this law because war crimes were, it takes second consent, which is that sanctioning war crimes must be. Share them after the spectrum of those who say: in co-operation with The Hague yes, it is an international institution, those that would not, but that is, we must, including those who say -- we would not work with The Hague at all. What is ultimately my desire to share with you as an attitude on the subject we have on the agenda is an assumption of innocence. Since we politicians and some of you are lucky lawyers, who we have the opportunity to listen to here, I am not, but I always learn from excellent lawyers, the assumption of innocence is a term for the court and we have a successful political message of insinuating the presumption of innocence as an attitude towards everything we haven't faced, and what happened in the premises of the former SFRY. The court will appreciate whether someone is innocent or not. That is not what politicians should do, because they can then report with the same attitude and "clean criminals" who can expect politicians to be spoken of in public as assumptions of innocence. Will this law with amendments and additions lead to there really being objects that have been handed over to our judiciary? And in the end, I would really ask the minister, if he remembered the questions, to really give me answers to the questions I asked at the beginning. Our questions are how, if The Hague is a political institution, its provisions of the statutes and regulations enter into this law? Why and in what way is the perpetrator, by which explanation, not the war crimes offender, but war crimes? How is it appreciated whether the evidence will be accepted or not? Is there a command responsibility in this law? Does the minister have any knowledge, no names, no events, that the state of Serbia, at least on the basis of testimony, intends to or initiate proceedings to suspect persons who, regardless of nationality, have committed war crimes during the conflict in the territory of the former SFRY? If this law really does not allow us to have an open process, as we currently have a different profile, we will do ourselves a bear service because, however it may be, it is not a co-operation with The Hague, it is not a delivery to The Hague and it is not a trial for war crimes or a war crimes offender in the original version of the text of the law of the international community's interest. In one way, if you really stop and look into the future, it's the interest of this society. If this generation doesn't, they'll have to do something else. We think it's time as a generation that we accept that we don't leave unfinished business to all those who come after us and that the jobs they left us for a variety of reasons, whether there's a lack of political talent, a lack of will, an irresponsibility, to finish them. One of the most difficult jobs of this kind is facing the past, facing war crimes and creating a unique attitude so that what happened to us never happens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10464	Minister of Justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10465	I was asked to answer some questions. I'll be able to do something, and I won't, because it's political matters, and they're not about the subject matter of this agenda. As far as this change of term is concerned, it is adequate because regulation of matter is not related to individuals, to the perpetrators, but to the matter that is regulated by law. That's why you have, for example. They say, crimes, criminal matter, litigation, so criminal acts against it, against it, against it, there are no perpetrators, but there is talk of matter, and in this sense there is this precision. Whether or not the Hague tribunal is a political institution, it is your debate here in the Assembly, and as far as I know in the law, it is not mentioned. As for this matter of presummation of innocence and your claim that it is a matter of court proceedings, I must inform you that it is not. Our Constitution provides for one of the fundamental rights, which is this presummation of innocence, and I ask that we at least respect it, and you have other provisions, and even in the Convention on Human Rights that we have signed, the right of a citizen to a fair and fair trial. So we can talk about it, but as far as this is concerned, make sure that the law defines it very precisely and determines it, just so it doesn't lead to this kind of misunderstanding, so that you ask questions. The third question, I think, was related to this, if the political institution is why acts are being introduced. It's very simple, if we accept international obligations, it's works that aren't meant only in the statutes. You have in the statutes of the Roman Court, and you have in our criminal law. This is just a precision for certain obligations that have been accepted and I don't think there should be any interference, because I'm not dealing with this other topic, about the political or non-political character of that body. I especially want to point out to this last guy that he shouldn't have referred to me. The war crimes prosecutor has been elected in this assembly, if you have any questions as to whether the proceedings are in motion or not, refer him to the authority you chose, not to me. I don't have that data, except for what I hear as much as you do, to collect certain evidence. As far as I know, there's only the Sheepman that's been launched, and the other procedures have been in the regular procedure to run, and I don't have any other data. So let me say, if there is any need to get that information, please contact the authority that you chose here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10466	Before I give my word to the MP, just two notices, that the Legislative Committee is in progress. If there are other members who have not left, please accept this notice. And at 13.30 is the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The word has a folk MP, Milica Gavrilovic, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10467	It seems to me that the minister forgot to answer one question, which Mrs Comic mentioned, which is whether the facts, on the basis of these evidences carried out in court, will be accepted as evidence or not. Mrs. Komic, it depends solely on the principle of free judicial conviction and that is a subject that we cannot enter here, and it is reserved exclusively for the court. In order to make it clearer for our citizens, I will immediately say what we get through the adoption of this bill. It would allow more cases of cases of the International Criminal Tribunal to give in to domestic justice and proceedings against blameable water in our country. It's always been the DSS's intention, and so has this government. The trial story in Belgrade and the trials in Serbia at all are not new. We will recall that by the end of 2000, US Secretary of State Madlen Albright spoke about the possibility of official Belgrade and the tribunal agreeing to dislocation certain procedures. At the time, unfortunately, there was no interest on either side.A simple political environment was not created, but it was created in early 2004, when the government was formed. The question arises whether our prosecutors, or our judges, are up to speed and ready to prosecute war crimes? Technically, I must say that they meet all these conditions, a team before all the crimes that are numbered in the Statute of the Hague tribunal are foreseen in our domestic criminal law, more specifically in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, including serious violations of the 1949 Geneva Conventions, including genocide, including crimes against humanity and, of course, violations of the laws and customs of war. Besides, the defendants in our country would have a better chance of a fair trial. That is confirmed by some of the rules of our criminal procedural rights. Unlike The Hague, we don't have sealed indictments. There is no possibility that the debate on complaints could be held in front of the same major. It simply never existed in our legislation. Also, the D.A.'s court and office are separated, and the people who are unnecessarily imprisoned we guarantee the right to compensation. I don't know what the situation is with other countries in the environment, but I have to express my doubts about one country, or Croatia itself. Is she capable and up to trial for war crimes? I express this suspicion primarily because I followed a lot of trials, i.e. proceedings before the county courts in Croatia, and most of all, on my suspicions and attitude caused the Lora case. I don't know how many of our citizens are simply familiar with this case, but there is a trial against eight defendants, more specifically members of the Croatian military police, for the murder, torture and torture of Serbs in the notorious camp of Lora. Also, I don't know if most of you know how this procedure is done. They're cleared of the charges. Unlike Croatia, Serbia is up to the trial of war crimes, which is confirmed by many of the procedures that have been initiated by this country. It just shows that Serbia has the awareness and courage to face such a problem. The first war crimes case in Serbia was the trial of Dusan and Vojin Vukkovic, better known as the "Yellow Wasp". A trial was launched here in 1996 in front of the County Court in Sapac, so that Dusan Vukkovic would be sentenced to 10 years in prison for war crimes against the civilian population in 1998. I also mention the case of Strpci, when the Supreme Court in the White Field sentenced Nebojsa Ranisavljevic to 15 years in prison for war crimes against the civilian population in 2002. The first war crimes trial in Kosovo was held before the District Court in Prokuplje in 2002, when Ivan Nikolic was sentenced to eight years in prison. I'm not going to stick around to the actions that have been conducted in our country, I'm just going to mention them. It's about Colonel Mancic and the others, the North, the Poduje, the Orahovac and of course the Ovcara. Ovcara is a procedure prosecuted before our court with co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Here the indictment was brought against seven accused members of the territorial defence of Vukovar for the murder of 192 members of Croatia's armed forces, who were later shot at the agricultural good Ovcara on the night between 20 and 21 November 1991. This is the first war crimes case to be conducted before the Belgrade District War Crimes Court, and for this very reason it is an extremely important case for our country. He's kind of a test for our judiciary, which needs to prove that our courts are capable of judging war crimes. The indictment of the domestic justice tribunal would contribute to the tribunal's exit strategy, which envisions that all investigations before The Hague tribunal are completed by the end of this year, all trials by 2008 and all appeal proceedings by 2010. Adjudication of charges to Serbian courts would help break up with the past and the process of reconciliation in the Balkans. It seems to me that this is understood by The Hague because it has never happened before that The Hague recommends that a single procedure be assigned to the Special Branch of the District Court for War Crimes. It is the case of Vladimir Kovacevic, who was indicted before The Hague for attacking Dubrovnik. This all confirms that Serbia is capable of judging war crimes, which was just shown in its report by Mrs Carla del Ponte. She simply described judges and prosecutors as "professionally and technically capable of judging by internationally recognised and legal standards". The entry of the case – "Vukovar Troika" or "Vukovar hospital" would have its positive effects on the future voluntary surrender of the accused and on the very process of further reconciliation in the Balkans. This bill removes the only objection that representatives of the international community have had on our domestic criminal legislation. This bill allows the evidence provided and implemented abroad to now be used as evidence in criminal proceedings in our country. I call in the end all those who think it is good that war crimes indictees are tried in our country to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10468	Here, replica, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10469	Ladies and gentlemen, the right to replication is based on the direct mention of the name in the presentation of Milica Gavrilovic's MP and the misreading of what I had in the dialogue with the minister. So either you have a new deputy and assistant, or you forgot your answer. I would ask all MPs who support the ministers, that's their right to refrain from such a defence of the minister. I think that the minister, in relation to my questions, is quite able to answer the content that I think is enough and correct, and I don't think it is necessary for MPs instead of the minister, knowing what he forgot and what he didn't know, to give answers. What I missed and therefore the question again is command responsibility. Whether it was appropriate in your address and whether it is understood that command responsibility will be the basis for the opening of the investigation, the prosecution and the charge of the suspect. What would really be good, except calling for article 18. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia is that we really hear clearly at least your position, as minister, as a man experienced in justice and as someone who had the opportunity to deal with free judicial conviction. What is it that our judiciary will appreciate, that even if it is not carried out in accordance with the Statute and the UN tribunal Regulation, it will not be accepted as evidence and how the provisions of the Criminal Code are applied accordingly. I need that answer because I think it would separate some doubts about the provisions of this law, and I think it would be good for the public as well. In any case, I thank my colleague for the defence of the minister, but the MP speaks to the minister, not to the other MP. When we address other MPs, then we do it our own way, not involving the minister and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10470	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10471	Thank you for explaining to me now something I didn't seem to understand. I didn't realize I needed to defend myself. I thought there was a legal question here about the law. As far as commanding responsibility is concerned, I didn't answer your question. I'll tell you right now, this law predicts, it's so-called. miss-shops. We also have the possibility of a trial for the accidental execution of a crime. I will make it clear to you, he says, "Whoever does not knowingly do something or does not?" He could have known. When you look at General Blaskovic's final verdict, it even gives one degree more as an opportunity not to be tried for certain acts. She's only talking about conscious inadequacy. It even shuts down the unconscious dimension. He says – he must be quite confident that this will happen, so he misses. It's already a matter to be discussed with our Code of Criminal Code, because it's intended to be a crime of failure. I'm just distracting you that we also have an untimely execution of a crime. It implies this, too, that he could have known without his personal properties and circumstances, and he didn't. You have cases to be tried here, and in Croatia you have a case to be tried, and our legislation is very similar. Even we're bringing in the paper. As far as this evidence issue of yours is concerned, don't ask me how the court will judge them. We're here to ensure that the court can use all the evidence, that there's no more interference stories, and that any evidence will assess, that whoever accepts it, is like any other procedure, can first of all accept something as evidence or not accept it. If he accepts it, when he takes it out, he'll appreciate whether he accepts it and bases the verdict on it or not. It's a matter of trial. It's not about this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10472	Thank you. The People's Messenger Alexander Vukic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities' Jurisdiction in the case of war crimes offenders has mainly brought about the terminology changes. Serbian radicals, as the only opposition party in this parliament, will not vote for the proposal, but we are obliged to say what is what, at least in that termological sense, something better or something worse than what we have so far. It's a good thing there's no more "war crimes perpetrators" syntagms because you prejudge that they committed a crime. This puts pressure on all other competent national authorities to make a significant decision in a given procedure. It's something that could be acceptable. What is from our point of view is a better solution than before is the fact that we could take part in the proceedings before The Hague tribunal, but that leaves the possibility for others to seek what we think they do not have any right, especially when it comes to your reasoning, in which it is said that this rule enables the prosecution of confirmed indictments not only of the court of state on whose territory a criminal offence has been committed or arrested, but of the court of the competent state which is willing and adequately prepared to take over such a case. We are afraid that we will not come to the situation where our citizens - because they are particularly interested in it, and this trial would be better than the pre-arranged and scheduled death penalty - to judge in Croatia or any of the other countries of the former Yugoslavia. This is where the political and legal debate is being held. As in the 1990s it was not divided into Serbia – who is for war and who is against war, because no normal man is ever for war, but was divided into those who are for their people, their country and the freedom of their people and their country and those who are against their people, against their country and against the freedom of their people and state. Neither is today a division of those who are for sanctioning war crimes and who are against sanctioning war crimes, for the simple reason that there is no one who opposes sanctioning war crimes. And why is that? For the simple reason that every normal man is for sanctioning war crimes as the most serious crime. It seems to me that there is no man in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who would be against such an idea. What we're different about today is again a similar question, so who is it that determines the war crimes committed? Some here have talked about Serbia as a wartime society, about something that we need to face, and up until a few months ago, they have told us about Serbia's denanciation, about how Serbia needs to go through a period of catharsis so that it can join the ranks of normal countries, as they say, of European civilized states. Now I have to say, as much as you ask, as much as we insist, no matter how loud we do it, no matter how much we argue on it, I have to say it's simply not true. I'll give you a heads-up on these media examples. As you've made stories about Srebrenica every time, ten days we've watched movies about Srebrenica, it's okay, but you've never shown us, you've never funded us, you've never done anything to show us a movie about Tarcino, where Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been tortured, you've never shown us a movie about Laura, where Serbs from Krajina or Avička Croatia have been tortured, however you will, you've never shown us, when we're already talking about Srebrenica, a crime from Podranje or Kravica. To ask you where the crime was and what kind of crime it was in the place of Digging, I guarantee you don't even know, because you were never interested in a hundred Serb clans, because you were only interested in how politically you could use and attack a Serb once and for all. I'm interested in when you did that movie about the terrible war crimes committed against Serbian soldiers, JNA soldiers in Slovenia, or just thinking about when, and how much you'll take to give land to Mercator, or about hiring your closest relatives with salaries of over 10,000 euros. You show that you are not interested in war crimes, and I will tell you how our soldiers died in Slovenia, since no one wanted to tell it publicly. More than 30 of them were killed by being held without water, without food in their barracks, and then when they got in a circle with no weapons to walk around, criminal sniper shots were killed, that they never opposed anything, that they didn't ask for anything. And did anyone answer for that, did you ever ask anyone for that, did you ask for that? You're not, because you're racing in every possible place to go to someone who will tell you that, well, we should be chasing Serbs, the only question of the future of these spaces is when we're going to arrest Karadzic, Mladic, four generals and I don't know who. Not four generals ordered the liquidation of soldiers in Slovenia, the liquidation, torture, torture and the killing of people in Tarcin, did not allow the same thing in the Popalics in Sarajevo, neither in Lora, or in Varazdin, nor in Bjelovar, nor in many other places. This is about Vukovar as a symbol of Serbian crimes. Oh, come on, in Vukovar, according to the list of the Croatian Communist Party, organised by the Croatian Utreba - even today there are here, I don't know why the minister isn't here right now to ask him how the spokesmans of certain special prosecutors, how they work for the Croatian intelligence service, and they will investigate war crimes - were equal to the number of Serbs and Croats, and a number of Serbs, along with Yugoslavs who are made, according to their list, and you know how counterfeited and faked. It was made as if Serbs had occupied, as if they had never lived in Vukovar, as if they had never lived in Baranja. By Josip Broz never belonged to Croatia, never through history, even in the branch of banovina, never belonged to Croatia, absolutely never. That's what none of you ever wanted to say, because you need to know that Serbs are criminals. That's the only question we're talking about. Then our unfortunate statesmen, various, false, go and apologize wherever they come, and each apologize for the first time, and he who apologizes for the tenth time and apologizes for the first time, that he may be more significant and greater than he who apologizes before him. They go from Sarajevo, Zagreb, Mostar, Split, Dubrovnik, there is nowhere to apologize, but never to go to Tarcin to pray over the shadows of Serb victims, never to say to Serbs, sorry we did nothing to pursue those who participated in the killing of Serbs and members of the Serb people. It's the only thing they don't think to do or do. It's not about making reciprocity, because crime is a crime, but it's amazing to me that crime is always, and when there is, and when it's gone, it's about to be committed by Serbs. It is never a crime to be made over a Serb people and we are here to discuss that Lazarevic, Pavkovic, should go to The Hague. They should go to The Hague for alleged crimes committed in Kosovo and Metohija, and do you have a film about little Milica Rakic from Batajnica for the previous four years, do you have a film about a child killed on a bridge in Varvarin, any, because more children were killed. Do you have anyone prosecuted for this war crime, I guess it's a war crime, and you don't know any crimes committed by Lazarevic and Pavkovic. You don't know, come out and say one. You say the officer's honor is such, let him surrender. That's not true. The Captain's ship is ordered by the officer's honor to remain last in the ship and together with the ship to sink, to remain with his fighters and soldiers. You want to separate people from your people, from your army, from your country, and they defend their country by the order of the state. In 20 or 30 years' time, whenever, 50 years' time, when someone attacks this country - since I see that you're taking the army off the border towards Croatia, someone's been looking for it, it occurred to him that Sarengrad is not at risk, he thinks it's all his, so put the army away, let's just have the police there -- when someone attacks that part of Serbia, the northern part of Serbia, or Vojvodina or any other part of Serbia, then you'll say, don't answer, don't let anyone answer, because any of them will come to you again, where we'll tell you, sorry, you're fools and crazy for defending the country. We are the smartest to be on the side of our enemies from the beginning, because we knew which side would be the winning side. Serbs were also attacked in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and defended themselves, but they appear to be guilty of defending themselves. Whoever is responsible for the crime of ethnic cleansing, the most severe type of war crime, the persecution of 500,000 people from their hearths, who answer for it, when someone apologized to our people for whether someone asked for an apology. And what our people don't go to you and say, apologize to these people. And not the other day, four days ago, the Ustashas are walking in Zadar, you saw them in black shirts, in Ustasha uniforms, with the flag you raise on the mast of Sanader and the others when they come to Belgrade, the Ustasha flag our soldiers here greet, the Ustasha anthem playing, and that's why we criticise the man who has a personal tattoo so he can't have, and we agree that this is the problem he's made because he has a tattoo on his shoulder, the man who never killed a Croat. It shows how poor our country is and what branches it's fallen to. That shows we don't have the state anymore. It's a matter of political factors here now, whether you're for the state or not. If you say, we have to do all this, then tell us that you're a galleater here, tell us that everything that comes to mind that you're going to do, that we don't have the country, that we don't have the state, and we don't have to choose. He can manage anyone on the globe, a clerk who will have five or ten thousand euros in salary and not worry at all. Then it all works out. It doesn't make any difference. To impose constant guilt, through individualization, making collective guilt to the Serbian people. That can't be allowed anymore. The president of Serbia said the other day -- I apologize on behalf of individuals who committed crimes. Well, why aren't you chasing these individuals? If you know which individuals committed the crimes, you're being prosecuted by individuals. If you don't know, then shut up. If you don't know, it means you're putting a collective mark of guilt on the Serbian people. Either shut up or say it, not say it -- I went to score points, I have broad shoulders, so I'm going to take back criticism from extremists in my country. They're not extremists. The common people can no longer endure this humiliation, the ordinary people want to say -- the people, we lost our hearths, the Serbs lived there for centuries, they killed us as they arrived, where they arrived, where they wanted to, judged us, bombed us, bombed our trains, shelled our television houses, destroyed everything. What we did, nothing, blamed each other. It's all your fault because you think otherwise, just because you're our political opponents. The people can't accept it anymore. You wrote charges against some you didn't like politically, you wrote charges against people just because they thought otherwise. There's Vojislav Seselj sitting in The Hague for two years. He doesn't even know why he's sitting. When the procedure is to begin, they invent something else to extend the indictment, so that for another two years, the investigation takes place, that he sits down for four years and that he doesn't have a trial. And I left him, you didn't have to put a black bag on him, you didn't have to shock the bombs, the guns, the machine guns, those criminals to get out of your van. Criminals, Surchins, get out and act like cops. The man left alone and what's left of it -- there's nothing, because he's guilty of the idea that Serbs live on their hearths in their homes. Now you will continue - is Serbia ready to face it or not? So, are you ready to face how many Serbs were killed in a Podrava, how many Serbs were expelled from Drvar, Grahova, Petrovec, Krupe, Sarajevo, Iliaša, Vogosce, Hadzic, Ilidze, every other place? Why no one is talking about it, but only what they're talking about is how and how to impose guilt on the Serbian people. We condemned those who participated in the murder of Marika Štefanc in the Krtkovci, this country condemned four men. Who were they condemning for such a criminal act as the Storm and the Flash, for that Ustasha villain Robert Padezin, if I'm not mistaken, who dropped his plane at 200 meters high and machined the refugee columns, killed more than 50 people? Did you ask anyone about something like that? Did you ask who was responsible for the attack on a column of refugees in Petrovac, which withdrew from the Serbian Krajina, where parents lost three sons? Or is there no crime for the Serbs when they were committed? It's only the Serbs. People can't listen to that anymore. Here, I can no longer listen to you on your various televisions, or read it in various newspapers -- only Serbs guilty, Serbian criminals, Serbs to answer. Oh, no, you don't. Those who have killed us, those who are the greatest villains and villains, they are good, they are civilized, they are Europeans, and Serbs are no longer good. People can't take it anymore. They're not our people murderers, they're not our people criminals. Those who are, say names, let them answer, let them go before the face of justice. What our people want, it's a little respect, a little dignity, wants to live proudly, to be what they are, to be free on their own land. That's what he wants and nothing else. That's what we're different about. In the end, those who have been saying all along that they are for sanctioning war crimes, and we are against God, that is, like, the second part of Serbia. Those who have always been for sanctioning war crimes that the Serbs have committed, because they know nothing about these war crimes, but they've been told on the outside that they should stand up for it. They argue not because they think it's some high moral principle, but because they turned it into the principle of robbery, kidnapping and theft here in Serbia. They can steal and kidnap as many as they want, because they are good, ideologically good and acceptable to those who participate in the Satanisation of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Today the political scene of Serbia is divided, it is true, in two parts. Mr. Stevanovic, don't go, come out and tell them how they robbed and what they did. And you say they robbed your Kragujevac, as well as in all of Serbia, as well as in every place in this country, what they left behind. The political scene of Serbia, it is true, is divided into two parts. One part is they're fake fighters to face the truth. You face the truth. Learn a little about where and how many Serbs were killed in this war, as it should be, and I see you well know where they are, how and how crimes have been committed against other peoples. Learn to have both sides, if your people are not already on whose side you should be. As far as the crime is concerned, you shouldn't be on anyone's side. Everyone needs to be investigated. These two sides are: one of yours, which is for putting up with everything, for the worst kind of colonial relationship you tell me, and I'm going to do worse than you said; you're telling me to somehow arrest him, and I'm not going to arrest him with handcuffs, but I'm going to put a black bag on his head; that's one part of Serbia, that part of Serbia that doesn't care about our country, that part of Serbia, that part of Serbia, that little part of Serbia, that's fortunately, not a big part, that doesn't care about the future of our children; and, another part of Serbia that opposes it, the other part of Serbia that wants a free country, that wants to have its own country, that wants to have a future of its children in this country. That first part of Serbia, the smaller part, it's all there is. For what? Because such false morality enables them to rob, steal, kidnap and thieving in every place, through football team uniforms, photocopiers, commissions in every place. That's why. It is not because of some of the higher European and European objectives, but because of the thieving. And the second part of Serbia that wants to fight corruption, robbery and thieving. I am convinced that now this second part of Serbia, which you have somehow put underground in every way and at all costs, will be spoken to at all times -- you cannot be Serbia, you cannot be Serbia, because there are you, exclusive representatives so-called. European and democratic ideas, so exclusive that you have 15 thighs from Calemegdan to Slavia, and you work in state and public enterprises. There are worse ones. I'm just waiting for someone to tell me it's not true, so I'll tell you the names of those high-ranking officials. By 15 boutiques from Calemegdan to the Serbia-Montenegro Football Federation. Such is the struggle for the moral cleansing of our people. They're morally cleansed from Calemegdan to the Football Federation, and we're having a lot of sense here how we're supposed to deal with our generals defending this country, defending your children as well as ours, as well as any other child in Serbia, regardless of their nationality, regardless of their religious status, regardless of political commitment. Now it's a condition-- arrest him, put a black bag on his head. No, but don't make other kids, don't make some cops take part in it. You are a very brave, strong, calculating, European, democratic civilization has given you this. Don't let them put black bags on those people's heads. You go and do it, so let me see if you have the courage, if you have the strength and the opportunity to do it. You do it, because you're very brave, very strong and very powerful, and let's see if you can do it or not. Serbia deserves change, Serbia deserves that this other Serbia's honesty, Serbia that wants to have a country, that we no longer humiliate this people, Serbia that wants to give little people a chance to be on its own and live freely in this country, that Serbia must and that Serbia wants to win. All of you. If the government wants to hear it, it's good, and if it doesn't, it'll be on the same path with those who are known only for black bags on their heads and for 15 butys from Calemegdan to the Serbia-Montenegro Football Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10474	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10475	Of course, I'm not going to comment on what the previous speaker said here, because whoever recognizes himself in the undefined addresses these messages were sent to, let him talk about it. I want to say a few sentences about the apology that the President of the Republic and the President of the Democratic Party gave me here a few days ago in Sarajevo. President Tadic made it clear that crimes, in an unfortunate decade that ended the 20th century, were all committed in the former Yugoslavia, that for these crimes everyone needed to apologize to each other, that crimes were not committed by the peoples, and I am deeply convinced that this was so, that crimes were committed by individuals. For those crimes, those who are guilty should answer. If the greatest people should be the first to apologize, then on behalf of the Serbian people, he apologized, expecting full right for other people's officials to apologize to Serbs for what was done to Serbs. Until individual guilt is determined as it is in this world, as it is, and how everyone who acknowledges the UN system must respect, there is no chance for us too many of us to defend the memory of the evil that has been done against our people in World War II and in the last decade. It will fall, if we do not respect the UN system, into oblivion both Jasenovac and Jadovno. We can't do that. We have to fight with legitimate means for legitimate goals and anyone who is guilty, if someone has another point of view should say that from here, and anyone who has committed war crimes should answer and be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10476	It has the advantage of replicas, MP Veroljub Stevanovic, has been mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10477	Mr. Wolf, you're a lawyer, and as far as I know, a good lawyer, maybe more than that. You know the guilt is proven. What you said to me can be said in some ways, and there are some things we need to examine, ugly things, even in Kragujevac. Until they're completely questioned, they're just the ugly things they're talking about. It's true we found Kragujevac in poor condition. It is true that the debt is only in the fund of three million euros, it is true that it is a house that resembles the glass industry that the elephant entered, but, Mr. Vukic, it is a process that lasts. And it's also true that we've heard great stories about donors who need to come and start big greenfield jobs, only you didn't have anywhere to come, because nothing, no decisions are prepared, no decisions, that's true. It is also true that they signed large contracts for mixed companies, some industrial zones for some industrial zones, but that there is nowhere to be found. It's all true, Mr. Wolfie, that's all. Let us prove it. We're going to prove that, I'm telling you, regardless of the threats, calls, phone calls and everything else, but the topic we're talking about today, and you've connected it to this other one, it's very serious, really serious. Please return to this very serious topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10478	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, please, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10479	I think the chairman is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to protect the National Assembly from the obvious violations of the Constitution, especially from the insults brought by the representatives of the President of the Republic. In fact, nowhere in the Constitution does the President of the Republic apologizes to anyone on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. What Boris Tadic did could have done on his behalf, on behalf of his political party. On behalf of the citizens, the Assembly can make a decision. In the name of the people judge the court, and if it still judges in the name of the people, I don't know. On behalf of the people and on behalf of the citizens, the President of the Republic shall not apologize. He could apologize to the people for, say, apologizing to, say, the parents of soldiers who served military time or soldiers who participated in the war; let's say, he could apologize to me, because he sent his advisors to serve military service in his cabinet and in his beds. Do you know that his one counsellor, I would have kept my mouth shut, rather than what he would have wanted to see in his uniform and boasting about his military service, that adviser of his from 0.00 to 24.00 hours serves in the Serbian presidency military deadline. The other one at Labus is serving a military term, or maybe that's not true. Let's check that out, too. I would have for which I would apologize to Serbian President Boris Tadic, and not on behalf of the people. He could apologize for tearing down our army like this, for not having an army of bread to eat, for being brought to our level that he cannot defend himself against the army of Kosovo and Metohija, so someone else has to help us. He'd have nothing to apologize for, Boris Tadic. He'd be fine if he apologized. First, to apologize for not clearing up with the crime in the DS. Because he did not clear up with DS crime in the Serbian Parliament, with the most difficult form of organised crime, led by Bojan Pajtic. He was the organizer. I'm convinced Boris Tadic was an instigator. Why would you steal votes if you were not persuaded by Boris Tadic? He would have had a reason to apologize for Boris Tadic and that public harassment when he ran into a house on Dedinj. You would. He'd have to apologize for lying in the campaign if he didn't want to live on Santa. He'd have to apologize for saying, Tomislav Nikolic ruins the government if he wins, he's that destroying element, and I, I co-operate with the government, I have co-habitation with the government; so now he's tearing down the government, and he's accusing me of not tearing it down. He'd have something to apologize for, Boris Tadic, just don't apologize for the war crimes. No, we're not done yet. We have yet to determine who committed war crimes and whose order, and particularly nowhere has it been found that Serbian citizens have committed war crimes. He made an individual, as he called it, we'll determine in court, and if he did, we'll determine in court. There are both there and there and there. (President: Time.) ) If you accuse Slobodan Milosevic of committing a war crime, if you accuse Serbia of committing a war crime, why are you silent about what Croatia did, what BiH did, what its presidents did. What are you doing hanging out with them? What are you buying that bloody stuff at Mercator? What are you bringing sellers, manufacturers, speculators from Croatia and Slovenia? What do you need that for in this beautiful country of ours? Did they want to go? Did they kill our children to get out of this country? What do you need it for now? For money, for dollars, for euros, for stamps, for something one of you will take. You'd have a lot to apologize for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10480	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10481	Unfortunately for you, the president of the Democratic Party is the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, and I cannot help you there. It is a fact that is one of the few points of light in Serbia's political life. First of all, since we have entered the controversy on constitutional jurisdiction, the President of the Republic represents the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. The president of Serbia, who was elected in the direct elections, beating you, Mr Nikolic, convincingly in those elections, has the right to represent citizens in a way that he finds best for the state's interest. Boris Tadic also does so for the benefit of all eight million Serbian citizens. Just a few details. When you say, Mr. Nikolic, that the military isn't in good shape, you took part in a government that, when it ended in the fall of 2000, left such a state of affairs in the military that there was no oil involved in tanks or incursions, so that the elemental security function of the military could be executed. Now you, Mr. Nikolic, are honoring anyone that for God's sake has brought down the country's battle will. You, Mr. Nikolic, have been complicit in the collapse, the greatest in history, the combat lives of the country and the potential of this country. As far as stealing votes, as you know, a court case is under way. The Democratic Party will fully, as it has done so far, respect and respect all the procedures that the competent judicial authorities in this country are doing. When you mention the event that took place ten days ago, Mr Nikolic, it is sad when the first person of a large parliamentary party, no matter how opposition-oriented the party I am in, manages to forget for a year and a half that in this country the president of the Democratic Party and then the Prime Minister died in the assassination, and that two or three days before that assassination, an event that was almost identical to what you are now talking about, and the attack on the column in which the President of the Republic was held. Also, Mr Nikolic, it is a disgrace that the first personality of a large parliamentary party is used for demagogue purposes by the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic, as well as other senior state officials, for whom security assessments exist that their lives are at stake, in a country in which the Prime Minister was brutally killed only a year and a half ago, must unfortunately live in facilities that allow competent state authorities to provide adequate protection. You do very well, Mr. Nikolic, you know, but as I can see, a pre-election campaign has begun and I see that you have changed your attitude that you will not destroy the government of Vojislav Kostunica, just 10 days after you have given her full support.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10482	The word has been given by the People's MP Alexander Vucic, you have the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10483	I had a moment ago, Mr. Chairman, but it doesn't matter. I have to admit I'm really unhappy, but it's not just me, now more than six-seven million Serbian citizens are absolutely unhappy that Boris Tadic is Serbia's president. That's true, Mr. Petrovic, and I completely agree with you. We are unhappy not because of us, but because of our children and the future of this country, because we now know who is leading this country, because we know exactly how you want to ruin this country. You're talking about the fact that someone had an impact on the fightover, about what happened in 2000. Yes, but no one has taken 40m euros or 20m euros, as you have taken in the last three years, as you are today stealing military and state property. That's the difference between you and me. You're talking about an apology. He needs to apologize, it's his jurisdiction and he did it on behalf of all of us. Don't make it any more on our behalf. Don't, because we won't, and it's not what the citizens of Serbia are asking. It is for Serbian citizens to demand new jobs, higher wages, higher pensions. That's what he promised in the election campaign. Of all that he has achieved nothing but himself a slightly higher salary and the fact that 250 euros were paid to get some off the bridge to honor him. Serbian citizens were not interested in jumping off a bridge on December 5th, but why there are no Serbs in Mostar, why their houses have been torn down and kidnapped, what about Serbian property. That's what the citizens of Serbia wanted to hear. When he said everyone should make an apology, since it's a piece of work, so to speak, or to apologize to the citizens of Serbia and others, since that is the case, what did he get in response from Sulejman Tihic? Did he ask him – when will you apologize for Tarchin, when you will apologize for the Podracija, when you will apologize for Tuzla, the Gradator, the Zenica, everything you have done to the Serbs. He didn't ask him, he didn't have to, he didn't want to, because everyone else was in his way except members of the Serbian people, except the citizens of Serbia. That's what we're different about. That convincing 6% victory of yours came thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because you all joined together to defeat Tomislav Nikolic and you brought along great evil to Serbia. He knew neither the people nor expected such evil to be done with Serbia. But why do you care? Because you only want one choice. Yes, you'd have more than 30 MPs, but, you know, you wouldn't have the president or the mayor of Belgrade, and you wouldn't have people in many places where you have today. That's why the elections are waiting for you at all levels and you're going to lose everything, because Serbia is finally trying to get rid of the thieves, criminals and those who led it to the beggar stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10484	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10485	Replica was challenged by Mr Petrovic here, replicating another MP, saying that Boris Tadic is the president of all Serbian citizens and that as such he can make statements on behalf of Serbian citizens. Then I ask a simple question, since I represent here the DSS parliamentary group representing the interests of Serbian citizens that it received in the December 2003 elections, is it possible, Mr Petrovic, that the president of Serbia, who represents the interests of Serbian citizens, speaks on their behalf? He can say what he was saying at your party's rally, when he was put on the led tour to run a campaign to bring down the Serbian government and to call new early parliamentary elections. Is that the job of the president of Serbia? It's not the job of the president of Serbia. Mr. Tadic has to figure out these two things: either he is the president of his party or he is the president of all Serbian citizens, regardless of who voted for him. He must be president and those Serbian citizens who voted for any party in this parliament, including those who did not participate in these elections and who did not vote. He must be the president of those Serbian citizens who disobeyed him and did not go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. And their president has to be. As far as he represents their interests, it also shows a response to these elections. Therefore, we will see these and the coming days that the Democratic Party will be implemented in all of this and it is not at all correct on your part, and it is not correct on Boris Tadic's part either. Let everyone do their job in this country. Mr Tadic's job, while the president of the state, elected by the citizens, is to represent their interest in the broadest sense of the word. The way he does it is not representing the interests of Serbian citizens, you must be assured.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10486	Mr. Petrovic has the advantage, he's mentioned. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I was mentioned too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10487	Take this session a little closer, but the dignity of the National Assembly has been re-injured. In this assembly, no one should accuse anyone of enjoying the murder of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, that he was looking forward to it, but you must not, because of the dignity of the Assembly and Serbia, to compare Djindjic and Tadic in any way. Tadic Djindjic is no match for nails. What happened that night, you compared it to Djindjic's assassination, not us. That is why we were restrained in our statements and said: something terrible happened a year and a half ago. We'll wait to see what happened tonight, but knowing Tadic and his election staff, I said, "This is just some old lady and campaign, but it can't go straight to the end." The other thing, the one you said about the military, it's a very dangerous thing. In 2000, the army was so weak, in your opinion, that it enjoyed the highest reputation among Serbian citizens, greater reputation than the Serbian Orthodox Church. That army was so weak that, as vice president of the federal government, I was allowed to put my son in the army in war. That army was so weak that, compared to this one, the response to the mobilization for the war had 95% of the calls. You now have a 50% response to military service, half of which requires civilian military service. You've introduced Serbs to civilian military service, to wash diapers in kindergartens. I'm for civilian service, let him serve in a barracks without a rifle. He's got a conscience complaint, he doesn't want a gun, he doesn't need a gun, he's got an ace, he's got a fool. There's nothing to object to. He's gonna make roads, defend the children from the flood, he's got something to do. And imagine what you've brought in. He washes the diapers when peace, when someone attacks us, the war breaks out, and he says, "I'm sorry, if it's a washing diaper, I'll answer it, and whoever's carrying the gun now let him go to war." What kind of citizens of category B do we make? One more thing. That army you've now built has been pulled off the border. The military is no longer guarding the state, and it is housed around the Serbian presidency building to guard Serbia's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10488	People's MP Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10489	Mr Nikolic, the critical evenings you said nothing but abstention or caution, but you asked – and what does the President of the Republic do at nine o'clock in the middle of Belgrade. It was your first reaction, someone who was so concerned about the state of public life and political opportunities in the country where the Prime Minister was killed a year ago. The withdrawal of the army from the borders, Mr Nikolic, is, as you know very well, part of the creation of conditions that the state could enter the EU, because in all civilised Europe, police are guarding borders, but that is the thing to be answered by Mr Aligrudic and refers to the government's position, not to the position of the President of the Republic. About Mr. Aligrudic, in the end, after he began to promote his great concern when I plowed with the SRS and transparently showed his great political affection for Serbian radicals, but it is again the DSS issue, not mine, and I will no longer talk about Mr. Aligrudic. Let me finish with something Mr. Wolfie said here. Where are the Serbs from Mostar? Serbs from Mostar, as well as 650,000 refugees, Mr. Vukic, have escaped because of a catastrophic policy in which you participated during the 1990s and unfortunately were forced to leave their homes, their homes. And you, Mr. Wolfie, would have that policy re-established. Well, we don't have anywhere to run anymore, we don't have to stay away, and that's why it's necessary for both the government and the president, but also for the opposition parties to take care of the country's interests, and for them to run a policy that the country must introduce into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10490	The Minister of Justice has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10491	I really didn't participate in these political outwittings, but here are two false things, and that's the burden of the government. One is that the government decides on something, and Mr Petrovic knows very well that they are doing it at the level of the federal community of Serbia-Montenegro, not the government. First, we have to decide there, because the Serbian government could not decide whether there will be police or military at the borders of Montenegro towards Albania. You know that well. That's one lie I didn't want to answer for, but after this other lie, I have to. It is said here that the only bright spot on Serbia's political scene, Boris Tadic, is as president of the state. I must say that happiness, by what this government is doing, and there are gods and support in this House, so we are accomplishing what it takes for this country to function and live. If it were true what you claim to be the only bright spot, believe me, Serbia would be in deep darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10492	I set a break until 3:15 p.m., with the first right to the replica of Mr. Vukic, so Mr. Angelkovic after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10493	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. There are 154 MPs present on the official record. Please determine the quorum before continuing. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have a quorum to work with. We stopped by the replica Mr. Alexander Vukitch was looking for. Did you stay at the replica? Yeah. ) Here you are, a replica, then a folk MP, Bosko Ristic, and let the MP Zoran Krasic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10494	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have heard from Mr Petrovic what we have been listening to for a decade. Mr Petrovic, among other things, says that there are no Serbs in Mostar, the good part is you and your policy from that period. I don't know what policy you mean. The SRS was the only political party in Serbia that was against the Vens-Oven plan, as well as the entire Serbian people in Republika Srpska. Immediately afterwards, a much better Contact Group plan came, divided into 49:51, not 42:58 per cent of the territory, with a direct connection to Bosnia Krajina, the then existing Republika Srpska Krajina, etc. I don't know if he means that policy, which we said Serbs have the right to live where they were born, where their property, where their fatherland is, is to keep what belongs to them by all the laws of the world. I have to say, it's nothing new. That's what we learned, that's what we used to do, as well as fuel for tanks. I don't know about tanks, but I'm asking you about planes, how many flights today have pilots in the SCG Army fuel, one a month or one in two months. I don't know who's responsible for this situation and who was the Minister of Defence of the Yugoslav Army, or the SCG Army. I don't want to get into some kind of pointless discussion with DS representatives about who he is and what he's done in the past. We have only a few months from the presidential election where Mr Tadic was elected president of Serbia. Did he keep any of his promises? Is it a single word he said to Serbian citizens that he would do so? Did Serbian citizens get anything from that? Are they feeling better today? Are they feeling better today? Do they have new jobs? Do they have bigger salaries, bigger pensions? Is their standard of living higher? Do they look more carefreely at the future, not their own, but their own children, first of all? No, they're just worse, they're confused, they don't know what to believe. One day he's against going to KIM elections, one day he's in. One day it's about to bring down the government, the next day it's about to build, not take down. On the third day, he would have given new jobs, but he had no authority and no authority, as if he didn't know it in the election campaign. Every day something new, and what's most important, is how and how you should present yourself in the best light. The other day, "Blic" published, you saw a report, in which they say -- received the president of the Republic part of Belgrade University students and led them around the presidency building, showing what the presidency building looks like. It's not our president's tourist guide or at least it shouldn't be a tourist guide. (President: Time. ) It is an honorable profession, but a tourist guide gets his salary for a job he does. This is the president of Serbia. His job description doesn't say that he should and that he is a tourist guide. Serbia needs a president who will lead the interests of citizens of Serbia, man and people who will worry about the key problems of Serbian citizens, about the key problems of our people west of Drina and Danube, not worry about it... (President: Time, second time.) )......................................................................................................... How they're going to end up, Mr. President, how they're going to like the citizens and continue to run the campaign. To inform you, the campaign for the president of Serbia is over and on the side that he should not perform another public function under Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and everyone else is concerned with the work of the President of the Republic. He's particularly involved in the work of the president of the DS, and it seems to be the most important job he's doing right now, as if he's the only one. Serbia needs changes, fighting corruption, a new economic and social programme. That is why the SRS has launched a new economic and social programme for the next government of the Republic of Serbia. We will offer citizens a way out of the crisis, we will offer a fierce fight against corruption, and I am confident that this will come to the voter's great support in Serbia... (President: Thank you...) ) Let the president look a little bit at those who want to think about the people, who want to think about the citizens of Serbia, at least for a moment when he is at work and when he is playing Serbian President to think about it rather than himself. I'm sure we're all going to be much better, and maybe a little better, because this is how she went into a terrible fall, and I'm afraid there won't be a third or fourth party in power until the election... (President: It's okay, thank you... )......................................................................................................... And of course you know that Serbian radicals will be convincing first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10495	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic and it is the last speaker on the list of speakers today on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10496	Because of the public and MPs who are prone to oblivion, we must remind ourselves a little that this law passed the DOS last year, unanimously; regardless of the internal conflicts and arguments, everyone voted in favour of the law. The SRS was against the adoption of such a special law under a simple law that in the existing legal system and about the justice system there are solutions, there are provisions to organise trials in the Republic of Serbia for this type of crime. However, that ununited DOS needed one such law, because at the time it was one fashion to set up special courts, special prosecutors, all something special, probably because the outgoing government had the burden of four generals, and in every way possible tried to escalate that obligation, which it had praised since 2001, that this was the ultimate range of democracy and some catharsis that we were subject to or should be exposed to. And today, when this change of law is proposed, the situation is turning around. The main supporters of the law are now reportedly objecting, and the SRS is still standing at its starting and only right point of view, that we do not need such a law. Since it is obvious that we in Serbia must divide into those who are fans of the UN tribunal, it is a whole set of NGOs that exist, among other things, to collect some building for the competition, how to spit on Serbia and Serbs. And we have those who try some facts, some standards and rules of international law to show that the UN tribunal must not exist in this form and in this form. In order to avoid any major delusions, I must tell you that in 1993, the February resolution of the Security Council was ordered by the Secretary-General to consider the possibility of the existence and establishment of such a court. Seventy-eight of the most prominent international criminal law and international public law theorists in the United States have voiced the view that one such court should not be formed by head 7. The Charter of the United Nations. That attitude was held by the U.S. until the moment someone invented the Levinski affair. The affair was invented by a foreign intelligence service, with the aim that the lady, who led the U.S. foreign policy at the time, was the only one in the United States to establish ad hoc court, achieve success; he bowed down to Clinton and on May 25, 1993, on the birthday of beloved President Tito, therefore, loved by those who followed his trail, a resolution was reached. But in a report by the Secretary-General, which included some proposal for that 30-member statute and some foolishly designed members, the findings of Butros Galli stated that there is no legal basis for the establishment of such a court. So based on Chapter 7. The UN Charter and to overcome this, given that ten states gave an opinion on the draft of such an act and they all pleaded negatively, which means that only political force or rape was established. Resolution 827 brought the Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal to the persons who have committed serious violations of international humanitarian law in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. In some silly explanation, they stated that the tribunal ad hoc percent as an auxiliary body in Article 29. The Security Council Charter and all possible rules have been broken and it is a matter of strangerity, Butros Galli in his report even cited the right way to form an international court, which is a resolution by the General Assembly or a special holding of an international conference at which such an international court would be formed through an international contract. This, however, was done in July 27th in Rome, when the Roman Statute and miracles were adopted, the only opponent of the formation and adoption of the Roman Statute was Theodor Meron, a representative of the United States at the international conference. By the way, a man who was born in Poland in the 1930s, lived and worked in Israel by 1984, was Israeli Minister in Canada, Israeli Minister in the Security Council, and is now President of the International Criminal Court on behalf of the United States. So, all those who are thinking about whether the UN tribunal can exist and whether it's a legal and political creation, I'm telling you it's even a political freak. None of the major international criminal rights theorists support it, not counting our expert bloc, such as Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Natasa Kandic, Vojin Dimitrijevic, is no longer the Fatic, he was once a fan, but he is not there, he does not answer, no more is mentioned. Since such things are, well, I can't mention everything, probably this Sonja Biserko, but we're in a political scene of Serbia facing one big problem, which is that love syndrome. He would bend down to the next one, I'll use one name, but without the intention of referring specifically to that man, and that's possible – Canak syndrome. There are many such people who are absolutely certain that everything they do and what they say is causing the revolution of the citizens of Serbia, because it is in conflict with mental health, with some sound logic, not to say that it is in conflict with the Constitution and other things. With protagonists, such attitudes are psychologically satisfying that the people curse him for it, therefore, it is so much bigger that they agree and beat stupidity, because they enjoy being haunted by the people, swearing, and causing revolt and people shutting down TV when they see it. It's about very intelligent but probably sick people, who find one psychological pleasure in cursing their mother, what people turn off TV, etc. It's our daily life. So we have a situation that during this election campaign to elect the President of the Republic, therefore, one candidate says, of course, the other candidates will be happy that I will be elected President of the Republic, because I am the only guarantee that all Serbs who are accused will be tried here will not be delivered to The Hague. I think so, at least, Mr. Petrovic, that's what you said on that show on the TV Bridge. Mr. Tadic guarantees, if he is elected, there will be trials here. Don't lie to the devil, the elections are over, he runs to America, when he comes back, he forgets, total amnesia. Now he's mad that they don't deliver. I must tell you that there are no provisions in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the delivery of our citizens abroad. Someone says, our international obligation. Let's see how these obligations are met by other countries, because when Germany passed a law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it was brought about by Dusan Tadic and their minister of justice in their parliament came out and said, please, there is no confusion, we are passing this law, but it does not apply to the citizens of Germany, not only to these other citizens. We were just listening here to say, presumption of innocence, that's some kind of court term. It's a fundamental human right, please, and who doesn't know that it's a fundamental human right, there's no need, there's nothing to look for in this building, disabling the public. No, we need mental manipulation to get out of this room, mental, media and all the other pranks. It has to be thrown out, as someone once told us, says, to me, patriotism is that I can travel abroad. Where he found it in the encyclopedia to write it, he doesn't know what it is, and everybody listens to some personal desires, some personal observations of some people, and people are aware that it doesn't have that meaning, but it's being said, because when it goes through these democratic media, unclassified, unrelated, independent, and all Soroshi, then it's no wonder we can hear in some citizens that the maltenes support their damage. That's our reality. So the Hague tribunal shouldn't exist. The Hague tribunal should be destroyed as the Carthage, because it is a dangerous precedent. The Statute has 30 and some members, judges themselves bring their own rules of procedure and evidence, the material right does not exist, the material right is a hybrid, a surrogate, located in four arbitrary members and that part of the International Court of Justice, and they are called a search bigger and more appeal, interpreting it at will, and being the saddest thing, as a source of international ordinary law, are not the Hague and Geneva conventions, but even some judgments of the Ninberg and military court in Tokyo, when the rights were not even when the law and the court formed the power of the winner. In The Hague, he was not created by the will of a victory force, because in these armed conflicts, in this civil war, in this situation where one country was destroyed on the outside, not on the inside, it didn't fall apart, but someone came from the inside, ordered, and conveniently for the Quislings there in this space, so one state was torn apart, and now in the image of some judges, almost all of them were blackmailed, one prosecutor, extremely troublesome, doesn't deserve to mention her name here, and 1,100 employees in her prosecution with criminal biography, where they were all conditioned to do these devastations that do these perversions. All of this is added to this fifth column of mercenaries. When you pass that law on NGOs, to break up, one man has 60 NGOs, he's just a simple money-transmission that is channeled into subversive work by individuals. Unfortunately, that happens, that's our reality. The trials need to be conducted here, all possible evidence should be accepted, whether the court will give these evidence, it's a matter of judicial proceedings, of conviction and of the facts that the court is facing, and there's no need for us to prejudge anything. Our experience -- there have been some crimes proceedings, led by courts of general jurisdiction. It turns out our courts know how to do that, that they can judge. However, it should also be borne in mind that The Hague tribunal is in conflict with that court across the street, which was formed under the Roman Statute, which is also in The Hague. It's that constant court. I must remind you that those who swear most to democracy and human rights did not surrender instruments on the ratification of this Roman statute and offered better-than-better contracts to establish immunity for their soldiers around the world. Can anyone tell me the difference between Vukovar and Fallujah, by buildings, by the number of victims, by the military, etc.? Find an answer to that question, and then tell me if The Hague is a court that can exist on the basis of international law, or whether it's the result of the political desire of those who broke up the former SFRY, so that we don't be responsible for what happened to this people, and some of them here serve to fight us and that, practically, the victim becomes an aggressor. In addition to this, it may best serve you the following fact: the members of the 5-8 Roman Statute of the International Court of War Crimes are given the elements and entities of war crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity. A new act was introduced: aggression. The entities of these crimes will be established by the State of the signatories of the Roman Statute, based on an agreement that should be subsequently reached. As far as the act of aggression is concerned, there is no criminal act yet, since aggression as a crime is not the result of an international contract, but of a resolution by the General Assembly. These facts show you that an absolutely illegal trial is being conducted in The Hague. Then you should not be surprised that everything that is most brilliant in international criminal law, experts of international public law, all dispute the possibility of the UN tribunal. Only in Serbia are the fans of the UN tribunal. I can understand that they have some political, although that's not their political interest, because they don't have any politics, they don't have ideology. I can imagine they're glad, because they're focusing on one, two, three, five, ten people and that hate is the condition of their existence on a political scene, but I can't understand that they're trampling over what they're always calling for, and that's democracy, respect for their rights and human rights. They are able to forget every human right and, of course, have never raised their voice in The Hague that people are sitting in custody and that detention is not limited. In all countries, the most common, where democracy is at the lowest possible stage, when someone is being held in custody because it is necessary to conduct a criminal procedure, this detention is limited by a month, three months, with the possibility of extensions, etc. The Hague is the only place where detention literally means maintaining the sentence indefinitely. All those who celebrate The Hague, who believe it is an international obligation, look in the mirror, find out where that member is, where that international document is, and let those people whose profession is international criminal and international public law, see why they think The Hague needs it. If you succeed in what you're up to, to transfer these trials here, and that the Hague tribunal is shut down as soon as possible, it's not a success, it's an attempt to establish something fundamental that everyone in the world sees. Why is there no tribunal for Iraq, why is there no tribunal for Afghanistan, why is there no tribunal for Vietnam? He was the only subject of one lieutenant, so he was first punished for 20 years, so his appeal was passed for ten years, and he kept his sentence under house arrest at a military base, and then, after Nixon, he was even pardoned. There was no crime, and he killed 180 people in a village in Vietnam. It's a look at war crimes, it's a look at these crimes. In our criminal law, there is a head of XVI Crime against humanity and international law. All crimes that could be tried and which would be serious violations of international humanitarian law are covered. There's no interference in organising a trial. There's something called this command responsibility, but not this distorted command responsibility. I would tell the Hague tribunal's fans to read some of those verdicts in The Hague, so let them answer the question of how it is possible for a Serb from the Key to be an aggressor in the Key. How can he be an aggressor, how is it possible to form a joint criminal enterprise for a corner of the street, for this hill, for this village, for this republic? I would recommend that the UN tribunal fans take a look, read item 11 in almost all charges against Serbs, and try to define who the participants are in the joint criminal enterprise. Be assured that you will find yourself on that list, because in addition to the part where the people representing the country's leadership are named and last name, and there were leaderships based on the electoral will of the citizens of this republic, there are also members of JNA, territorial defence, participants in public and political life in the Republic of Serbia. Imagine, even there is Boris Tadic, and Vuk Draskovic, and Biserko, and Kandic, and Vojin Dimitrijevic, who is driving free in Belgrade, and all other opponents of the Serb people. It's just a matter of days before you get your turn, 'cause it's a bit crowded right now. I'm ordering those who wrote charges against Serbs and those who collected evidence, they made a mistake, they got caught up in a dead end. I am telling the citizens of Serbia - if something bad happens for the citizens of Serbia in The Hague, if something bad happens for the citizens of Serbia, go to these UN tribunal fans and ask them to pay for part of the damage they are to pay on your behalf. That's the right answer to our question. So we split up. According to polls, there are 70% of us who believe the UN tribunal should not exist. In those 30%, not all of them are fans of the UN tribunal. There are some people who only seem to root for that side, but they are the main ones who couldn't make extra income in a ten-year period, whose giro-accounts with abroad were not able to be large human rights representatives, those who were barely elected as professors of law school, those who were registered as spies who had ruined the state, who represented the state, so they filed one report, and the report was second, and what they were doing there. That's them. Come on, open up those files, but keep an eye out, there you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10497	Thank you for this brief statement of the law. Mr. Petrovic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10498	Since Mr Krasic mentioned me by name, personally, as well as by the president of the DS, which is less important, because you do not have, Mr Krasic, a good memory. And I didn't say that in the event of such or such an outcome in the elections, they would be tried in Belgrade for war crimes, but that the possibility of that happening would increase. You, Mr. Crassus, hear what suits you and are inclined to twist the truth. The more important reason for my replica, Mr. Krasic, is that you called the president of the state an opponent of the Serb people. I don't think you, Mr. Krasic, are an opponent of the Serbian people. You run a pest policy for the Serbian people. It's probably your persuasion, but about your convictions here, I can take it from this pay phone. Even though I think you have a policy that causes, once again, damage to the interests of each of eight million Serbian citizens, I don't think you're an opponent of the Serbian people by your intimate and subjective attitude, but objectively, as it has caused damage to the interests of the state and people in the past ten years, in those last ten years of the 20th century, so this policy, Mr. Krasic, is now causing damage to each of the eight million citizens' interests. Thank you. This was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10499	I know it was a replica. One moment, Mr. Crassy. I ask all MPs, please give up. It was in one and the other exhibiting the basis of my guilt that I did not warn that the political views of the MPs were characterized, and most normally, that they were there and that they were different, that they were characterized as enmity towards the state. Please give it up, and if there's anything else in the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. It's time to go back to the law, that's our basic job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10500	You know, Mr. President, that I'm always half-hearted with attitudes, not with people. I'm forced not to notice, but I have to respond to a political stance, since I'm leading some pest policy, which I've interpreted as referring to some of my political views. All I have to do is, if I help the gentleman, clear up a few things. We were on a TV show, and you said clearly, if Tadic wins the elections, there will be no trial in The Hague, but the Serbs will be tried in Serbia, in front of our courts. I've supported you in this, and I don't know why you're mad at me, and I'm looking at my vermin for supporting you, and I don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10501	It's okay, it's not the Rules of Procedure, you'll compare the footage, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10502	President, I didn't insult anyone, I'm just saying what it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10503	No, you've already called the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10504	That's a 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10505	It's okay, you've corrected the wrong interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10506	President, just a few more things, you don't need to interrupt me, it's a nice discussion, everything within the limits of tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10508	Mr. Petrovic, I can't solve the DS problem. I can't solve these problems. Boris Tadic, for example, invites Divac and says, back me up for the president of the Republic, arrange with him on this, and Aca Vlahovic comes out and it breaks down. Do you communicate with each other? Boris Tadic says, when there is a motion for my recall, the DS has in the Assembly to vote to join the agenda, and you come here and vote against. You know, I can't calm you down. You handle it in your party. If you have any personnel problems, say so, we'll make a conference to solve these personnel problems. While he was the secretary of defense, the chief advisor was a man who did not serve the army, and now the chief man who did not serve the army. There's something wrong. I don't think it's an insult to say it's wrong. That's the facts. Now let's pretend we don't see those facts, but the people see those facts. We can't get past the people. We're national representatives. Stop us on the street and grab your sleeve and say, "Do you tell that Tadic that that's not the case?" He promised one thing, and now the other one's working. I will represent all citizens of Serbia, and now it says, no, just a democratic bloc, etc. Don't be angry if we point out, repeat the facts or repeat any of your views. You're mad at yourself, not at the quote, at whoever's quoting it. If you really think I'm a vermin for DS, I probably am. I told you, I was appointed the liquidator of the DS. Don't expect me to be a sacred Sava for the Democratic Party, I can't reconcile you, I don't want to reconcile you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10509	Sure, go ahead. So, please, this is now the replica of Mr Petrovic, and once again I appeal to the MPs, let's do what our job is to do, to talk about the law, to exchange political views, and do not share the incorrect data. You're not assigned to the liquidator of the DS, I don't have that information. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10510	Mr. President, there is no need for you to defend the DS from Mr. Krasic, because there is no danger threatening DS from Mr. Krasic. I'd like to draw your attention to whether or not there are injuries to the Rules of Procedure that are actually being advertised and shown and exposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10511	You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10512	It's already a matter of your style and, as well as much more important issues, history, Mr. President, will judge it, and it doesn't matter what we talk about. Mr. Krassic, I have a replica of what you're saying again. Of course I've come out to rephrase because you have spoken offensively about the President of the Republic. It's also a matter of your character and your experience of political and public life. Your policy, Mr Krasic, which you promote and implement, is harmful because you have been here 25 minutes to convince the citizens of Serbia, not the MPs, because they have their views, that Serbia should not be in the UN system. It doesn't matter what the Security Council has passed a resolution establishing even the UN tribunal. In that Security Council, Russia and China sit, Mr Krasic, and neither the Russians nor the Chinese voted against that decision, which, so important, affects our misfortune, affects public and political life in Serbia. That, Mr. Krasic, is a pest policy, in my view of things. You and I are very different, and there can't be any help.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10513	Thank you. There's no replica on the replica. Mr. Petrovic, I accept your warning and I tried to warn both speakers that they had violated the Rules of Procedure. It's possible that you don't consider it harsh enough, but that warning remains. Only a political stance has been expressed and there is no basis for replicating further. Be kind and accept it. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, of course. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10514	I thought I'd warn you, Mr. President, that you're taking a little care of the dignity of the Assembly, and where is the right of the DS representative to speak with enthusiasm about Russia and China? How come this sudden love of Russia and China, Mr Petrovic, is what authority these are for you. You forgot to turn your head that way. For you, there has been no Russia and China since you came to power, and I wish you'd valued the attitudes of Russia and China, and we wouldn't be in the mud we're in right now. So when it was the worst, when you spit on us for Russia and China, now you keep your mouth shut about Russia and China. So you have the right to express your views here, and you can talk about what the Germans think about you, what the English, the Americans think, and you're not powerful for the French, it's going to be better for those of the DSS, they're going to explain the French's views. Russia, China, India, Belarus, Ukraine, Iraq, the Arab world, the African world, South America, you don't mention. These are for you people who don't deserve your attention. These are countries that deserve our cooperation. These are the states that could get us out of all this, and you turned your back on them. So when you want to warn us about something, don't give us Russian attitudes. And if Russia were relevant to DS, then Mr Putin would have received DS President Boris Tadic when he was in Russia. The fact that Boris Tadic asked to be accepted by the president of Russia, and this one said I would not accept you while you are president of the DS, is what you should think about in the party. Just please, as I was representing the views that we should cooperate intensively with Russia, you laughed and yelled, you couldn't live more in the O.R. than you. Now that the cat has come to the door, now that those of the EU have taken us away for another 10 years from the EU, you are now telling us something about Russia. I've been warning you here for four years. Don't bring these laws into line with EU law. Especially not these financial ones, because we don't have any of that. If our laws are identical to the laws that apply to the EU, why would that capital come here? In such a restless, unstable country to enter capital and be under the same conditions as in Germany? Here you have to give the benefits, you have to give the benefits. What is our convenience and convenience? Russia. The German can't build a factory and export to Russia. Yeah, but that's 30% more expensive than getting out of here. I'd sit still, I know Mr. Secretary has a lot of business than this debate, but just please hold back. Tell everyone about the radicals, just don't mention Russia. Not you. And when you mention it, it's as negative as it has been, because that's your attitude towards Russia. That positive rusophilism, co-operation with Russia, leave it to us, and eventually we'll come to power to show you how to co-operate with Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10515	The breach of the Rules of Procedure referred to me. I will certainly defend the dignity of the Assembly, but in the last half-hour, I have not responded when the inaccuracies and evaluations were made for the institutions of our country, at any time when other countries were qualified and in that sense I hope that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure. If you want the replica briefly. If it doesn't end, I'm putting Mr Krasic in an unequal position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10516	Again, Mr. President, I don't know what kind of damage the Rules of Procedure was.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10517	I was asked not to allow a violation of the dignity of the congregation, and I provided an explanation that I did not do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10518	It's going back to your conscience, Mr. President, and I don't want to go any further on that. What I mean is, Mr Nikolic, Russia is an important country for Serbia and the president has been visiting Russia for this reason. Russia has been and will be an important country for Serbia, but I don't know what it would take for you, Mr Nikolic, to panic by mentioning here certain decisions Russian diplomacy and the Russian state made. Russia and China took a position at the Security Council vote that allowed the UN tribunal to adopt a resolution that formed the UN tribunal, and that is correct. So, we're talking about facts, and the disturbance that your position on any side of the world will be rocking because of the views and policies of the Democratic Party, of course, is completely unfounded. Once again, the Democratic Party fully understands the importance of co-operation with Russia, and that will be state policy, and nothing changes that at the most important state goal Serbia-Montenegro has at the moment, and that is that they become members of the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10519	Since this debate threatens to prevent, as did two days ago, the Assembly from doing its job and that citizens in cities get their money as soon as possible, I am taking a break under Article 94(2), ten minutes, to carry out consultations on whether this debate can be interrupted, and if not, immediately after the end of the break, the word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic. [[After breaks – 16.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. The consultations have been completed. Thank you. Please Members to determine the quorum to insert their identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I would like to thank Mr. Krasic after the consultations have been carried out. Since there is no longer a order of registered MPs, I ask if they want a word, before concluding a principled search, presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. The president of the DS parliamentary group, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10521	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the DS will support the bill's amendment, because amendments to the law create procedural assumptions and criminal-processing instruments for persons indicted before the UN tribunal when opportunities and opportunities are acquired, which are primarily political, to be tried in Serbia. According to the DS, it is a fundamental shift that should follow in the process of change in Serbia. The capacity of our judiciary - and this creates, as I said, the assumptions that such trials have ever taken place, the trials that have begun before the tribunal - to determine the facts and to state what is right in such cases, which, on the charge, are qualified as the most serious crimes, against humanity, against war law, will represent a sure sign that our country is capable of qualified in the order of civilised European states. It is very important to keep in mind always what needs to be done in the political sphere, so that as a state we can come to our judicial institutions, such processes take place, that such cases are entrusted from the court in The Hague to our judiciary. It is necessary to respect international law, it is necessary to respect internal law and, most importantly, to have a clear view that this is a moral basis for our society. In the debate so far, it has been said several times that the UN Security Council has made a decision that this judicial institution and the prosecution in its composition are being created, that the UN tribunal's statute and what it is in any case unequivocal, which is the fact that this tribunal is part of the UN order. After a long time, in the fall of 2000, Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro returned to the UN system, a system of global policy organisation outside which cannot be a country that intends to enable its citizens to live what they deserve in the 21st century, amid the European continent. The lack of respect for international obligations stemming from UN decisions puts 8 million citizens in danger of rapidly approaching the standard of life that citizens have in Europe, not only in Western Europe, but citizens in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, on the whole European continent, except for this small unfortunate part of Southeast Europe, in which we ourselves are. I warn, and there is a minister representing the government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are getting very clear signals in the last ten days that the state is not meeting the obligations arising from UN decisions. The High Force Ambassador, who, as far as we know, advocated that a number of cases led before The Hague tribunal were transferred and that persons on these charges were tried in Belgrade, made it clear a few days ago that we had no more support for this great force for this policy. Even a relatively relatived view that the UN tribunal should complete its operation in 2008 or 2009 and the duration of the UN tribunal's work is fully linked to the readiness of Serbia's state, the government of the Republic of Serbia to fulfil its international obligations. On the other hand, part of Serbia's internal legal system is the Law on Co-operation, which regulates co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and under that law there is a obligation for all authorities to act in accordance with their jurisdiction and to comply with the provisions of the law. It would be good if Minister Stojkovic here told us whether there are really cases in which the courts have issued orders to the MUP or who is already in charge in this country for the persons indicted before the tribunal and are available to the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to carry out adequate procedures. What I particularly want to underline is that there are millions of people living in Serbia today without a job. It takes several tens of billions of euros to invest, foreign and domestic, in order for Serbian citizens to come to the opportunity to establish a working relationship and raise their existence to a higher level. It is not possible to do so unless Serbia is a country that is respected in international relations. It is not possible to have high credibility in international relations unless we fulfil our international obligations, especially those arising from the UN Charter. And for that, in the very end, guilt for crimes can only be individual. Serbs as a people and as a nation are not responsible for a policy that was led in this country in the 1990s, but in order to have a normal public life and to have a healthy political life in Serbia, it is necessary to determine who is, when and whether he has committed war crimes. In the current system of relations, The Hague tribunal, or the tribunal's prosecution, has been authorised by the UN to suspect individuals of such crimes on their burden. In order for Serbia to join the EU quickly, it is necessary to determine as soon as possible whether these doubts and accusations are correct or not. To come to such a situation, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without any reservation, to carry out its international obligations. This is the way for Serbia to become a country where citizens have the opportunity to live the way the Greeks and Portuguese, English and Irish live, Lithuanians, Estonians, Czechs and anyone in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10522	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Since this amendment has been adopted by a representative of the promoters and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. Since this amendment has been adopted by a representative of the promoters and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Since this amendment has been adopted by a representative of the promoters and the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nemanja Sarovic tabled an amendment proposing that Article 7a be added after article 7. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10523	With this amendment, we wanted to introduce automation and prevent our war crimes prosecutor from, through the President of the Republic, making contact with abroad an unpreparedness. He'd prefer to be tried in The Hague, not with us. Minister, I'd like to draw your attention that you have such a war crimes prosecutor. We didn't choose him, we chose him DOS. If we had chosen him, he would have come to the SRS to make a deal with us. He went to the President of the Republic and to the DS to negotiate, because he has a completely different view, he thinks he should take the salary and judge The Hague. That's what we wanted to draw your attention to and turn it off with this automation as a possible cause of obstruction. I must point out that the UN tribunal's resolution only in some strange interpretation could mean that it was adopted in the statutes. The statute was not particularly voted on. If there was a vote on that statute, I must say that many who were against that resolution, or against the statutes, were abstained or were not present when the resolution was voted. I must point out that the UN tribunal was founded as a measure, an instrument for establishing peace in BiH. Russia has not funded The Hague tribunal for several years, as it believes the UN tribunal has exceeded its original authority, that it has no jurisdiction over the events at KIM. It's because of these new friends with the Russians, to be clear, because they misread their will. As to whether Serbia is part of the international order, it is, it is the founder of the UN. It was only suspended, at the end of 2000, and there was no need to apply for reception, but only to remove the suspension. Because these experts are talking about knowing exactly what's going on. As for this concern as long as the Hague tribunal lasts, the real question is whether it should exist at all, how long it will last no one knows it, but it will probably go out quickly because it bothers everyone, the founders, the most notorious founders, and even the chief financier, that Soros, but no one wants to see it, he insists on pushing a story about The Hague tribunal. As far as our behaviour and our relationship are concerned, we should act and have a relationship with The Hague tribunal just as much as America has with the ongoing war crimes court, because what they do is democratic, with respect for human rights and taking care of its citizens, so that we need to learn to take care of our citizens and determine the dimension of that co-operation in accordance with our interests. But, Minister, I expect you to inform us about the state's attorney, who abolished the Supreme Court's verdict and returned to the District Court for NATO aggression and criminal responsibility of those 15 people, and who is the prosecutor who dropped the prosecution, and thus legalized this kissing with Solana, which came before the indictment was dropped. I don't know, if we're fighting war crimes and you want to convince us it's a real and proper fight, we agree, but let that process be renewed. That crime doesn't go out of date. He has to argue, the actors of this crime have to take responsibility. I just hope that those criminals kissing someone here in the coat of state officials didn't amnesty them in front of the families of the dead in Serbia. So that automation should exist and that's why we submitted this amendment. Automatism not only towards our people temporarily in The Hague, but also to all those who have done some of these crimes in the territory of the former SFRY, or even more specifically in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to bring them to justice because it does not go out of date. The people are looking for the truth. Give the truth that not everyone could properly interpret their observations and insinuations confuse the people of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10524	Thank you. Anyone else on this amendment? Replica? Please don't mention any party, no speaker, no MP. (Dusan Petrovic, from the post: Democratic Party President. Believe me, I didn't hear, but go ahead. I don't believe the president's defense is necessary, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10525	Mr. Krasic, you have a bad manner of telling the truth, but it's a matter of your opinion on how you're going to run politics. So he wasn't the war crimes prosecutor with the president of the Republic, and they didn't agree on anything. It may be the manner of some state authorities in Serbia to issue or negotiate with prosecutors. The President of the Republic respects the Constitution and the law and respects the prosecution's institution, which is independent and elected by this parliament. You know very well, Mr. Krasic, all five members of the Security Council, Russia, China, and the United States, and France and England have the right to veto and can prevent any decision of the Security Council from being voted. The UN tribunal's decision was not put out of force in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10526	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Please, just deny what is not said or true. Wrongly interpreted, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10527	President, I'll discuss what's true and what isn't, don't worry, you know I have to tell the truth. That's that 100. See how logical that makes sense. If someone didn't veto, he voted for it. You see how that turns. There you can vote for, against, abstention and veto. China never vetoes, but when the time is due to vote, they pick themselves up, leave the Security Council session and thus let their disagreement know. What do we do when people don't know? They say – if you didn't use the veto, then you voted for it. That's the logic. It's about reality, truth, and so on. The resolution was passed in order to establish peace in BiH, as a threat to all parties in the conflict that they must stop the armed conflict, as it is threatened with the establishment of a court. Very precise and clear in resolution, read point 1, point 2, point 3. That you told me you were gonna hook up with this, so let me multiply that you did, so you could come here and read it nice. Please don't read it, understand what it's about. If there are a few solutions, don't just turn one. Secondly, as far as this war crimes prosecutor is concerned, he went to consultations to get his opinion, what to say to Prosper. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: they wrote a newspaper about it. They don't read the paper because it wasn't in the yellow press. There's no need for the D.A. to go there for his own opinion. I wish he was more active, so if he asks the National Council, step forward, we're looking for the subject, let's change the legal views, come on, if the prosecution is gathering some evidence, if this office is gathering some evidence, against whom, if there's room for us to engage, etc., that there's an active relationship, or that it's fulfilling its law of prescribed duty. But he won't, he wants to be a politician, he wants to be somebody's spokesman, he avoids it, and then when they come from abroad, they don't know what to say. This is where the government tells one story, the prosecutor the other, the President of the Republic, forget it, I didn't mention him, who knows what he represents.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10528	Please, you're not giving out motives for other people's behavior and institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10529	I'm sorry, I don't get into motivation and initiative, I don't get into impulses, let others judge it. This is confusing, and to make it clear to the citizens, it is all Serbia against Serbs participating in the elections. The President of the Republic is forcing them to vote, obeyed by 800 citizens, and now you're talking to some 35 MPs; well, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10530	Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Mr Krasic called that he was misread, and now he has given the right interpretation and now we have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10531	Mr. Krasic, as a political man, I'm concerned about how your logic apparatus works as a political man. When you explain how you vote in the Security Council, first of all, big forces, which are these five members of the Security Council, they can't vote against without vetoing. You didn't learn that well in international public law when you read it. On the other hand, like here when you sometimes give the quorum to the ruling majority, that means you're in league with them, you know, Mr. Krasic? Also, when permanent members of the Security Council refuse to vote against a certain decision, they do not have much against it to become part of real life. That's the problem logically, Mr. Krassic, but I hope you'll be able to master it quickly. Let me tell you, it's the same case with this other topic, with the prosecutor, the president. The President of the Republic didn't give anyone a warrant without being in charge. You know how, I suppose you know how executive power works in Serbia. The President has no authority over other state authorities, except that he is a member of the Supreme Defence Council, so he commands as much as he belongs to one of the members of the military and that's about what the executive authority is, and the rest are representative functions. You know, Mr. Krassic, I understand that you're very frustrated with having two percent less than DS. That's hundreds of thousands of votes, but you're trying. If you try hard enough, there might be something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10532	Of course, about the amendment. I'm sorry, Mr. Petrovic, but I have to correct you by the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure are explicit. All MPs, when present in the hall, are required by the Rules of Procedure, because in this way they fulfil their duty, to give the quorum, and I thank you both to you and to all the other legislators who have repeatedly given the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10533	We of the SRS, of course, will not vote for this law, although, as you say, we are co-workers of the current government because we gave the quorum once. Thanks to that quorum, DS has lost one more of the privileges that are lost when power is lost, and until then it has not been lost, and that quorum serves you to say that we are cooperating with the DSS. If we're dirty or DSS in that cooperation, you haven't said that yet, I'd like to know. If it's judging by your attitude towards the DSS, then we're dirty. Then why do you blame the dirty if he hangs out with the clean ones? Let me remind you, you're in Belgrade with the DSS. Now, if this DSS is wrong, and it's wrong, of course, because whoever says it's right, let them join them right now, if it's wrong, what you're going to do with them in power in Belgrade with a DSS that's so bad, that radicals can't even quorum to give it ever. There's something wrong with that. Let's balance it out a little bit. Find at least some resemblance to that sin of co-operation in Belgrade, so let me say, yes, you're right, we're working with the DSS. In four years of the existence of the Dossian government, we were once in the O.R. so there would be quorum. It's true, as long as I explain it to you, but if it hadn't been for that quorum, we wouldn't have heard after the debate about dropping the NATO lawsuit and you know it very well. If it hadn't been for that quorum, by now someone would have dropped the NATO lawsuit. This is how you, the fans of the UN tribunal, hold back, still open to it. An hour ago, you said you'd vote for this bill. I didn't come out to tell you that you're DSS associates, because I assumed you voted because it's some party interest, that the law suits you, that it's good. How many years we've been dealing with politics, and I'm going to spend longer than you, for sure, because I like this policy-making business so much that I don't think I'm going to give up so easily, and as long as we're dealing with it, you're going to go out for a pay phone and say, don't at least remember the date and time, so that day and that day you gave the DSS quorum to hold one session; find something better. I've left you to Mr. Warden to take care of you, because I think it's okay for him to find out what kind of company you're working on best, where he has to do a very responsible job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10534	Please, the subject isn't what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10535	And I promise you, Mr. President, and I've already ordered there to deliver it in writing to me to authorise Mr. Krasic to finish the job, and I will sign it and hand it over to you, and you will no longer be able to remind me that you have not received the written word that Zoran Krasic has been appointed the liquidator of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10536	Please, this isn't a topic. The amendment is the subject. Replica, MP Dusan Petrovic, to present Mr Nikolic on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10537	Mr. Nikolic, I have no ambition to become an SRS writer around these quorums, the whole public knows that. You're looking for something better, here's a better one. Here, for Mr. Bubal, you voted, one of your deputies voted for Mr. Bubal and two other ministers were elected. So you voted for the reconstruction of the government, you who declare yourself an opposition party. I don't think that's enough, and the citizens of Serbia don't need any particularly big evidence to support what I'm saying. But it's all legitimate, Mr. Nikolic, it's your policy. Who's clean, who's unclean, who's dirty, who's like this, who's like that, is judged by the citizens of Serbia. The DS therefore calls for us to go to the elections quickly, to bring this parliament into line with the will of the people and that we can quickly join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10538	Thank you. By article 100, I warn you not to insult the messengers or the citizens. The citizens of this country are not stupid, they know very well when you call them under the law to vote for parliament and when they go to parliamentary elections to vote for parliament then. When they come out to vote for the President of the Republic, then they vote for the President of the Republic. When they come out and when everyone calls on them to vote in local and regional elections, they vote in those elections. Whoever convinced them, perhaps even if a citizen believed that the local elections were elections for the President of the Republic or that the elections for the President of the Republic were elections for the Prime Minister, he simply, at the very least, deceived the citizens. The citizens know what they voted for. Please, you know very well, each of us, you, each of us here is both legal and legitimate, and I ask that we do not insult the dignity of the Assembly or of the citizens, and everyone has the right to seek elections at the time when conditions are obtained. Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10539	I want to say that we are in a situation that is important to this country and this people. Because of the strategy, you know a lot of items will be returned to this country. We were obliged to do everything we could to allow the trial in this country. One of these steps is also the adoption of these amendments to the law, which will allow the removal of the last procedural assumption and the possibility of using valid evidence in the proceedings before our courts. Given what has happened today, I can only say that I thank all MPs for their concrete co-operation with regard to the law itself. Four amendments were submitted, indeed correct, three were adopted because they were indeed an improvement in the proposed text. To that I can only express my gratitude to the parliamentary groups who have done so. I'm really not going to interfere with this political part, even though I've been called twice to respond as a representative of the government. Here, I'll say on the first question, if one country's dignity is kept, I think this government must be guarding it, because we're doing everything we can to make sure that in one normal and painless way, in bilateral co-operation, this country fulfils its obligations, without any earthquakes and rips in this society, but there are plenty of them anyway. On the other hand, we make sure we don't allow what the previous government did. In three and a half years, by talking about reforms, she's got us in a position to start from scratch, and when she talks about dignity, I don't think she has any moral right to do that, because whoever, as our people say, takes the right to speak to himself without question can no longer expect any respect from the third or the international community. We believe that this country should do its job, fulfill its obligations, but preserve the minimum of dignity in international relations. The other thing you're asking me is no concern of me. Whoever is talking to, who is pressing charges, who is giving up, the Assembly is authorized to address the competent authorities, since he even has his own Justice Committee, so he can contact and obtain the necessary information. For these reasons, I can't answer that, nor can I answer what any of those organs have commented on and pampered with third parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10540	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Privatization Agency You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic on the bill. The amendments that will be submitted until the opening of the original search will be sent to you. You have received reports from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who belong to none of the parliamentary groups, and these are three Social Democratic Party MPs, after five minutes, according to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the authorised representatives are on this point for DSS Radmilo Milosevic, DS Aleksandar Vlahovic, for SPO - NS Miodrag Stamenkovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the motionary's representative, Dr. Predrag Bubalo, Minister of Industry, want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10541	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, at today's session is a question from the Ministry of Economy's portfolio, so we have a relatively easy task, because it's only one member's amendment and it's related to compliance with the Bank's Law. So the law in question is the law on the privatisation agency. The Privatisation Agency Act established the Privatisation Agency and defined its competences by that law. It, as its primary obligation or activity, has a process monitoring and guiding process of privatisation. The bankruptcy law provides that the bankruptcy process is conducted by the Privatisation Agency for social and state-owned enterprises, provided that they are insolvent or insolvent. This is for reasons of celery, for reasons of greater social control, so that was why we defined ourselves to change the Law on the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10542	I'm obliged to inform you of the next changes. I apologize, the president of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, Dusan Petrovic, has withdrawn power for Mr Vlahovic, and G17 Plus has authorized Nikola Novakovic to do so. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Privatisation Committee - Nikola Novakovic - no, and the Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudic, chairman of the Committee – no. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a rule, a law that has one member hardly ever merits special attention, usually it's a consensus, which is what the draftr of the law points us to now. I just want to clear up a dilemma that appears with members of a parliamentary group, and since it is the authorised representative of Minister Bubal, who was one day elected with 129 votes, and 129th vote was the voice of one SRS MP, to explain it first. In fact, our MP really pressed "yes" with his elbow. When we all jumped on him, he ripped out a quick card, unaware that when you took out the card, it remained recorded as he voted. Since it was 129th vote, it didn't matter, but I'll tell you how he made it up to the president of the Parliament's error group. He brought me 50 kilos of cabbage from Futoga. It was such a sin, so it's worth about 50 kilos, a kilo there and here. As far as the law itself is concerned, of course, he's tied to the bankruptcy act, but I'm interested, he didn't tell us here how many employees he's going to have to have the Agency now. This is a whole new, huge area for the Agency, especially in this country where bankruptcy is a daily thing. That's why I'm interested in whether that's exactly what's being considered the best possible way. Why wasn't it a bankruptcy agency, if everything's already being solved by the agencies, if the National Assembly is constantly setting up some agencies, there's something I don't feel like privatizing with bankruptcy. All I've naively believed is that privatisation in terms of production, increasing production, increasing the volume of traffic, and here you bring me into a relationship, just officializing what's been going on in Serbia since 2000, is about privatisation with bankruptcy. It's all that bothers me. It doesn't make sense, and I'm a privatisation supporter, and we favored it in our political performances for 13, 14 years. That it doesn't turn out to the citizens of Serbia that everyone we talked about privatisation, that we were talking about the bankruptcy of their company. It's not privatizing the way to bankruptcy, it's the way to production. Unfortunately, what we've come to now in 2004, at the end of her, about bankruptcy and privatisation or going first bankruptcy, so privatisation, or privatisation, so bankruptcy, but you've connected us with these two very strongly. Now through the agency, finally, this symbiosis, that's your official relationship. That's why I wish it wasn't at the Privatisation Agency, and of course I have terrible objections to all the bankruptcys so far, to the bankruptcy managers, to the economic court and his behaviour, and especially to the judges who are publicly appointed as people who are immorally engaged in their business. If this is the way to fix this area up a little bit, so be it. The results so far are not saying that I was right when I favored privatisation so much, no matter who was in power. From now on, I am only a representative of the privatisation that took place during the Serbian Radical Party's rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10544	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised presidents or representatives want a word? No, I don't. The minister wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10545	I thank Mr. Nikolic for this question, because I have a chance to explain some of the things about privatisation. And I personally had in these discussions, when the Bank Act was passed, when it was made, a large reserve in order for privatisation to be done through bankruptcy. With the representatives of the World Bank and all others who participated in the drafting of this law, drafts, etc., I said that the bankruptcy law needs us as well as any other market economy to clean up those businesses that cannot meet their obligations. I'm a big opponent that privatisation is done through bankruptcy, because we have the Privatisation Act. The reason this member's addition to the Privatisation Agency means we'll have an agency to license bankruptcy managers. Bank managers, individuals will do their job in all private companies, small, medium, etc. However, in social and state-owned enterprises, only in these cases, the priority is restructuring. At the Privatisation Agency, we have a department or a restructuring sector, people who have been dealing with these large enterprises for a year, a year and a half, and precisely to rationalise, not to introduce new people who will be dealing with these large businesses' problems from the beginning, in order to save and reduce the number of new people's engagements, the restructuring sector will also conduct bankruptcy proceedings, in terms of social enterprises, i.e. enterprises with majority state capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10546	Mr. Baralich, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10547	Mr. President, the provisions of Article 38 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraphs 2 and 3. During the meeting of the National Assembly, a parliamentary group may authorise one of its members to represent a parliamentary group at a certain point in the agenda, which shall be notified in writing by the President of the National Assembly no later than the opening of the debate on the agenda point. Item 3 - if the parliamentary group is a deputy president, or an authorised representative, it assumes the authority of the president of the parliamentary group. Mr. Dusan Petrovic unauthorizedly withdrew power for Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, until the agenda item is finished, Mr. Vlahovic is a representative of the parliamentary group and no one can withdraw his authority on his behalf. So it's a practice here. The assembly found that Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic is an authorised representative of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group. After that, no one can withdraw that power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10548	Thank you. I owe you an explanation. According to Article 38(2) you read, during the session, it is possible until the start of the debate and then defined how. So, I read that mandate, and then before the debate began, Mr Petrovic withdrew his authority, which is in line with that. And if it had happened after the debate began, the Rules of Procedure would have been hurt and you would have been right. Are you satisfied with the clarification? Thank you. Since there are no parliamentary groups registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10549	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, quite briefly, and I need to say that here, is not an illogical proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Agency Act. It is good for the institution to appear as a bankruptcy manager in bankruptcys where social capital is majority in enterprises. My coldness, Mr. Minister, comes from the fact that I am experiencing circumstances, and having trouble working with the Restructure Centro, having trouble with the people who are there and are already trying because of the big problems that this centre has, in the process of restructuring Zorke, I have knowledge of how many problems and how many troubles valuable referents, associates, or whatever they call themselves, at the Restructure Center have in implementing existing cases. It would be important to me, and it's important for the citizens of Šapca, because besides the other things I do and I represent here, that we have a clear idea of how fast the restructuring of Zorke can be completed, how it will be done by putting new jobs, which is also the business of carrying out bankruptcy in law-defined enterprises, reflects the current jobs of the Centre for Reconstruction, and thus the entire privatisation agency. Citizens know that there are 67 large systems in Serbia, and these are major economic systems representing or representing the backbone of Serbia's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-13-0.u10550	Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Privatisation Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Ministry must declare itself. Do you accept? You accept the proposal. I hereby conclude that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Dr Predrag Bubalo, the Minister of Industry, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the draft government law, which was to be considered a 20th item of the agenda, has been withdrawn, we move to the next point. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR THE PRIVATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE "KNJAZ MILOŠ" FROM ARANJELOVCA You received a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by a group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Meho Omerovic on the proposal for a decision. I remind you, according to Article 156, paragraph 3 and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. For this point, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia is Radmilo Milosevic and for G17 plus Nikola Novakovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the representative of the Proposer National MP, Verica Radeta, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) On the lists of parliamentary groups there are no entries for the word. Whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before we conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want a final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in particular and in general in the day to vote. It's only given to meet the amendments, since a single search has been opened. We move to item 22 of the agenda: - THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF SERBIA I hereby inform you that I am in accordance with Article 17. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal from the National Assembly’s vice president. You have been presented with a proposal for a vice president of the National Assembly. As you saw, National Assembly Vice-President Milan Markovic, a member of the Democratic Party, was proposed. As referred to in Article 18(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall have the right to explain the proposal, ask if the rapporteur – National MP Dusan Petrovic wants to explain the proposal of the candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly? No, I don't. I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. There's no word for it. According to Article 18(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, since the presidents, or authorised representatives, have not applied for the word, I conclude the search. According to Article 18(5), Rules of Procedure, I am setting out a list of candidates for the vice-president of the National Assembly, where only one candidate is Milan Markovic. The National Assembly will hold the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in voting day. Since we have completed the debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, December 13, 2004, at 17.50 p.m., as a voting day. Before we go to the vote, please determine if we have a voting quorum. I find there's no voting quorum at this point. I'm taking a 20-minute break. We'll continue the vote at 18.10 p.m. [[After break - 18,35]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue voting on the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, called for 29 November 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 191 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Goran Knezevic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. He also reported that Veroljub Stevanovic would be away, but came in the meantime. Since we've finished discussing all the points of the agenda of this session, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Reproductive Material of the Wood Tree Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill on reproductive material of the forest trees, in principle. For 134, of the 134 present MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since all amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill on reproductive material of forest trees, in general. For 133, he did not vote one out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill on reproductive material of forest trees. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PUBLICATIONS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the publication law, in principle. Three out of 140 MPs voted for 137. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on publication of publications, in general. For 139 out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on publication of publications. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for an ELECTRONS SIGN LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft e-signature bill to the vote, in principle. For 140 out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Lazar Cavic to Article 1. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment, the Scientific and Technological Development Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 128, was not voted by eleven, out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment, the Scientific and Technological Development Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, there were 14 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment, the Scientific and Technological Development Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 18 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 18 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm voting on the draft e-signature bill in general. For 144, one of 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft e-signature bill. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE COUNTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put the proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in principle. For 143, they did not vote four out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the draft law, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 9. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59 against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Srjo Komazec. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60 against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 206 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 61, against 127, did not vote 19 out of 207 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment is attended by Natasa Jovanovic in the afternoon. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 187, against two, it did not vote 19 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 125, 20 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 128, 18 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 128, 18 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 183, against one, it did not vote 25 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ambassador Milan Stevovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 190, 21 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted 39, of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 126, 19 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, there were no 85 votes, of the 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 126, he did not vote 21 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment should not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 126, 20 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 127, 26 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 191, 20 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 188, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 189, two abstentions, he did not vote 21, of 212 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A member of the 34th amendment was submitted by Radisa Ilic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 35 and 35. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 125, 22 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 126, he did not vote 21 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 192, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 128, it did not vote 44, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. We move to item 5 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LIFE CENTER Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on environmental impact assessment in principle. Nine out of 146 MPs voted for 137. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17 by 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the bill on the environmental impact assessment bill, in general. For 142, 67 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on environmental impact assessment. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE STRATEGIC ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LIFE CENTER Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on strategic environmental impact assessment in principle. For 143, he did not vote 31, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill before voting on the draft law in general, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide specifically on the existence of general interest in the feedback of Article 26. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 26. The draft law provides a feedback to this provision. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provision of article 26. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 141, five of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 26. It's a bill of law. Since we have come to the conclusion of Article 26's feedback, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put the draft law on strategic environmental impact assessment in general. For 147, three of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on strategic environmental impact assessment. We move on to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for an INTEGRATED Prevention LAW AND CONTROL OF LIFE CREDITS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution in principle. For 141, five of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, in general. For 142, three of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LIFE CENTRAL PROTECTION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the bill on environmental protection, in principle. For 128, abstentions 14, four, a total of 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Gordana Komic to the article. 5, 26, 33, 39 and 125; Miloj Savić in Art. 34, 85 and 87 with correction; Vitomir Plužarevic on Article 16; Radiše Ilic on Article 76; Srđe Komazec on Article 92; Zoran Krasic on Article 104 and Gordana Pop-Lazic on Article 87 with correction; amendment of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment to Article 15 and amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Article 92. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 124, they did not vote four out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 119, 12, a total of 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 125, six out of 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 126, four of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 3a be added after article 3. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 126, not one, a total of 213 MPs voted. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, v 125, abstention one, a total of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 126, a total of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 125, they did not vote four out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 123, seven of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 123, four of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 11a be added after article 11. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 122, five, a total of 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 126, they did not vote four out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 123, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that six new titles and members be added after article 13. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 124, two of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 124, two of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that the title be changed above Articles 15 and 15. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 125, they didn't vote three, of the 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that seven new titles and members be added after article 15. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 123, three, a total of 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above article 21. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 126, one of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 21a be added after article 21. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 125, two of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to Article 27. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 124, one of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 123, three of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 121, 8 of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 122, five of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 123, six of the 213 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of the 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 125, they did not vote three, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 123, five of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, v 122, abstention one, did not vote 6, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 119, there was no vote of 8 out of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 120, 9 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 122, six of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 120, nine of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 122, there were no votes of eight, of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted nine out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 120, eight of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 70th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 119, there were no votes of eight, of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 71st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 122, seven of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that two new titles and members of 71a be added after article 71a. and 71b. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 122, seven of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 125, they did not vote four out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 74th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 121, seven of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 123, six of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 125, one of 210 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Miloja Savic submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against 83, one of 210 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 84th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 120, it was not 11 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and article 84 be added after article 84. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 122, four of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 125, three of the 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Stanimirovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 121, six out of 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 121, ten of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 105th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 123, five out of 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 111th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 118, 12 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 112st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 124, five out of 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 120, ten out of 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 114a be added after article 114a. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 123, seven of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 118, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 121, ten of the 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 121, eight out of 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 121st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 121, seven of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 127 be added after article 127. The Government and the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 121, ten of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on environmental protection in general. For 126, it did not vote 13, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on environmental protection. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the important laws since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of certain laws, in principle. For 141, three of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been tabled on the draft law before voting on the draft law in general, it is necessary for the National Assembly to specifically decide on the existence of general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 2. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 2. The bill has a feedback. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided for, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly shall in particular decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Committee on Justice and Administration has established that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 2. It's a bill of law. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give the provision of Article 2. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 126, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 13, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 2. It's a bill of law. Since we have come to the conclusion that there is general interest in the feedback of Article 2, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the suspension of the validity of certain laws in general. One of the 143 MPs did not vote for 142. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the termination of certain laws. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on income tax after the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. For 127, with 15 abstentions, one of 143 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the MP of the People's Republic of Sovrnija Čonjagic, written on the way, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 12. The draft law, which the Legislative Committee, rejected as untimely amendments to Articles 30 and 32. The bill was submitted by MP Blagica Kostic. I also remind you that it has been found that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the 7th People's MP, Sovrani Čonjagic. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and, with correction, Meho Omerovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 107, three of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Meso Omerovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, v. 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 119, six out of 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, three of the 206 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 124, five of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 125, one of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 122, six of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 126, three of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 126, two of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 79, against 123, five out of 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 124, seven of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. A representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia accepted the amendment during a review of the draft law in particular. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The 207 were not voted by three, of 210 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Meso Omerovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 106, they did not vote four out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 80, against 124, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a provision of Article 70. The bill has feedback. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, shall, when voting on those provisions, decide in particular whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give the provision of Article 70. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 131 against 15, it did not vote 63 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal and decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 70. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. For 127, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, in principle. For 127, with 18 abstentions, of 145 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Seven out of 203 MPs voted for 73 against 123. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 121, five of 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 123, three of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote seven, of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 125, they did not vote four out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 30th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 121, ten of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 31st amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 125, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 73, against 125, five of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law as a whole. For 127, they did not vote two, a total of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We move on to the 12th point of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending law and supplementation of the ACCIAS Act since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. For 126, with 18 abstentions, one of 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica to Member 12th and National MP Dragan Petrovic as member 14. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
