ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted without public and professional debate and I don't think that's good. The practice showed that it was necessary to amend some of the provisions of this law by emergency procedure and by emergency procedure could be amended by the provisions of the laws for which it was necessary, and other amendments should have been made in one serious procedure preceding the public and professional debate. The aim of these amendments to the law is to make the criminal proceedings more effective and to prevent obstruction of the work of the court. This was only done in relation to the provisions relating to the defendant and the defendant. Other participants in the criminal proceedings are not covered by these amendments and additions, although their impact on labour ineffectiveness and the delay in criminal proceedings is large. This primarily applies to the public prosecutor; in no word is it mentioned that the public prosecutor contributes to the delay in criminal proceedings. It was necessary to bring in appropriate provisions that would oblige the public prosecutor to present all evidence at his disposal and to bring out any actions on the basis of which a person was suspected. The procedure in detention cases is urgent and the court is obliged to act effectively. However, we are aware that the court also contributes by its work to delay proceedings, and we do not have provisions that would oblige it. Amendments to the Law mainly make an explanation of some of the provisions already in place and necessary corrections have been made, but there are parts concerning detention, exemptions and disciplinary penalties, which, in my deep conviction, are unacceptable and must be changed. Thus, amendments to the law provide that detention can also be designated for criminal offences for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for more than 10 years, and if so, the law states, it is justified for the manner in which the offence or other particularly difficult circumstances are carried out. It is a very inaccurate formulation that can be widely interpreted and therefore allows for the possibility of abuse. I am sorry that the minister is not present, because he witnessed that the application of the same provisions in the 1994 Criminal Procedure Act led to major abuses in determining detention. The opposition fought all the time for the former law to be abolished. However, he is now making such a provision. In the earlier law, rather than the current formulation -- particularly difficult circumstances, it was said that it was the harassment of citizens. Those involved in criminal proceedings know that at that time this provision has always been stated for other reasons for determining detention and when other reasons for the detention remain for this wide-ranging formulation. I'm afraid that in the event that this provision of the law remains, there will be another case that has not been formally established, but that will be used as a mandatory detention for all criminal offences for which the sentence of prison has been provided for over 10 years. These amendments and additions of the Law provide that detention may take a theoretically 7.5 years and longer. If there is a need for some criminal arrest to last during this period, then it is not the case for all crimes, but it is seen from the statement of the minister that the amendment will be accepted in this sense, so I would no longer comment on it. The judge's exemption was also not resolved in the best way. The exemption should be allowed to be decided, but the criminal proceedings at the request of an exemption should not be terminated, thereby preventing the court from obstructing. Because, in a particular case, as foreseen by these amendments and additions, we can come to a situation where the case is abolished for reasons of exemption and that the procedure begins to start over only for these reasons. In fact, it is unacceptable for a judge whose exemption is sought to rule. It is also unclear and a provision relating to the deadlines, i.e. the period when the deadlines do not run because of the absence of the accused and the defender. It is not clear when these deadlines are running and what happens in cases of justified absence, for example. A defense attorney, if she's, like, sick. As far as the disciplinary penalties provided for by the amendments and supplements are concerned, I find them too strict. There have been no specific economic changes that would have contributed to changes in already scheduled penalties. The amendments to this law indicate that obstructions will be no more, because the law will not be able to be misused and there is really no reason for multiple increases in disciplinary penalties. If the amendments we have proposed are adopted, I believe that this law will be significantly improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3612	Thank you. Here, meanwhile, came MP Petar Jojic. Since he's rightfully absent, I'll give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what democracy is in one country, this is primarily seen in the rights of citizens, seen through criminal proceedings and other proceedings before the competent state authorities. According to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, after the adoption of the constitutional charter, the priority of this parliament and the government of the Republic of Serbia had to be the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Constitutional Charter, the Member States were obliged to bring new constitutions or to amend and supplement their constitutions within six months of the date of adoption of the Constitutional Charter, while at the same time setting out their laws with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when it comes to the Constitutional Charter, I'd like to point out the following, it's tightly tied, so I'd like to draw your attention. Human freedoms and rights are being written today and spoken more than ever before. This should not be surprising because human freedoms and rights are equally subject to philosophical, legal, political, literary and other research in the world. The principle of the sovereignty of the people, as a basic form for the organisation of government, and the rule of law and resistance to every oppression and every lawlessness and violence, as well as tortures, should be pointed out here. The essence of the recent rule of law must make the area of human rights and human freedom incompatible. These fundamental and inalienable rights are rights and freedoms, primarily understood as the rights of individuals against the state. That is why human rights include those rights that do not owe to the state and its will. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia must become a modern rule of law, which must respect all human rights if it wants to be attached to the basic principle of liberal democracy and the principle of rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, when I say this, I mean that in our Parliament, for almost four years now, human rights and freedoms have been severely violated by the adoption of a number of laws contrary to international law, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. This was particularly manifested by the introduction of the state of emergency and the measures taken in the "Sabbe" action, when 12,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia were arrested, and the number of those brought in for information talks is unknown, I have learned that they were double. Among them, count the arrests of at least 11,000 witnesses. People were arrested, held in prison, released from prison, and no procedural action against those persons was taken. There's one question here -- how many arrests are there? How many faces have been filed for criminal charges? How many criminal charges have been dropped and what is in the process, or how many charges have been filed? It is a huge number, and through this parliament, through its organs, it should not and should not cross. The Universal Declaration of the United Nations, adopted in 1948, was adopted as an optional legal document. Today, it is legally binding, because many of the rights contained in the Declaration were subsequently incorporated into international contracts. So the essence of human rights isn't contained in the documents of positive law, it's derived from the morals of the state. Modern democracies, based on the principles of rule of law, use valuable experience that has been gained since the civil revolutions in England, France and America. Therefore, the SRS will not support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, as these amendments and additions are severely violated by fundamental human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, when I say so, I have in mind the constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the adopted Charter of State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. Provisions of Art. Eight to ten. (human and minority rights and civil liberties) in attitude 2 say - the level of human and minority rights, individual and collective, and civil freedoms cannot be reduced. And Serbia-Montenegro monitors the exercise of human and minority rights and civil freedoms and provides their protection, in case that protection is not provided in the Member States. What will Mr Marovic say now, and what will the Serbian-Montenegro parliament say? Under this provision of the Charter, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that you all believe in it and that you want it to be respected, you would have to react to other organs, so that no changes like this that narrow down fundamental human rights and freedoms occur. Ladies and gentlemen, it also concerns that someone is trying to abolish the state union of Serbia-Montenegro in advance. In this proposal, the amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure on page 18, paragraph 1, reads: "The fate of the state union is uncertain, so that the Ministry of National and Ethnic Communities can also be abolished". Therefore, you can see for yourself that whoever proposes this is deeply affecting the survival of the state union and is questioning the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. This part I read in the proposal concerns what state authority in the chapter of the existing Criminal Procedure Code, in chapters 32 and 33, will now implement and provide international and legal assistance and extradite our citizens to other countries, other bodies, organisations or extradition of foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal, which contains that this will take place and will be carried out under a special regulation and that this will be carried out by a special authority, puts moritoring on a contract signed by our state and our community with other states and international organisations. Therefore, no one can be extradited, there is no co-operation with the international court, nor with other bodies and organisations, unless it would be deleted from the existing Code of Criminal Procedure Chapter on International Legal Assistance and Extradition. What other organ is that? What other regulation is that? It's not said, because we don't have one. So we don't have a second body, we don't know if it's going to be at the community level of Serbia-Montenegro or whether it's going to be at the level of a member of this community. It is also said of the regulation; there is no regulation, ladies and gentlemen, we do not see that regulation. What about the items in the meantime? Who will handle the items of extradition and the pointing to international legal aid after the adoption of such a proposal? No one's gonna make it. Therefore, there are many delusions here, a number of problems why the SRS thinks this proposal should not be accepted. This proposal should not be accepted for any more reason. When it comes to detention, a high-level lawyer who graduated from Belgrade's Law School with the best grades, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic really explained yesterday what it means to extend detention from two to four years, which means to extend detention after giving the verdict instead of an earlier resolution of a year and to go to two years, which means, where the number of months and years of investigation takes place. In addition, the proposal relating to the non-accounting of deadlines in the event that it is obviously going to delay the proceedings or appoint or appoint a new defender does not have a foothold, there is no legal logic that this period and that time does not count. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, if someone is inaccessible and absent as guilty, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a trial in absentia. That institute can't be bypassed. Therefore, if someone is inaccessible, the court is legally required to judge him in absentia and will judge him in absentia. If it's about setting up a defense attorney, it's not like that defender went to the moon, so we can't find another one. The second defender can be appointed on official duty and the court can ensure that the trial continues. My dear comrades, colleagues, respected colleagues, here is not a problem, but a problem in the efficiency of the court. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is the efficiency and integrity of the court's work. If the court is effective, there is no delay in the proceedings. In this case, courts should be strengthened, the Supreme Court should be strengthened, the Supreme Court Supervisory Board should engage, be outnumbered, and thus the efficiency of the courts be far greater than it is. That is why Serbian radicals cannot support this proposal, for the simple reason that it is intruding into the gravest violation of international law and fundamental and human rights. As for the exemption of a judge or a court, I see no argument that a judge whose exemption is sought may be found in a council to decide whether the exemption will be accepted or not. That's unacceptable. The exception of the man for whom there are reasons for the exception is sought. You want his voice to be overwhelming tomorrow, deciding on the solution. Secondly, what will happen to the exemption if the main search is later revealed and a new reason that says the judge must be excluded. Therefore, this proposal cannot be accepted either. It may be accepted, but it will not do well, from the point of view of procedural law, even cause great harm to legal science and our legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been out of the law for two months. I'll remind you of an existing Code of Criminal Procedure. I worked with a group of experts as a federal minister for almost a year, but I worked on this because I hired the best experts from law school, from federal court, from the Supreme Court, from the Republic Prosecutor's Office, district courts and other institutions, so legal science experts. Ladies and gentlemen, it may occur to someone to say that we need to impose physical penalties, that some wishes go away, that we should treat political opponents. I can tell you that the Serbian Radical Party has been in favour of passing a new law on criminal proceedings that has been assessed as the most advanced law on criminal proceedings in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3614	The word is made by MP Milan Stevovic, and let the MP of the people, Djordje Mamula, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try, for the sake of the public, to say a few introductory words about the bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. Here's why. We are today discussing a proposal for a legal text from which students learn, from which students are based, from which professors teach and which is a mandatory subject in the department of law school, or in the criminal direction. So we have to act with a special attitude when it comes to this law. We also have to say a few basic things. The criminal proceedings existed throughout history, in the form of such a legal criminal procedure, inquisitor and mixed. This last one dates back as the currents of the bourgeois revolution of France, and in 1808 it was brought to the so-called bourgeois revolution. Law on investigation, in France. It is an alpha and omega of all criminal procedural laws in modern Europe. Based on this, Europe as a whole begins with German law, French law, Italian law, Russian law, as well as all Eastern countries, rests on this law. How valuable that code speaks and the fact that in France he is still in force, with very little changes. As much as we are inclined to make these changes, they will also say that since 2000 we have had three changes, of which we have even one codification, so instead of the law on criminal proceedings that existed before. Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the Law of 28 December 2001, which entered into force on 28 March 2002. In December 2003, we brought changes, and that's the second change, and what we're discussing today, that's the third change. So we should do a little review of all these changes after all. I know the Constitutional Charter was passed, but maybe there was room before to bring this change into line. For these reasons, I propose that this debate should be focused in a very professional and similar direction, so that we no longer discuss this. When it comes to the first and the original institute, I'd say, about the presummation of innocence, there's no deal. Our Code of Criminal Procedure has this presummation of innocence. It existed in one form, so it was in another form, now it's proposed a new change. Basically, the person is considered innocent until he's legally convicted. I believe that the position of European law, prescribed in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, should be accepted here, where it is said that anyone charged with a criminal offence has to be considered innocent until proven guilty under the law. It is necessary to avoid mentioning whether it is a judicial verdict or a decision. In the previous law on criminal proceedings, it was figurative - after a judicial verdict, and there was an amendment to the 2001 Code of Criminal Procedure. He used the term "decision" instead of "judgment" etc. However, this is one of the broadest formulations used by the European Union, so it would be convenient for us to accept such a formulation. As far as further provisions are concerned, as regards the persons deprived of liberty and who must be informed of the reasons for the deprivement, I also believe that everything that the person is accused of must be informed of. In the bill of law, something else was put in place, to inform the person of all that was put on him. It's a very broad formulation. However, it needs to be aware of what European law provides for, and that is to present to the person what is being accused of. There is no danger of creating a confusion here that has been given in the context of this proposal, where it is said that this term is not used precisely because of the fact that there is no interference over the charges, the act of the indictment, etc. I must stress that deprivement of a person's freedom is the first step that can happen to someone who is suspected of committing a crime. It's clear to everyone there's no indictment. Therefore, this indictment comes at a later stage of criminal proceedings, and we know that criminal proceedings are one step forward, from a system of grounds of suspicion, beyond reasonable doubt, to a certain nature and truth in the end, which should figure in the decision. For these reasons, I would advocate, on behalf of the SRS, that we use the terminology used here and most of the European legislation. As for the request for exemption, I'll be brief and clear. I warned from this pay phone that the judge's exemption is not working precisely because this institute has been paralyzed and because it has not functioned in such a way as is provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is an abuse by the defendant, or the defence of the defendant. This can be regulated in a very simple and easy way, which is to oblige the Presidents of the courts who decide, or persons who are invited to decide on a request for exemption to do their job, not to reject these requirements as unfounded because they cannot meet in the hallway tomorrow with a fellow whom they have excluded, they are uncomfortable looking at a colleague they have excluded, etc. Indeed, in some cases there are reasons for the exemption and should be adopted. When such a practice is created, it will absolutely not occur to anyone that they are without reason applying for a judge's exemption. That's why we're standing here for an amendment to this text of the proposal. When it comes to penalties, penalties are also increased for witnesses who violate the discipline of the proceedings, and for experts, for institutions that experts, etc. How many punishments are these? I find them inappropriate and enormous for our living conditions. I would rather advise the Minister and the Government to take a little care of the witness institutes, which is how the witness takes the oath when he takes the oath. That's what we were supposed to discuss here, not with how much of the number the witness would be punished if he didn't come and thus interferes with the court's work. The basic civil right of everyone is to appear before the court and testify. This civil law should allow him to do so. It doesn't have to be sanctioned now. All people who know something mostly respond to the court's call, they're neat. Therefore, this part may need to be corrected, or reduced. When it comes to detention, my colleagues from the SRS have given you a lot of exhaustive data. This is a famous member of 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which speaks of the length of detention, the reasons for detention, etc., up to 146 members. However, although detentions here are increased by double, which I believe has no real explanation, I have three things to say. In order for the detention to be determined, he must be prescribed by law. That's the first condition. The second condition is that the detention system must act urgently. So every detention case gets a special seal, by the court, on the envelope of the file, where it's said to be urgent. The third reason is that detention is lifted by the court's decision immediately, as soon as the grounds for determining that detention cease. With this legal text, as this proposal is, all these three commands that we had in general procedural law are analyzed. That's why the SRS is pushing for us to revise this decision here and hold on to that old system. When it comes to this detention, we have to say that in our criminal law there was a so-called law. Mandatory and university detention. Mandatory detention was regulated by Article 142, paragraph 1, and the university detention by Article 142, paragraph 2. Now there's a mix-up and a fluctuation. We want to put an end to mandatory detention, but we're doing it in a clumsy way. Such a formulation, as it was used, is not adequate. We forgot that this Article 142, paragraph 1, has two attitudes. There was a correction in the first attitude, and there was no correction in the second attitude. Therefore, in the second position, detention is left to be determined in case a person is legally sentenced to a sentence of more than five years. Therefore, it is one of the mandatory custody segments. If we are to eliminate mandatory detention, we must also eliminate this position 2 or in some way correct it. This was not taken into account in this proposal. When we talk about detention at all, we have to mention very important things, which is that detention is only one way or the reason to ensure the presence of the defendant or accused in the main search and for the successful conduct of the proceedings; before that there are a whole series of segments that ensure the presence of the defendant, which is the call, the bringing, the promise that he will not leave his residence, residence, the guarantee, etc. So, custody only goes if they're exhausted all these things. When it comes to the provision of Article 146 concerning the extension of detention, i.e. a double increase, I said that we disagreed here, but I would also pay attention to another very important thing (and it is good that the fellow minister arrived), which is attitude 7. With regard to Article 7, it shall without reason be mentioned that the deadlines laid down in Articles 3 and 4 shall not run during the period during which the main search is postponed or suspended due to the absence of the accused. Items 3 and 4 apply to the person in custody. So that face is present. That correction was carried out by the minister himself in yesterday's address and I am grateful for it. I have to point out the follow-up to this article, because it's not right. So, the same goes for if his defender is absent. Please, if this is about detention, and it's about detention, it's about mandatory defence. So, the person in custody must have an attorney under official duty, and if the person is designated by official duty, it must be present. So it's a person who's been put up by the court and who's required to respond to certain calls. Therefore, this second part is wrong and needs to be corrected in every way. As for the dismissal of power and choice or the appointment of a new defender, I don't think there's a reason. The dismissal of the power of attorney is the legal right of the defendant and the legal right of counsel, no one has the right to influence whether or not the defendant will resign the power of attorney. But it doesn't delay the procedure, because it uses a certain right. In all complicated cases, the defendants have more defenders and will find it very difficult to apply this institute. I therefore believe that the amendment tabled by the SRS should be adopted. There's one more thing I'd like to say about self-awareness, and that's the prerogative that for crimes up to 10 years in prison, insight can be done by internal affairs authorities. I believe that this provision is illusory and should not be allowed to internal affairs authorities, no matter how staffed they are, to make an insight, because these are very serious crimes that have been threatened by a sentence of up to 10 years in prison. These are the works that the municipal courts and the fact that the municipal judges, the culprits and the investigative judges are most concerned about, would not come out of these insights. I don't know what the technical procedure is about the appearance of investigative judges, however, if the judge's duty is properly organised, this provision is unnecessarily demonstrated. I believe that insight is a very complicated procession to be performed by professionals, those persons who will know how what they have recorded will be verified by the court. So the basic rule is that what I realize can be evidence in a criminal procedure. Only the guilty judge who tried and actively participated in the verdict can adequately make an insight. So, we can't have a criminal technician telling us about some legal and legal facts about a criminal procedure, he's a technical person, and that person can do that part of the job, and even less if we're talking about millionaires, not to mention everything. Another thing about these crimes through the OUP can be determined by skill. I believe that this provision is very disputable and that here the minister, and the government as a proposer, should accept correction. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3616	The People's Messenger George Mamul has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3617	The Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted on 28 December 2001 and very bad solutions in the law are now trying to fix. The price is pretty big, because the authors of that code forgot about the reality of the state we live in. This bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure comes at a time when we must be aware that we are a country that has come to the death of two police generals, four SPP politicians, former Stambolic President, former military minister Bulatovic, former Prime Minister Vojvodina Bosko Perošević, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, owner of the daily telegraph list Curuvija and correspondent of "Evening News" from Jagodina. I single out only those cases that have affected the public, caused shock and collective stress and can't be said that it can't affect the state's organs. So there is no state in Europe where in a relatively short time there has been so many liquidations of public figures from political life. It's something that always affects every society on a change of laws. Thus, individual cases influence the law to change because of all future similar cases. I have proposed several amendments, however, I see that they do not fit into the concept of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure. First of all, one of the foundations for resolving the issue of detention is the European Declaration on the Protection of Human Rights. It is here with a delay ratified in December of last year, and was brought in 1950 in the cold war atmosphere of then-Europe and is not the best solution. Therefore, let us not celebrate all European solutions and all European laws. Of course, time has shown, so the European Court of Human Rights and the European Commission have begun to find hidden provisions in Article 5. The European Conventions on Human Rights and the Protection of Human Rights, so when you look at the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, you will see that with changes over the last few decades, the attitude towards human rights has changed, especially towards detention. Here's the most attention, as far as I could tell, caused a motion to amend the provisions concerning detention. They are truly general and will be very difficult to write complaints about such solutions that do not have to be based on facts. However, when the practice of the European Court of Human Rights is looked at and the laws on criminal proceedings in Europe are looked at, it will be seen that all the solutions are not such that judicial decisions on detention are based on facts, but in many laws there are such solutions that are sufficiently valuable courts. Otherwise, when it comes to the duration of detention, I have to say that under some laws on criminal proceedings in Europe detention can really take a long time. In Italy, detention may take more than six years for crimes for which more than 20 years are scheduled. So, first of all, countries that have had and have serious problems with organised crime, not looking for solutions to our situation in the laws of Norway, Denmark, Luxembourg, as well as some other countries that have not had serious problems with organised crime. Of course, to make it more efficient, it is necessary to bear in mind that these countries have far greater budgets, as we know, both for the police and for the prosecution and for the courts, so I think that without taking into account these circumstances, the objections do not have any particular significance. In addition, I think it is necessary, and here it prevailed in the discussion, to pass a whole new law on criminal proceedings, because I think the authors of the previous one wanted to go into history as great liberals without being very good at knowing our opportunities, the public, our lives. I also have to say that it would be necessary to change the system of law schooling, so that we don't get graduates from law schools who have nothing to do with court practice and even less with real life. However, when it comes to detention, I would like to say that here mandatory detention has already been suspended in 2001, but that now, in the proposed amendments of Article 142, it may be somewhat acceptable to accept that first view of detention, that particularly severe circumstances may be the reason for justification of detention; for that other reason, I think it was better to specify that detention can be determined if it is a criminal offence for which the sentence of 10 years is intended, and that this is necessary for the smooth conduct of criminal proceedings or people's safety. This could, however, be easier to defend itself with facts, and in a court decision relating to detention, and in complaints in which such detention would be challenged. With regard to the rights charged in Article 5 which is amended, I do not think it is possible to immediately inform the person of his rights in any case; let's say when it comes to language, given the number of languages and that our country is a transit country, it is not possible for everyone in his language or language who understands to inform about the reasons for detention, i.e. deprivement of freedom; so that the amendment that I have proposed is closer to life. I also suggested in Article 2, when it comes to a criminal association case, that if each member of the criminal association immediately informed the judge or the competent authorities of the association and said that criminal acts were being prepared which would then be prevented, he might immediately help in the fight against crime by revealing the facts of the work of the criminal association of which he is a member. This way, if it were left out and moved for a later moment, it would be lost in efficiency. In terms of exceptions, I believe that this solution is also relatively good, since so far the exemption has been very often misused, and especially by defenders who have been trying to make mistakes of their clients in the investigation or their tactical moves from the investigation of the document's unreasonable and unrealistic requests for exemption. It's turned into abuse of rights. However, since the proposed amendments to Articles 2, 8 and 14 do not fit the concept, I am giving up on them, so I suggest that the next time in the new amendments to the Code be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3618	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Mark the Christine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3619	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure is the result of blackmailing one of the parliamentary groups that make up the majority in the Assembly and it is a special surprise that Mr Stojkovic has accepted to participate in such blackmails, as it is a serious and responsible man. Mr. Minister, you'll see that this blackmail will not be worth your while, because this government and this congregation majority are going to break up very quickly anyway. You accepted this blackmail today. There will be blackmail tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and someone will once, they won't, they'll have to say - enough, we won't, we'll do what the Serbian citizens expect us to do. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution and all international conventions and declarations of human rights were also violated in this law. The Rules of Procedure were the most harshly broken; yesterday we talked enough about it, and I did not hear that someone noticed that the MPs on the agenda of this law had learned in some late TV diary from the president of the Assembly who appeared dressed in uniform at a football field and thus informed the MPs that they would discuss this law. As for the relationship of this law to international regulations, I would say it is most similar to the international regulations applied by the UN tribunal. There people have been sitting in theaters for years and no one thinks they're going to take any kind of action against them. That's right, here's our President, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, almost 15 months in The Hague; there he went because a completely baseless indictment against him was written by representatives of the former regime here in Serbia, and Carla del Ponte just signed it and no one, of course, is going to think of it, and he probably won't be running any proceedings against Vojislav Seselj, because those who received him at The Hague tribunal know he didn't commit any criminal acts that they tried to charge him with. Mr. Momcilo Krajisnik was in The Hague for four years and no one thought to begin proceedings against him. You, ladies and gentlemen, and you, Mr. Minister, are trying to create such a climate and such a situation in Serbia. So, according to this bill of yours, you'll be able to detain anyone because you have, of course, some particular reason, but you're going to burden him with some crime he needs to be detained under this law. That someone will be in custody for four years. The judges won't have to do anything. It will be enough to appear for those four years and to say that he and he killed this and that, as it is happening today, as political party representatives today inform the public that, I don't know, Zvezdan Jovanovic killed Zoran Djindjic, that, I don't know, Rade Markovic, the organised of the crime at the Ibar Masteral. Of course, I don't think it is, or it isn't, but it can't be spoken of that way, not respecting the presummation of innocence. Just to explain exactly what this presumption means, we have put the amendment on, my colleague Stevovic has put the amendment on Article 1 and he will certainly explain it to you in the light of his amendment. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled amendments to all the essential members of this law. We have made amendments to those members who are to be changed, and those changes only refer to the fact that instead of -- the SRJ, the community of Serbia-Montenegro -- or to the state prosecutor, it is written -- by the public prosecutor. It's not controversial, and everything else is controversial. In Article 2, you speak - the person deprived of liberty must be immediately informed in his language, etc. the reasons for the deprivement of freedom. I've submitted an amendment to this article, so I'm not going to explain it now. I'll talk about it when I talk about the amendment. In Article 8 of this proposal of the law, you have one nonsense, in point 5), states - if an exemption is applied for (requires a request for the exemption of judges) contrary to the provisions of Article 42(3) and Article 5(6) of this Code, or if it is clearly governed by a delay in proceedings, etc. It's interesting this-- obviously managed to delay the procedure. You, in this law, instead of giving some firm legal standards, are opening up the possibility of abuse by whoever is applying this law. Also, in this same point in the last sentence, it is said that a judge whose exemption is sought may take part in the adoption of this solution (thinking of the exemption solution) from the opening of the session. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. How can someone discuss the exception that applies to him? In article 9, you provided for witness tickets, from 10,000 you increased the fines to 100,000 dinars. This really is not fair to the economic strength of Serbian citizens, no matter how much it takes for someone to testify; they may have some reasons for not being willing to do so, or for a valid reason to interpret someone as unwarranted, but to pay a fine of 100,000 dinars is inappropriate. In Article 14 paragraph 1), you say - custody will be determined against the person suspected of committing a criminal offence for which a 40-year sentence has been prescribed by law, and you add in changes - if justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. This is completely unnecessary, because these particularly difficult circumstances are already an integral part of a criminal being. There's no need to talk about it that way in this law. The essence of this law is an extension of detention from two to four years, and then another year, so one year times two, yesterday we learned from the representatives of the SRS, that it was a total of 7.5 years of detention until the decision was made. This provision was very comprehensively spoken about by counterpart Stevovic, and it resembles the UN tribunal's provisions most. It would be better, Mr. Minister, if you'd changed this law in a way that ensures more effective conduct of criminal proceedings, no matter what the situation in the judiciary is. You are the minister who has accepted the obligation that the state of justice of the office and you have to do it another way, not in such a way as to hold people in custody for so long; I do not mean personally, of course, but based on the bill that you have made. In Article 23, you're talking about a mandatory defender. Again, this joins me in that unfortunate Lazarevic who tried to force himself as a lawyer. Shasser. Of course, you all know, the whole Serbian and European public, how it went. In the final position of this newspaper member that you have predicted - if the request is made, the investigative judge will decide on the appointment of a doctor who will carry out the examination. The decision and the record of the doctor's hearing will be submitted by the investigative judge to the investigation files. This is completely pointless. The doctor isn't here as a witch. I guess by all international conventions, a person under arrest has the right to a personal physician. You're not even talking about finding a doctor here. You're talking about something that doesn't have room in this provision. In Article 41 which speaks of Article 449 of the basic law, otherwise, something was envisaged that is inappropriate for both our legal system and our criminal law, i.e. it is entirely contrary to the general principles of criminal proceedings, which is the contract. In the position of the 1st member, it was -- for crimes for which fines can be imposed as the main penalty, the judge may, on a proposal from the state (now public) prosecutor, make a solution to the punishment and without holding the main search. You've added here that it applies - or to a prison sentence of up to three years. We of the SRS think that no agreements can be the subject of criminal law, but rather, that criminal law is applied in accordance with the criminal offences committed and in accordance with the circumstances established by the court in the case. From all that you've predicted in this law, gentlemen of the DSS, you must never again say that you are legalists and that you care about the legal order, to the legal certainty of the citizens. Because you showed, if these were your principles, at least declaratively, that you gave up these principles for a little bit of power, and how they started blackmailing you seems like we won't have to ask for a government discharge, you'll go on your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3620	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3621	I'm not gonna hold back, I just see that there's been a little delusion in the previous speaker about some explanations. First of all, I thank you for your opinion of my expertise, but believe me, I am not like my predecessor that I can discuss all things, nor do I have any intention. It is said here that this law is a product of blackmail. I need to inform you that immediately after I arrived at the Ministry, seeing that nothing was done, I have established working groups in line with the solution to form a council for judicial reform. One of those working groups, composed of professors, judges, prosecutors and lawyers, has done this draft. Therefore, it is not about any blackmail, since the draft was completed and delivered to the government for consideration. That's for your information. There's one more thing that's making me a little nervous. You say no plea bargain. Everywhere in the world when it comes to minor crimes, it is about young people, etc., it is not necessary to conduct a procedure if it can be solved in some other way. This is where the possibility is now given, and the dissatisfaction already with the statement of the objection goes into action. No one can be damaged. I'm giving you an example that I know you're familiar with. In municipal courts, almost 70% of cases end with a conditional conviction, there are a good number of court notices. In this situation, it is really unnecessary to conduct a procedure, to make large costs and especially to expose those young persons to certain procedures, to sit on the defendant's bench, if there is a possibility of giving parole from the facts that exist and it is apparent that this will be the result. He who is dissatisfied declares his objection and goes into it. Therefore, this is not an obstacle to such behaviour and if it is applied in practice, as another detail that you do not say, if the courts begin to respect the other means of security of presence, which is a guarantee, I think it will be significantly less even detention. Well, thank you, that's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3622	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3623	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure. That, of course, doesn't mean that some of us who are lawyers, and we're part of that parliamentary group, will have no objection to this text of the law. The text of the law has both good and bad sides. I would like to welcome the provisions of Article 2 of this Act, where rights of the deprived person are really decidently regulated, to take the defender of his choice, to attend the hearing, which is otherwise a constitutional category but not applied, to require that he be examined at all times by the doctor, and all that is necessary and necessary in order to be able to exercise the right of defence of the person in custody. I would especially refer to article 16, because I think he deserves to order a comment. I'm not going to mention the authors of a book, which has special connections to the custody matter, and where it comes to the detention of an African country that isn't something exclusive, it's called Nigeria, where someone was in custody and when the warden asked him in custody -- well, why are you always unhappy, there you have cigarettes, regular food, where you sleep, he said -- sir, I've been in custody for two years, and so I'd like you to judge me. So that's the set of whoever's in custody. He's not convicted. He doesn't have a charge. He has a procedure that is conducted against him, which he often refers to. I must tell you that, regardless of constitutional provisions, the first exam of the defendant should be attended by the defendant. It's been very rarely done, and now it's been done more and more often. So that's the set of a man we say cannot be claimed guilty until a judicial verdict is established. The detention, of course, is not a penalty, not a penalty. I always fear when detention is so determined that it could turn into some kind of penalty and penalty measure, which perhaps part of the public expects, which is sometimes severely damaged by some criminal act, however, independent of that part of the public, state justice must not be such that detention has a penalty character. So, some kind of extension of the detention, especially if it's big, especially if it's undefined, and there's, unfortunately, as I've heard it, it turns into nothing but punishment. I'd like to consider what our Constitution says about it. These provisions of the Constitution will not be subject to change and they truly meet all criteria and standards. Serbia's constitution in Article 16 is quite precisely limiting, and it is multiple, not without reason, detention. He says - only if it's necessary to conduct a criminal procedure or the safety of people. Furthermore, the duration must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. Furthermore, the Constitution accurately determines in the proceedings before the indictment, meaning until the indictment, that detention may take a maximum of six months. These are provisions that we must abide by when we norm anything in this law. If we mention international provisions, such as the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, where it is said that each person has the right to be tried without great delay, then the Declaration on the rights of a man who speaks of the right of everyone to an effective trial could draw one general conclusion that detention must take as short a time as possible. Any extension requires a truly and definitely detailed explanation, which must be preceded by detailed analysts why the detention, as prescribed, is now not long enough and why it needs to be extended. Well, then, if we determine from that analysis that it should be extended, why for exactly two years. Why at that stage? Why not for a year? Why not in six years? Maybe there's an excuse for that. So, to me, the text of a law that does not contain analysis does not give me the basis to assess whether the time limit proposed by the motionor here is cellificate or not, and raises me to doubt whether the Constitution is fully respected, if the Constitution requires that detention be reduced to the shortest necessary time. I am truly fascinated by the position that Mr. Minister has rightly expressed here, that there are three types of views on whether detention should last this long or so, so as to be the first position or the first group of views, he expressed the position of the representatives of the authorities who are probably in courts or in the prosecutions and who are involved in organised crime. They had a fascinating attitude. I think I understood him well - that custody should not be disarmed. It's a very fascinating attitude for me, and I thank the Minister for saying such a thing. It shows us - if there were prosecutors and judges sitting there, then it would be a sad attitude of judges and prosecutors who did not read the Constitution. It's sad for me. I would suggest to Mr. Minister that these judges and prosecutors be given a lecture, that they should be taught, when they judge, that there is a Constitution, that there is a law, and that their opinion, which may be controversial or undeniable, is far below that and that it does not apply in conflict with the Constitution and the law. He's no older court than the Constitution and the law. I'm afraid, if we think like that, it's going to lead to total anarchy, and I'm kind of starting to get scared, because we've really been passing organisational laws, to really make it possible for one autonomy within the judiciary, which is very good. I'm really very supportive of that, as someone who works here as a lawyer. But I'm afraid, if he really has opinions like this, and I hear he does, that we need to think about what laws we're making in the future, with a particular reference to how much autonomy can move within that independent system. So, can she be outside the Constitution and outside the law, outside the profession and out of work. Well, I'd be willing not to be outside the Constitution and outside the law, outside the profession and out of work. So I think that this law, and in particular these provisions concerning the extension of detention, had to be taken into account not only that, at least it seems to me, and I'm going to allow myself the right to assess it, because I'm a MP, it seems to me that a special department of the District Court or a special department, which deals with this very complex problem, has great conditions to do so, extraordinary conditions. It is likely that no court in Serbia has had such conditions in Serbia's history so far. But I'm also afraid he's nowhere near doing what your terms do. On the other hand, it doesn't put enough effort and not enough expertise into it, and I'm afraid that's where the most professional judges are chosen, that these proceedings end in time and in accordance with the law. We were all witnesses, unfortunately, and fellow lawyers took part in it, which can't raise our profession, that there have been trials in the trials, where some judges of special courts have removed those excesses and some have suffered a blow to the purses, so they broke the procedure. If that's why we're changing these laws, then I'm against these laws changing because of it. Let such judges be replaced. It's simpler. What else could I say? I don't think we care about the consistency of the legal system. We have the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Constitution, which restricts detention to six months in the proceedings pending the indictment. What does that mean? This means that if we are now continuing in the phase of the first-degree debate for another two years, it will be four years, it turns out that the investigation will. the procedure in which the most difficult part of the criminal proceedings is carried out, where the material is practically collected for what is to be tried, to last for a multiple period of time. I don't think that's justified, and that we need the longest period of detention to be exactly the time limit it takes to conduct an investigation, which is six months. Well, whoever fits in, and whoever doesn't, you change judges. When we pass these procedural laws, I have to say it because I think it's important for this Parliament, it's practically the only way that we institutionally control whether the courts work in accordance with the law, the Constitution, whether they judge on the basis of the profession and whether they respect that profession. That waist can be seen through the deadlines we set for them. If we give them too many deadlines, they will abuse citizens' rights by working too long. So, when we pass procedural laws, we must make sure that the deadlines are appropriate and that the courts are effective and that citizens are not threatened by the length of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3624	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word, and let the People's MP Slobodan Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3625	Dear People's MPs, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure is another manipulation of the authorities. There is no reason for such proposed changes and the least reason for urgency. First of all, I'll look back at the article. 14, 15 and 16 amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the duration of detention. Incarceration, I hope you all know, is a preventive deprivation of the freedom of the person against whom there is a reasonable suspicion that he committed a crime, if it is necessary for the conduct of the criminal proceedings and for the safety of the people. Whether he's bound or he's college-bound, he's determined by the court, and only by an exceptional decision by the second law of a certain authority. So detention is one necessary measure that has to last as soon as possible, because otherwise there would be no difference between this institute and the prison sentence. The lawyers know that. When it comes to punishment, the person is pleaded guilty and punished, and the detained person until then is presummated by his innocence. The following status of detainees doesn't change much more, even if a person due to the amount of sentence imposed stays in custody for a while, because until the justice of the sentence given to him is considered not a prisoner but a person in custody. Which is why we would be vulgarizing this necessary measure to that extent and to that degree to accept the elements of the prison sentence, which she is not and must not be, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister. I believe that the proposer of these changes is directly attacking the Serbian Constitution and the judicial authorities with the extension of detention. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, detention must be reduced to the minimum necessary time and must be as short as possible. What does it mean to you, gentlemen of the government, that the time of four years is short? It's short for you, because it fits into your involvement, in the work of the judicial authorities, and you don't know, and you won't know that you underestimate those organs multiplely. First of all, you don't let the judicial authorities work by law, you don't trust the judicial authorities, or their work and their urgency, which will be imposed as a permanent problem if you've already tied their hands. You gentlemen don't know what you're doing. You, in addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure, provide for the participation of a judge whose exemption is required in making an exception! If it wasn't sad, it would be funny, because that solution is not in the spirit of general legal regulations. It's a non-democratic act of a government that's supposed to be filled with the mouth of democracy. Such a solution is not in the spirit of criminal proceedings, and it is in direct contrast to the basic principle of criminal law, the principle of material truth, because it is the aim of a criminal procedure to come to the full truth, which will depend on the adoption of a fair sentence. I ask you how will the judge determine the truth if he is biased and if he himself participates in his exception? This solution is the highlight of the proposal's will. In Article 12, you introduce a new position which provides that the costs of a pre-cover procedure will be borne by the internal affairs authority, which will, of course, produce a very negative effect in the conduct of the pre-taste procedure, because the pre-taste procedure will be carried out superficially, all in terms of reducing the costs incurred by the internal affairs authorities. Article 13 of the Amendment and addition of the Criminal Procedure Act introduces dragon penalties for experts and witnesses. You're increasing your fines from 10,000 to incredible 100,000 dinars. Such an increase in punishment is not appropriate to our terms or material opportunities of the experts and witnesses, so they will not be able to pay the penalty, and that punishment is nothing but a robbery, so witnesses and witches will have to go to prison, which is beyond any common sense. You only have left, if you hold on to the profession, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to withdraw this law. This is what Serbian radicals tell you. Listen to the voices of Serbian radicals, voices of reason, and stop manipulating the judiciary, because there is no reason to bring these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3626	The People's MP Slobodan Vučković has the word, and let the MP Miljko Četrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3627	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law is going in one completely wrong direction. Instead of the government focusing on the assistance and efficiency of the judiciary, to concentrate on the court being better, faster, more efficient, we have a situation to tolerate and not only to tolerate, but to extend such a situation, that the chamber is absolutely supported. That's one question. The second question is how is one of these important laws being passed again quickly, quickly, over the knee, without consulting with the general professional and professional public. I get calls from a large number of our top experts, judges, lawyers, who ask what's going on, we have no idea, we hear about some big changes, some new rigor that's against the intensity of the Council of Europe that we've been admitted to, which will lead to uncertainty, etc. No one knows anything. We now hear from the minister that there was a circle of experts involved in the adoption of this proposal. I'm going to brighten up the work of those experts a little later because some important and difficult failures were made, grammatically and logically, in the text of this law. There was no reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia to burden us with the Law on the prevention of conflicts of public interest which God knows when to come into force and which is not of great importance. Namely, he suffers great criticism from the public. We have recently debated the Law of Infractions as a priority, instead of first discussing one of these big laws that encroachs on the freedom and rights of citizens and which should be our first concern not only for ourselves but also for the world that looks at us well and observes what's going on here. The solutions offered here are quite drastic. It has already been pointed out - the detention of seven and a half years; some disciplinary measures in the conduct of the procedure; 10 times the increased fine, for which there is no justification; but, let us now and concretely. You have point 9 in Article 2. A proposal, where it is said that faces are entitled to claim compensation for unfounded deprivement of freedom. This is a consensual right in relation to Article 14. The law, which does not change, which says it has the right not only to compensation for damages, but to rehabilitate and other rights laid down by law. So you within the same law have two solutions that are absolutely incompatible, or not complete. They do not match, and they doubt what one who is guilty, or deprived of liberty, has the right. The second thing, paragraph 3, is added in the same article, so it is said, given the provision of Article 2, that the person who is deprived of liberty has the right to initiate proceedings in which the competent investigating judge will urgently examine the legality of his detention, etc. In the previous position, which remains, it is said that every detained person has to be executed urgently before the investigative judge. What is there to address and to initiate proceedings before an investigative judge for his unfounded detention, when the previous position provides that he is to be arrested urgently by an investigative judge? It doesn't make any sense. In addition, what is the undemocratic right for the accused person to be deprived of liberty to initiate some procedure to prove unwarranted imprisonment, and it is brought before an investigative judge? It is not the duty of an investigative judge, it is required as a representative of the government, a representative of the state, the one who guarantees the legal application of the rules, to immediately see if anyone is legally or illegally deprived of liberty and to free him. Since it makes sense to initiate some proceedings before an investigative judge, before whom someone has already been brought and made a statement. So one provision that is absolutely not understandable. Now I wonder what kind of fellow experts are, probably working fast, what kind of things have they missed? Furthermore, I must say that in Article 48. The bill of law states that art as a sentence does not have a logical and grammatical connection with the member himself. Therefore, I warn that it is necessary to correct it. Furthermore, if there were seriousness and there was professional work on this law, couldn't the head of 29a, which speaks of organised crime, and where do you have in Article 504 almost 30 letters (504a, 504b, 504g), to settle this law, but it remains as one sloppy consequence of work? Couldn't the law be settled from the point of view of a normal and written law, as required? There are other mistakes that are not covered. For example, this law should include Article 504z, which states in point 2: "The witness procedure will be suspended until the main search". Everyone who's been working on this law, and I've been in a relationship with them, says it's one grammatical mistake, that it doesn't make any sense, and that it should stand out: "to the end of the main search." Really, as it's written, it doesn't make any sense. As far as detention is concerned, we have given the amendment to the provision of point 5) where it is said: "if justified, if the serious consequences" etc. That should be lifted. My colleagues here have been very argumentative about this. If this remains a reserve for the sake of this, I would like to say that it would be necessary for the legislator himself to enter that the circumstances of justification and the difficult consequences that the court finds must be explained in detail. We know from practice that courts are the easiest to say that it is justified under circumstances, severe consequences etc. and do not explain, so that such a solution to the detention is very difficult to examine, or impossible to examine. Then it comes to the fact that the Supreme Court over time gives way to such practices of district courts and that further illegalities arises. I think this is one law that, if passed, should be temporary. Looks like he's serving a political moment. It may have to be accepted at this hour, maybe, I don't know, it'll depend on most of it here, but I don't think it's going to be long and it's not going to be an honor to the promoters.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3628	The word of the Messenger of the people is Miljko Četrovic; let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3629	Dear People's MPs, two days from now, the regular session of the Assembly stands out, and it seems that this regular session should end at midnight, whether Friday night or Saturday, with amendments and additions to the key laws that the government is proposing by emergency procedure. Unfortunately, one of those three who are on the agenda is the amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's no minister here, it wasn't sincere, but I'm not surprised, I'll be convinced that he wasn't telling the truth -- that this kind of amendment and the addition of the law isn't under pressure on the agenda, and this is the text of the law itself. It is not true that he is not being blackmailed, that this law, in fact, does not concern individuals who are now in custody, who would be very dangerous if they were released from custody on the expiry of the legal deadlines, because they are not sentenced to time sentences by law. One of these individuals is Rade Markovic. It seems that those who held off the work of the Assembly yesterday are five hours afraid of Radet Markovic, the former head of state security, and other his associates. He probably knows a lot about a lot of people, what it was all about, what it was about, many crimes and many misdemeanors in Serbia. But there is no problem with the ineffectiveness of Serbia's criminal justice in the Criminal Procedure Act. The problem is the very functioning of Serbia's courts. Such a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law in some way justify the ineffectiveness of both first-degree and second-degree courts, and in particular amnesty is the Supreme Court of Serbia, which is the greatest culprit and is responsible for this situation in criminal justice. All of these provisions, through amendments and additions to the law, are effectively extending the deadlines, starting with the detention that (as Deputy Chief of our parliamentary group Vukic said yesterday) could last seven and a half years. It cannot be accepted, I come from the King, that for the heavy robbery that caused the death of the entire family in six years can't come to a judicial verdict. Where's the justice, where's the truth? Also, it cannot be accepted that Minister Jocic, Interior Minister, has set priorities for the management and efficiency of certain criminal proceedings, so he mentions Curuvija, Djindjic, I don't know, and others. For me, it's much harder and the bigger consequence is that the unhappy mother of that girl who died when Vesenov was driving a 100-mile-a-hour jeep through downtown Belgrade. No one mentions it, and it is a disgrace, a disgrace to those who did and to those who exercise authority. There are many such unhappy parents or children, no one mentions them. Justice and laws are not for those who exercise power, and especially for those who exercise power against the interests of the people and the state and who, in breach of the laws, want to protect themselves in fact by changing and supplementing these same laws. Here, the minister mentioned a conditional conviction and the possibility that such procedures should go faster and that 70% of the cases allegedly end with conditional convictions. It is an accident of criminal justice in Serbia, because unfortunately, many cases where there are evidence and material truths for the imposition of time sentences, according to agreements and links between people from the MUP, lawyers, judges, end with conditional convictions. The aim of any punishment or conviction should be not only repression or revenge against the perpetrator, but also a lesson for others not to do such acts. With such a situation in the judiciary, with such amendments to the law, we have over 150 laws in Serbia where criminal acts are foreseen; no one thinks, from the previous government, nor now, to codify criminal legislation. The legislation of Western Europe is mentioned. Serbia was also in the 19th century, and especially in the 20th century, it had criminal laws that were equal to the previously provided criminal laws of Europe. Unfortunately, with a whole system of justice, with legislation like this, with this kind of attitude of people who are responsible for the management of justice, we're just going forward and going down. That injustice and infidelity more in justice by ordinary people, citizens in court... There used to be a notion, especially when the court was mentioned, the judge, with respect, people entered the Court of Justice. Can it be called the Palace of Justice in Belgrade where Batic placed the monument of Emperor Dusan, is it the Palace of Justice? Here, a reference is made to witnesses, namely, from 10,000 to 100,000, and if you know the situation, especially lawyers, how many people are running away, simply though the eyewitness of an event says he didn't see it, because he won't and can't testify. It's a tragic situation we've been in for years. And now, in addition to that, there's a count of 10,000 to 100,000 witnesses. It's not the minister here, I wanted to ask him, and it's not on this agenda, but it's about the area of justice, about the enforcement of the law that he was defending, about amending the law on courts and on prosecutors, what has been done specifically to correct those injustices that were passed in the previous period. I didn't get that answer, although I asked him that question when there was a debate on those laws. The SRS, it is said here, will not support such a bill, because in fact it does not improve any condition, nor will Serbia's courts be more effective. On the contrary, there will be an even greater ineffectiveness, and deeds will be infinite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3630	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3631	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the explanation of the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we see that they are in line with certain international conventions and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights that we have adopted in this House, means, with the most important international conventions that regulate human rights issues, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Convention that regulates torture issues. In this sense, I do not understand the mention of this speaker that the proposed amendments represent a return to the Middle Ages, the 17th century, that they are a step backwards in the fields of human rights, if the provisions of the above-mentioned conventions are clearly indicated with which the proposed amendments of the Codes are agreed. In any event, the proposed changes represent progress both in the position of the suspect in the pre-criminal proceedings and in the conduct of the criminal proceedings itself. And when all these proposed amendments of the Code are observed, they have this very result, meaning, improving the position of the suspect and the accused and the efficiency of the criminal proceedings. But let's start with some solutions. When it comes to amending Article 3. The Code of Criminal Procedure, where a definition has been given so far that no one can be found guilty until it has been found guilty by a judicial verdict, I can point out that in the previous theoretical debates on whether it was considered a presummation of innocence or not most of our respected legal theorists felt that it was not respected as a presummation of innocence and that no one could be found guilty and that it was considered innocent is not the same. Right now, the proposed amendment -- that everyone will be considered innocent until his guilt is determined by a judicial decision -- is an improvement. It was precisely the question of the position of the suspect and the defendant and whether he was considered innocent until a judicial verdict was reached was very controversial so far. We are all witnessing that there was no regulation in Serbia that prohibits the public pressure that exists during the trial. Generally, the pressure existed through the media, inspired by certain political entities, if the proceedings were against individual political opponents or non-sanitary ones. In Europe, the issue of banning public pressure on the suspect or accused during the procedure has been regulated. It was precisely because of the problem that this regulation was not passed, that we had a situation that most of the defendants, until the case was closed, had already been found guilty in public, and it was difficult besides this public pressure to imagine that the courts would make decisions that would eventually be released from the responsibility of such a person. Therefore, this solution is that everyone is considered innocent until his guilt is determined by a judicial verdict - well, because it will significantly change the position of the accused during the proceedings. And, of course, in some future period, we expect to amend the criminal code in that part, which, especially when it comes to detention, is not adequate to this definition. When it comes to disabling torture in a pre-crisis procedure, and the suspects have been exposed so far to the deprivement of freedom, these provisions of Article 5, which are being changed, are indeed a promotion. So, the person deprived of his freedom, in addition to being presented to him for reasons of deprivement of liberty, must present himself with what is put on his burden when he is deprived of his freedom. This is very important, since it allows the suspect to give an adequate statement, and in some ways he has already begun his defense in a pre-crisis procedure. Not to mention the fact that he must be allowed to speak to the defender uninterruptedly and that the defender must attend his hearing, and that his disincentives should be notified of the person of his choice. It's very important, because it should allow the suspect to address and contact the person he trusts most. The problem of torture that has existed so far in the pre-crisis procedure should not particularly be highlighted here. All you have to say is "Sabbe" action. Someone here said why "Sabre" was mentioned. It is necessary to mention the action of "Sabbe" and to mention the position of suspects and detained persons, so the persons deprived of freedom during the procedure; as the contact with the defender was disabled and how it was prevented from contacting the defender and how the classical extortion of the testimony occurred. It is precisely the absence of these provisions that are now being introduced into the amendments and additions of the law that allows for those statements corresponding to the police to occur during the first hearing of the suspect with one classical manipulation. As for the provisions that regulate the effectiveness of the criminal procedure itself and giving the judge more opportunities to manage the procedure, it has been repeatedly highlighted and criticised for increasing the penalties for witnesses, for defenders, for experts. I would like, as someone who has worked in practice, to point out that most of these punishment solutions that have been made either because the witness has not responded to the call, either because the expert has not done his findings in good time or that the defender is missing from the search, were mostly put out of force, because these penalties that have been prescribed so far have affected one part of the prevention. The witness does not respond to the call, the expert does not make a timely finding, the judge sentences the sentence; after that, the witness appears mainly at the hearing and puts the sentence out of force. The increase in this sentence will mainly have the preemptive effect that witnesses, faced with the fact that the level of punishment is threatened, will respond to the court's call. When it comes to detention, in the light of the proposed amendments to the laws when we talk about grounds for detention, mandatory and optional, we see that the issue of mandatory detention, detention that must be imposed if a criminal offence is committed, for which a sentence of up to 40 years is provided for by law, is in some way relatable. So there's a provision -- if that's justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the work. We see in the light of this law that it is in accordance with international conventions, and in that sense we have no reason not to trust the legislator that it is. However, I would like to point out that during the criminal proceedings itself, there was a problem of reason for the detention of certain suspects or accused persons. The provisions set out in the Code of Criminal Procedure are mainly by the judges, and the pressure of the police, abused and widely interpreted, and detention is the measure of ensuring the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings. We had a case, and especially in the previous period, that a large number of suspects and defendants were detained, although the real reasons for the security of the presence did not exist. In this regard, it takes the education of judges to interpret these provisions more restrictively and to really detain persons who have the possibility to prevent the investigation process from being investigated and to bring the search itself to an end. When it comes to provisions, and this is also mentioned here, about the right to a doctor, great abuses existed in the previous period on this very matter. It was precisely the fact that there was no obligation of medical examination in the pre-crisis procedure, and we see that it is now being introduced, that it was possible for the police to use force, by extortion, to come up with a statement that corresponds to it, and the suspect, afraid of the threat that existed, avoided reporting to the investigating judge whether torture was done to him and in what way he was making a statement in the course of the proceedings. I would like to point out an important provision to be introduced here, which is a provision that now the public prosecutor, but with the court's consent, may delay criminal prosecution for crimes for which a fine or sentence of three years is intended. Under the current law, before these changes, this was a great authority of the prosecutor, who could have had an extreme arbitration effect on the course of the proceedings and that some persons were in fact released from prosecution, amnesty. It is precisely the fact that this must now be done with the court's consent that this great authority of the prosecutor is being controlled. Of course, it is a good provision that those individuals who are in some way dependent, for example. of alcohol, intoxicating drugs, allows them to undergo certain treatments and to be resociated in another procedure. I would point out another provision that has been a problem in criminal proceedings so far, and that is the deadline for preparing the defence. Although it is prescribed in the Code of Criminal Procedure as an eight - day period, it is largely not respected. Davan or a shorter time limit, and if a search was to be carried out and requested a delay because a shorter deadline was mostly not followed by judges. The deadline for the most serious crimes is now extended to at least 15 days; we think it is a good solution, because there are crimes whose complexity of defence cannot be prepared within such a short period of time. These provisions, regardless of the criticism sent from this speaker, are progress and we believe that in this direction, the amendments to criminal legislation will continue to take place further towards the protection of human rights and the position of the suspect and the defendant himself. In that sense, the DSS will support these changes, with the hope of making the judiciary more effective and that all these decisions and procedures will be affected by these proposed changes, that they end as soon as possible, and that this provision that speaks of the extension of detention will in fact not be brought to life in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3632	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3633	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's time we gave this text of the law all the seriousness this bill deserves. So, we've been discussing all the time without the minister's presence, practically since the beginning of the session, we've been arguing in a half-empty room. Please gather around. So I ask that, on the basis of Article 82(6), the quorum is established and that we really continue to work as is the case with the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3634	You asked us to determine the quorum. Please insert the cards into your identification units. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Please confirm the quorum. Put your cards in your voting units. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. National MP Natasa Jovanovic is not here. The People's Messenger is Istvan Takac, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vojislav Milajić. Istvan Takatch isn't here. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3636	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion to amend and supplement this law is more like a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code than the Code of Criminal Procedure. The most extensive objections to the proposed changes and additions relate, above all, to the disciplinary, monetary punishment of the participants of the criminal proceedings and to the determination of the length of duration and the reasons for determining the detention, both mandatory and optional. As for fines, Article 82 provides that persons who refuse to hand over items or who refuse to receive items that may serve as evidence in criminal proceedings are punished up to 100,000 dinars, and if so again, they can be fined up to 100,000 dinars. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for (Articles 225 and 238) that, without an investigation, the M.O.P. may confiscate objects which may serve as evidence in criminal proceedings. Article 108 provides that if the witness does not come to the hearing, and he is neatly invited, or if he gets without reason away from the place where he is to be heard, or refuses to testify, he will fine up to 100,000 dinars. Article 115 provides similarly for a non-entity expert who has been properly invited, either refuses to give an opinion and opinion within the time limit provided for him by the investigative judge or president of the council. In addition to being punished by an expert with 100,000 dinars, an expert institution that performs art will be fined by a fine of up to 500,000 dinars. Article 263 - investigative judge can punish a person who violates order in an investigation with the same fine of up to 100,000 dinars. The president of the search council can also punish persons participating in a fine search of up to 100,000 dinars, except for the defendant. Finally, in Article 305, if the defender is unwarrantedly left behind and there is a delay in the main search, it will be fined up to 50,000 dinars, with the cost of postponing the main search. As regards detention, the grounds for determining detention and the duration of detention, Article 142 provides for reasons for determining detention, so the detention obligation is to be formulated as - custody will be determined. So, an imperative standard in which cases the detention will be determined. In point 1), detention is prescribed if a 40-year sentence is prescribed, so it is now added to the amendments and amendments to the law - if justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the act. The special circumstances of the act are thus contained, as soon as a 40-year sentence is threatened. It simply can't be, these are the most difficult forms of the most serious crimes. It's too high a formula - because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the work. They must be particularly difficult, as soon as it's threatened with 40 years in prison. Point 2) states the situation when a first-degree sentence and a person sentenced to five and more years in prison, and is at large, and due to the method of execution and other particularly difficult circumstances then the detention will be determined. The detention may be made optional for persons who are hiding, for whom it is necessary to establish identity, if there is a risk of escape, if there is a threat of destruction of evidence, the danger that the accused will influence witnesses or accomplices, if there is a danger that they will repeat or complete the crime already committed or threaten to commit a new crime and if the defendant avoids the main search. Amendments and additions also included the fifth option, which is - if the sentence of prison is prescribed for a criminal offence for over 10 years and if this is justified because of the method of execution or other particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. If there was already a need to tighten the conditions for giving this measure of security to the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings, then it was necessary to delete the first point of the 1st position; that is - the prescribed sentence of 40 years in prison, if that is justified by the difficult circumstances. This change consumes this first point of the first position. So, if the prescribed sentence is over 10 years, two conditions are required that it is justified: if justified because of the method of execution or other particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. In paragraph 1 of this Article, the following paragraph shall apply: In Article 2(2), the grounds for determining detention are procedural in nature and relate to criminal proceedings. Here is the problem of introducing a term - because of particularly difficult circumstances. Especially the difficult circumstances of an act cannot appreciate an investigative judge in an investigation, nor the criminally greater in deciding on the length of the detention. That's the only thing that can decide to search a bigger one. It is only relevant to decide on particularly difficult circumstances, as these circumstances may be of an impact on the level of criminal sanctions, i.e. punishment against the perpetrator of a criminal offence. Article 144 of the detention deadlines in the investigation have been established so that the investigative judge can determine the detention period for up to a month. A guilty council may extend it for another two months. The Serbian Supreme Court may decide to extend the detention period for another three months, if the sentence of prison can be imposed for more than five years and for some important reasons, which the court should explain. Article 146 further extends the detention deadlines, so that the detention may be extended after the indictment has been brought forward for another four years until the judicial verdict has been passed, and then another one year after the verdict has been passed, and two more years if a judicial verdict is lifted. A newspaper has also been introduced that there is a suspension of the time limit for determining the length of detention, which means - if there is a delay or interruption of the main search due to the defendant or defendant, then that time limit is interrupted and not included in the length of the detention period and then detention may continue longer than those deadlines. These are all extremely rigorous measures, and they are more of a reminder of the conduct of criminal policies than of the measures to ensure the presence of the accused. In the section of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a grading of the measures taken to ensure the presence of the accused in all phases of the criminal proceedings was made, starting with a call, detention, bailing, a ban on leaving the residence. Only in the end, as the most rigorous and most difficult measure, is the measure taken to determine the detention. The detention measure is also a constitutional category. She's in Article 16. The Constitution of the 1st position is defined, i.e. a person suspected of committing a criminal offence may only be detained if it is necessary to conduct a criminal proceedings or the safety of persons. In paragraph 2, the length of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. With this extension of the deadlines, he is the first to press charges to four years, until the first-degree verdict is passed, after a year from a first-degree verdict to a possible justice, and if the expiry of the sentence is further extended for two years, it is in the total sum of seven years. This is absolutely, for those seven years, contrary to this constitutional provision in Article 16(2), where detention is insisted that the shortest possible duration, and that is because a little is omitted from the view that detention is not a criminal measure. It's not the measure to punish the suspect. We need to understand that the defendant is not guilty until the verdict's due. No criminal policy can be conducted through detention. And if he wants to ensure the presence of the defendant during the entire criminal trial, there are other, lighter measures that can ensure his presence. One of these is provided for in Article 136. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which is a ban on leaving the residence. The measure is pronounced if the defendant wants to escape, hide, go to an unknown place or abroad. The court may state that measure in order to prevent it from leaving that residence and allow it to always be available to law enforcement authorities. Based on everything out of the blue, the SRS is making its reserves according to such proposals and will not be able to support the bill individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3637	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3638	How much time is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3639	28 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3640	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President-in-Office, a very important bill has entered the assembly procedure, although MPs and the National Assembly do not have enough time to prepare and an adequate response to this proposal by the Government to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure. We were witnessing that the MPs were the hostages of an attempt at mutual agreement within the ruling coalition to put this proposal for amending the law on the agenda. Although the Democratic Party will vote in favour of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, I believe that the proposed amendments are not fully consistent and that they do not meet the objectives for which the Code of Criminal Procedure was to be amended and complemented. The proposed amendments do not guarantee that it will include all the standards on which the rights of the European Union countries are based, that protection rights from international documents, guaranteed to citizens in criminal proceedings, are not respected, and therefore it is very important to realise the meaning and extent of the proposed changes. The proposed changes are contrary to the Constitutional Charter and to the law on its implementation, as the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter provides for the abolition, for example, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. military courts. Military courts have judges who do not choose the High Council of Justice, judges are not elected by the judges themselves, so they do not guarantee that the Code of Criminal Procedure will be followed consistently before a military court. In addition, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure provide for a request for the protection of legality before the Supreme Military Court to raise the Supreme Military Prosecutor. That says we'll have two different proceedings before the Supreme Military Court and military courts. Given that a different criminal procedure is envisaged in Serbia, in Montenegro, the issue arises that a major Supreme Military Court will decide in these proceedings depending on whether the defendant who comes before the court is an officer from Montenegro or an officer from Serbia. There is no country in the world where two criminal proceedings are applied in one court. I would ask the minister to pay attention to this remark and to answer me later. Which is why he did not propose to abolish military courts when the Constitutional Charter foresees the abolition of military courts, because there are administrative authorities there that have their command above them and that, together with the prosecutions and the security authorities, agree on both how to initiate and conduct the proceedings. The proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are inconsistencies for the following reasons. First of all, these changes were not preceded by a public debate in the professional public. The Society of Judges, lawyers, did not have the opportunity to get acquainted with the proposed amendments and to make them known, to give suggestions, objections in the part where human rights are violated, but also to support those changes that will help more effectively the work of the courts, the greater responsibility of the participants, or parties in the process, so as not to distort that balance between obligations and rights in the criminal proceedings itself. In this way, as proposed now, obligations are imposed only on one side, only on the defendants and the defenses. On the other hand, the prosecution and the court do not suffer any consequences if they divulge the procedure; law enforcement authorities that very often retain and prevent the timely execution of evidence, especially when they need to give their expert opinion on these evidence; the Institute of Security, which is under the patronage of the Ministry of Interior, so many of the defendants sit unjustly in custody, in the investigation, until evidence is obtained from the Institute of Security. There is an unwarranted length of detention in the investigation when the prosecution puts an application for a large number of evidence that is not in any way related to the request to conduct an investigation. This is the abuse of procedural powers for which the proposed amendments and the current law do not provide a solution. The abuse of all participants in criminal proceedings must be prevented equally and all the measures proposed must equally enable the prohibition and inability to prevent the effective conduct of the proceedings on the one hand, when it is in the interest of the accused or the defence, but on the other hand to impose an obligation on the state authorities to act on a timely basis. The law did not respond to an existing, very unfavourable situation by citizens of Serbia, which is that the person suspected, against whom a criminal report has been filed, may be constantly under suspicion and criminal charges, and that those facts are being misused in public against the damages of the reported person. It was therefore necessary for the Minister of Justice to propose, in its proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, a certain duration and obligation for a public prosecutor in order to hand over a decision on the file and that the person declared has the possibility to receive notice from the competent public prosecutor within six months that a complaint has been filed against him, that it has been decided and that the application has been either accepted or rejected. In this way, there is a possibility that security services may abuse their powers in the process by submitting anonymous applications, keeping them in the drawer and constantly providing data on the submission of the report to the person reported. Otherwise, standards in developing countries are that no one can be subject to criminal charges for an unlimited duration or to the limitations of the process, which is usually twice the time of the threat of criminality, which is inadmissible. The bill also failed to impose a public prosecutor's obligation to disclose evidence. What does that mean? This means that the state authorities leading the proceedings, either pre-crisis or some of the investigative actions in those proceedings, come up with different evidence, both to those who are going to the burden charged in accordance with the submitted application and to those evidence that goes in favour of the defendant. There must be a law on the obligation of a state authority, i.e. a public prosecutor, that all evidence that he has obtained in the process of collecting or verifying criminal charges would be subject to an obligation, except that the investigating judge tells the defendant of what the prosecutor is charged with, which the evidence was collected in accordance with the submitted application and the submitted request to initiate the proceedings, to inform him of the evidence that the defendant is benefiting from and which he can use in his defence. It is one of the democratic achievements in the developing countries of Europe. I expected the concept of criminal proceedings to change, which is to move the investigation from the investigating judge to the public prosecutor. In this way, the courts would be relieved of the unnecessary conduct of many proceedings and the collection of evidence and unnecessary ineffectiveness of the courts and the investigations themselves until the indictment was brought up. This is important because of one psychological moment, and that's the relation of the defendant to the judge. Where a court has the right to propose and perform evidence on the basis of an investigative principle, the defendant has the feeling that the court is against him. In essence, the court must be above all procedural parties and the parties to the proceedings should also be accused, that on the basis of the disputed principle, the facts of the decision-making process are being discussed, and that it is the Court's decision-making and decision-making. In this way, you have an imbalance between the procedural sides. On one side of the defense, and on the other side of the prosecution along with the judge, which is not good. As far as detention is concerned, I agree with the proposed amendments that in complex cases concerning the most serious criminal acts of detention the need to last longer and that the limitation of the length of detention should not be an obstacle that will make it impossible for the court to properly determine the facts and to carry out all the necessary evidence. However, I do not agree that the Code of Criminal Procedure continues as a reason for determining detention to be particularly circumstances that indicate that the accused will repeat the crime. It's inadmissible and it's contrary to the principle of presumption of innocence. If there is an assumption of innocence, then the assumption is that no one will commit crimes and will obey the law. Therefore, the assumption that someone will commit a crime and that it is therefore necessary to determine the detention is unacceptable from the point of view of the democratic principles and standards reached. That's why I'm proposing, and in the light of the amendment, I've submitted that this part of the provision establishing the basis for determining detention should be removed from the law. I also find it inappropriate that the deadlines which determine the maximum length of detention should be moved because of the conduct of the defence, because of the delay in the search or termination of the power of attorney. I am particularly opposed, because the bill does not provide for how this will be decided, who will decide and no two-stage procedure is envisaged. The very way it will be decided is not envisaged, which opens up great opportunities for abuses and for pressure on the judge to extend detention and beyond the legislation of the prescribed frameworks, when it finds that there were circumstances in relation to delaying proceedings. I was just talking about abolishing military courts. The minister spoke, so I want to underline it one more time. I believe that the government's obligation was to attach military courts to regular courts, as special departments, because there is no reason for Serbian citizens to respond to the same crimes before courts of different kinds, depending on whether they are military or civil persons. I reiterate that the amendment of this Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that the Supreme Military Prosecutor before the Supreme Military Court will file an application for the protection of legality, so we will have two proceedings before the investigation court, which is unacceptable. This is contrary to both the Constitutional Charter and the law on its implementation, as well as to any international documents guaranteeing citizens' rights to participate in criminal proceedings before the court on equal terms. There is no reason for such an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure to be made in the proposal submitted, so that this change was left without justification. It seems to me that the minister has tried to drag this change through a small door because he does not believe in the Constitutional Charter and the law on its implementation and the obligation to abolish military courts, as provided for by the Constitutional Charter. Unbelief in the common state of Serbia-Montenegro is also shown in the names of some authorities that are to take action under this law, and it is said in the explanation that the future of the state union is uncertain, and therefore there is no place for the human rights ministry, which is located in the Council of Ministers, in this law, because it is possible that the state union will not be in connection with the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is also incorrect to argue from the reasoning of the draft law that no additional means are needed for its implementation. The minister himself said in his proposal that there was no charge for compulsory defence in a pre-crisis procedure before law enforcement authorities, and that the obligation to pay those funds is now in line with the amendments to the law. In view of the fact that, in accordance with this law, those funds which have been unjustly deprived to defenders in a pre-crisis procedure will be paid, I believe that additional resources are also needed, that they should have been written and budgeted in the budget. This way, this law will cause certain imbalances in the budget. Otherwise, the right to compulsory defence, the right of any participant in criminal proceedings to have the right to an attorney and the right to free legal assistance, is one of the principles proposed by the DS in the amendment of the Republic Constitution and this came to the general consensus of the then constitutional commission. I think this law should also respond to free legal aid, because it is one of the principles on which criminal proceedings are based in developed democratic countries. The right to free legal assistance, professional assistance, is one of the conditions on which our right and our legislation should be brought into line with European Union law. On the other things, I will plead in particular, with regard to amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group, and I myself. I just want to tell the current parliamentary majority, the coalition in power and the minister of justice that they should adhere consistently to the Code of Criminal Procedure, not to use their political position and that they are unjustly putting political pressure on their political inexperiences. This happened last week in Belgrade, days ago, when political pressure was made, with the abuse of procedural powers, according to the city government's president, Mr. Nenad Bogdanovic, a member of the city's government and vice-president of the city's government of Belgrade, with a hindrance and a transfer of the truth that it was about detaining and calling for an informative conversation between these people. Therefore, any abuse of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be prevented. It should also refrain from the unmoved statements used by Mr. Marscanin in his pre-election campaign, which, in front of various businesses in Serbia, promises to pass judgments on privatisation and condemning judgments for those who privatised certain companies, besides courts, which speaks of political pressure on the judiciary. It is strange that the list of companies whose privatisation review is required coincides with a tour of Mr. Marsicanin; he talks to each gate of these companies about judicial proceedings where he will carry out the appropriate verdict. While individuals from the DSS group are calling me, I would also like to mention Mr. Mihajlov's misrepresentation in connection with the official DSS statement on the perpetrators of the biggest crime - the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic, where Mr. Mihajlov pointed to certain perpetrators at the press conference, to the knowledge that individuals know who killed Prime Minister Djindjic. I believe that a party that advocates the consistent application of the Code of Criminal Procedure should refrain from such political attacks, with the abuse of just such a significant law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3641	Replica, Dusan Prophetovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3642	Mr Ristic, first of all, did not hear presidential candidate Dragan Marsican say the government, the Ministry of Business or the ruling majority would rule. He spoke only of the termination of the contract and pointed to some problematic items in the current course of privatisation, in certain specific cases. As far as I could hear, the court has already reacted in some of these cases. As far as I could hear, the Privatisation Agency, or its new director, Mr. Branko Pavlovic, also reacted several times in public talking about these irregularities. Whether there was an irregularity or not, let the court determine. Also, let the court determine, if there were irregularities, who was responsible, or if there were no irregularities whether the person who initiated the process was responsible. As for the "Sabbe" action and everything else you have brought here, the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament has already set out to control certain procedures and procedures that occurred during the state of emergency in Serbia. We'll have an epilogue of that very soon. The Committee's work has been carried out for 30 days. I must remind you that no one from the DSS has ever said that Janjusevic was listening in the interests of the state and that everyone knew it; that no one from the DSS ever said that JSO was killing on behalf of the SPS, did not put it on the MUP's memorandum of Serbia and did not slam the seal under it -- the Ministry of Serbia -- and did not bring it out in public. That's what some other people did. The fact that Dejan Michael has repeated all this after a series of charges on our account may hurt someone, but the Security Committee will give its word and I hope that the investigative authorities and courts will give their word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3643	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Miroslav Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3644	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Serbia can be divided into two categories. The first category consists of cosmetic changes, which are mostly termological and which are removed from this law words such as SRJ, which Vojislav Kostunica has long buried, so there is no point in keeping the name of the non-existent state in the Code. Also, some other words have been deleted, and the word "state prosecutor" has been replaced with "public prosecutor" and so on. The SRS has not submitted amendments to these members of the Amendments and Supplements Act. Another category is fundamental changes that have greatly reduced the current human rights and freedoms of Serbian citizens. The SRS condemned this proposal by the Serbian government and believes the proposed changes were catastrophic and had to go in a completely different direction. Namely, the court's work should have made it faster, easier, better quality and more efficient, and not because of the ineffectiveness of the courts to make it difficult for the defendants and practically to extend the detention of the accused, who at the same time guarantee to the first member of the law that they will be considered innocent until their guilt is determined by a judicial decision. It's about ultimate cynicism. It would be much better for the defendants if the existing legal formulation on the presummation of innocence and the longest possible length of detention up to four years, than you have improved the formulation of presummation of innocence and extended to the indefinite duration of detention. What is most strange to me in this bill is that the adoption of the law is justified by the need to bring the text of the Laws into line with the European legal standards and international conventions that our country has ratified. As if the promoter is trying to tell us that our standards are too high, so if we want to go to Europe, we have to lower those standards and adapt them in this way to the European ones. As regards the amendments proposed, firstly, in Article 43 which speaks of the exemption, a provision has been inserted – if the request for exemption is contrary to the provisions of Article 42, or if it is clearly governed by a delay in proceedings, the request will be rejected in whole or in part. No appeal shall be allowed against the solution to which the request is rejected, and the solution to the meeting shall be greater. So, since the opening of the session, the judge whose exemption is required can also participate. This just shouldn't be like this. If you allowed a judge whose exemption is sought by a solution to reject an exemption, then at least you had to allow a legal remedy to exist, to at least some higher authority accused or one of his defenders may regret it. In this way, if there is any abuse by the judge, even if the obvious reasons for the existence of an exception, the judge can dismiss this without the right to appeal. Then, court sentences for the lack of an expert, or witness, were increased as much as 10 times, or the maximum penalty is now instead of 10. 1,000 dinars, as many as 100,000 dinars. Given that the minister has worked in the judiciary recently, I thought he would know that the main problem here is not at the level of punishment, but in the fact that these penalties have never been applied in practice. You, Mr. Minister, I'm sure you could easily access the data, but it's certain that in the past five years more than five times this sentence has not been applied, because even when a penalty is imposed for an unwarranted non-disclosure of a witness or an expert, at the next search when he comes, that sentence is necessarily lifted. So those fines were never charged. Perhaps it would be better if you first changed the law in that direction to prevent the abolition of these penalties, meaning that once a fine of 3,000, 4,000 or 5,000 dinars has been imposed, which is much more appropriate for the economic situation in our country, that punishment will be charged, because when that punishment is determined, then perhaps witnesses and witches will stick to and come to the searches. That is, therefore, the problem, not the height of punishment. As for the famous article 146 and the duration of the detention, the question arises whether it is a reasonable time for a verdict for seven years, and for God's sake not only seven, but also more. The deadlines have been drastically changed, they are now practically twice as long, and the position seven has been added, which says: "The deadlines laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article do not run in the period during which the main search is delayed or interrupted due to the absence of the accused", and that is where I will stop. How can the time limit for the detention of the accused not run if the defendant is absent? How can the defendant be in custody and absent? Are you preparing some more charges for the extradition to The Hague tribunal; we have so far had one situation when Slobodan Milosevic was extradited to The Hague, although he was detained by the District Court in Belgrade. You know very well that only the judge who has ordered custody can allow that defendant to be directed anywhere. So, explain to us how it's possible for the defendant to be both absent and in custody. Or maybe you were thinking about the situation (because we had the situation in practice) when you're taking the defendant out to dinner to convince him to testify against someone; then you won't at the same time while he's at dinner to count him in. If that's it, maybe we'll agree. Then, I will say one more thing, namely when a criminal prosecution is delayed, which may be proposed by a public prosecutor with the court's consent, in Article 236, it is only said, with the agreement of the court. In no way is it specified who in court will give that consent, meaning whether it will be KV bigger, whether it will be the President of the Court, whether it will be the President of the Council. So if this provision is not specified, this won't apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3645	The word is proposed by Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3646	The main objections my young colleague put on me and how much I appreciate it. This question about the defendant - I said yesterday it was a mistake and I see that there is an amendment and it will be accepted to remove it. But there's no reason for you to push me into any policy, not you or the predecessor, because at least so far, I've tried not to participate in any politics, but rather, to commit to what my job is. I'll show you, so I don't read and keep the gym, these are the remarks of the Council of Europe. It's exactly what's embedded in those remarks and accepted, so don't push me into that policy that we're going backwards. Then you would have to direct it to the Council of Europe and draw their attention to pushing Europe backwards. These are their direct remarks, the standards they asked for to be installed. I'm also the one who said, in the opening statement, about minors, because the law only needs to come in for minors, they're going to fit in. We have not properly put things into place, because the objective circumstances that exist in us do not give us the opportunity to include these observations without them being applied. We could have built these remarks in and said -- now the courts can't work, so I'm asking you not to involve me in politics at least in the future, and as far as law goes, I'm always ready to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3647	Replica? Replication on the replica? Wait a minute, you want a replica on the request of an authorized promoter not to involve him in politics? There you go, but nobody mentioned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3648	Mr. Markovicu, Minister Stojkovic reacted to my presentations and to the remarks I referred to in this law. So he totally misread my exposure. First of all, Mr. Minister, I have to inform you that you're already in politics, so you're the minister of justice and you're already, you didn't want to, you got involved in politics. We wanted to avoid your political interference, we even voted against the government of which you are a member, so it absolutely comes out of the context of our options. Furthermore, as for your remarks that the Council of Europe has requested that the term of the detention be extended, I absolutely cannot believe it. Human and civil rights and freedoms should not be touched by all international conventions. This is absolutely taking a step backwards. The detention could take up to four years, and according to this bill, seven or more years, because if, God forbid, someone's proxies break their legs so they don't get to the hearing, or to the main search, and the court delays for three months, the deadlines don't run during that time. Why don't we postpone the search for three days, so why don't we deal with the most difficult cases, that's the point. So, if we're going to talk about international conventions, don't, Mr. Minister, go out and say that they demanded stricter provisions, because they certainly didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3649	The People's Messenger Miroslav Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3650	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the basic points in the G17 Plus programme is a persistent commitment to the rule of law, for a country in which it will finally come to power. We do this, first of all, through the pursuit of strengthening institutions, especially the judiciary. There's nothing original about other political parties in this room. There is no political party in this parliament that is through its programme does not say the same. What distinguishes us and other political parties is the will and desire that when we find ourselves in a position, and we find ourselves, to change that, we do so. G17 plus thinks that this bill is in principle good, because it creates some of the aspirations that we, as I said, have included in our program. That is why we will vote in favour of this bill, we will vote in favour of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, above all that is inevitable. In his opening statement, Mr. Minister himself said that this is an inevitability because we ask that domestic legislation be brought into line with European legal standards, especially those contained in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. These amendments to the law represent our obligation, because most of these conventions and contracts have been ratified by our state. Therefore, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group believes that this bill is in principle acceptable, and that most of the views expressed here are good. I'll just point out a few. First of all, I would point out the improvement of the rights of accused persons deprived of the freedoms contained in Article 2. I remind you, there are investigative authorities who are required to declare to the person the reasons for the deprivement of liberty and everything that is put on his burden, as well as his rights. Of course, we also have certain objections to this law, and this was discussed by Mr. Humane and Mr. Christin, and above all they referred to the institution of detention. However, some of these remarks have already been put into the proposal itself and will be removed. Here, first of all, I mean that there's a distinction between easy and serious crimes, where there's been a penalty for over 40 years. For this reason, I believe, as I initially said, that this law is a further contribution to the establishment of the rule of law, and the G17 plus will vote in favour of this law, with the hope that the other amendments that contribute to its improvement will also be accepted. By voting for this law, we will put aside those who advocate the rule of law, and contrary to those who are here today in this room the loudest in defending human rights, and how much until yesterday they have advocated defending those rights, in fact, with a rusty spoon, I guess all real.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3651	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric, and let MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared. The SRS has 22 minutes left, they asked me to tell you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group believes today this law is a result and a fruit of blackmail. Of course we don't expect the Justice Minister to go out for a pay phone and deny it, it's simply a fact that's here. The SRS is a modernly arranged, well-organised and highly disciplined party and it wants state institutions, i.e. functions to be also organised and well-organised, so when someone says that we are not for the detection of the perpetrators of certain crimes (the assassination of the Ibar Masteral, the assassination of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia), it is simply not true. And if we had wondered, we would have already done this work a long time ago, or we would have had an impact on those bodies and institutions that were obliged to conduct this process and to bring it to an end in accordance with the law. Yesterday, some speakers pointed out that a crime was committed against certain families, that is, people, and that is absolutely correct, but no one has said that one crime was committed and no one is seeking to commit a defence -- a crime against Professor Vojislav Seselj, who has been in the UN tribunal for 15 months, without any human rights. So his freedoms and rights are completely limited, and none of the speakers found a corresponding one sentence to say that at least in the perspective should be advocated to do so, that is, solve the problem. This law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, as my esteemed fellow MP, Nemanja Sarovic, said, could be divided into two parts. One part of the change is because of certain institutions that no longer exist and we have no objections, it just needs to be done and done. As for the fundamental changes and changes, of course we have objections to everything that is about this law and envisaged. In Article 8, and in relation to Article 43. The Code of Criminal Procedure, it is unacceptable for a judge whose exemption is sought to decide for himself. Of course, the moment it's set in front of him to get rid of it. Then, when it comes to the length of detention, I think it's inadmissible and it's a crime against those who are found guilty, not guilty; so we're not saying that someone who commits a certain crime is adequately punished under the law, but only for those who have been held in custody can it last, you heard yesterday, and up to 7.5 years. We could understand in some ways if you were to cooperate with The Hague tribunal, and if persons in The Hague tribunal were returned to the proceedings before our courts, in that sense, and they are the only ones who know that so long the detention can take place without criminal proceedings. If that's what you're up to, there's something we could accept and say that might be okay. Then, the deadlines laid down in Articles 3 and 4 - say - do not run in a period during which the main search is delayed or suspended due to the absence of the defendant or his defender. With this extension and the suspension of custody, and I don't think it's right and it shouldn't stand. Also, in a recent explanation of MP Nemanje Sarovic, we heard in which cases it might come. In Article 27 of this law, with regard to Article 238(3), the words "five years old" are replaced by the words "up to 10 years old"; it is that internal affairs authorities can carry out certain insights. We think that this is wrong and that this would be the best and most qualitative conclusion of certainly the investigative judge, and for the reason that a well-advised procedure must lead to a more efficient and fairer solution, or to a better judgment for the defendant. In particular, these were the remarks I had on this law, by discussing the details of our objections in the form of amendments to individual members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3653	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared. Milan Stanimirovic is not here. I ask MP Momir Markovic to speak to us, and let MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot of things I wanted to say were already said by the MPs of the SRS, so I'm going to try to shorten my discussion a little bit. It is clear that every country strives to perfect its laws. The state of Serbia whose legislation has already been registered for 1,000 years and more, written legislation, has particularly reasons and needs to modernise its laws. It is also clear that the first part of this law relating to the application of the law in accordance with the situation created (Yugoslavia will no longer be, instead of the public prosecutor - the state prosecutor, etc.). The SRS supports it, because we have nothing against it. The second part, which concerns several members, clearly indicates that the bill stemmed from a painful hit and a fat payment to a coalition partner, from a single chicken-piercing contract and agreements between you from a renewed DOS. It is clear that the judiciary is unable to resolve cases that have been being dragged away for years and that the defendants should be arrested until you find a way or a judge who will judge, not by law, but by order. Serbian Radicals are not interested in any individual case, but these members I speak of in this law open up the possibility of terrible abuses and political manipulations. You cannot cover the unpreparedness of the judiciary and the political appetites of coalition partners with the legal projects that you will bring to parliament. The laws in the countries of Europe have been going on for decades, and we have been changing how political furniture changes in power. Human rights and freedoms in Europe are undeniable. With us in Article 146, I will discuss it a little later, opening up the possibility for more than seven years, 7.5 years, and taking into account attitude 3 can extend even up to 10 years of detention. In doing so, you must bear in mind that this man is not convicted, that only a criminal case has been brought against him, that he may be held in custody for 10 years and after that, unless he is found guilty, that the state should apologize to him. What about the presumption of innocence? What if you or some of the others are thinking of implementing some new Sabre? Then we've got 10, 12, 13,000 arrested and 50 of them convicted and 20 convicted. Let's not make laws like this that will ruin the life of even an innocent citizen of this country. The citizens of Serbia are full of laws at the will and interests of the ruling set. As the government takes over, it changes the laws. You remember that Justice Minister Vladan Batic has based his laws on himself and his political interests, on his understanding of justice, not on the citizens of Serbia. Do not accept blackmail, for they can cost a great deal, and they get fat when you come down from power and when some others come to power and the laws that you bring today begin to apply to some of you. I will try only four members to comment and leave time and time for the discussion of the SRS. Article 3 - everyone will be considered innocent until his guilt is determined by a judicial decision of the competent court. Just declarative, because when an article is applied, it means nothing. Innocent, and he stays in jail. In Article 5, point 3 - to uninterruptedly generalise with the defender. Today, and tomorrow, that uninterrupted statement with the defender seems to be by having the right of the defender once a week half an hour to come to the detention unit where he is detained and to speak to him and prepare his defenses. Point 7 - that requires that he be examined without delay by a doctor of his choice... In all prisons, the doctor visits the rooms once every 15 days asking if anyone is complaining about anything and that's all the medical care about the prisoners. Point 9 - that requires compensation for the loss of freedom. You know that at least ten thousand lawsuits will begin and many of them will reach Strasbourg, precisely because "Sabbe" was carried out as it was carried out. On Article 146, everyone was saying, I would just say that with this attitude of the 7th same member - deadlines set out in Articles 3 and 4 of this article do not run in a period during which the main search is delayed or suspended due to the absence of the accused or his defender, the dismissal of power and the election or the appointment of a new defender - right here remains the possibility to extend the detention period of over 7.5 years. Finally, Article 173. I'm sorry, I have to hurry because there are two or three other SRS debaters, so I have to leave them time too. Article 173 refers to punishment. What do you think if you punish that defendant with 100,000 dinars, who's gonna have to pay for it, assuming he's innocent. What do you think, if a witness gets in the car and breaks his leg, or his car breaks down, and he can't make it back at that time, who's gonna have to pay that $100,000? We are absolutely against the increase in fines, just as Mr. Sarovic, the MP of the SRS, said, should be applied, because they will pay 5,000 easier, and that will be for him and for those 100,000, you will have to sue him first, in order to get those 100,000 out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3655	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Angelkovic. He's not here. ) The last speaker registered for the word is Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go. You've got 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3656	Since everyone's criticizing the law, I'll start with praise. The first and epochally good thing about this bill is that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia has become the Supreme Court of Serbia. The other good thing is we don't have a D.A. anymore, we have a D.A. The third good thing is that there is no more law - the SRJ, but - the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The fourth legal and technical good thing, no more Yugoslav citizenship, so there is no Yugoslav citizen, but a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro. Of course, that's where the list of good things ends. This is no joke. I didn't go too far, Minister. This is about the end of a list of things that could change in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I have to tell you, since I remember and know when the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed, it was brought as a result of the work of several working groups, they worked on that regulation for two years. The problem with the law was that it was not adopted in 1999 and 2000 when it was done, primarily because of sanctions and because of opposition from police officers who did not kindly view the abolition of three-day police detention. Later that text was changed with about five or six members and that is essentially the text that was done back then. To understand all the objections made to this bill, which concerns detention and some issues that go with custody, I would only read to you what is in international documents, which could be said to be international standards, and all of this obliges the Republic of Serbia. Well, in this order, he says, the defendant is considered innocent and must be treated as such. The defendant is a generic name for the suspect, accused, accused, and even as he stands in the law - and convicted. Anyone charged with a crime has the right to be considered innocent until the law proves guilty of a public search, upon which all guarantees are provided for his defence. It's a general declaration of human rights. Every person charged with a crime is presumed innocent until his guilt is legally established. It is the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. Anyone accused of a crime will be presumed innocent until proven guilty by law. This is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Any person charged with a criminal act shall be deemed not to be guilty until his guilt has been proved by law and established on the basis of a judicial decision - a quote from the constitution of a state which passed the constitution several years ago and whose constitution applies to one of the better constitutions. Furthermore, no one should be automatically arrested, detained, or expelled. The detention of a person awaiting trial is not mandatory, but release may be subject to guarantees that ensure the arrival of a person on a search as well as any other actions, procedures and other cases, and especially for the execution of the verdict. Every person deprived of liberty is treated humanely and with respect for the dignity of an inseparable from a man's personality. Not to order further what is written in the international documents that bind us, to specify - the Convention against Torture and other cruel and inhumane or humiliating penalties or proceedings; the Code of Conduct of Persons responsible for the application of the law; the set of minimum rules on dealing with prisoners, etc. All this has been annulled by this bill. The promoter even went so far as to deny and undo what is in article 16 of the original text of the law. It is - that every person suspected of committing a crime has the right to be brought before the court as soon as possible, to conduct the proceedings without delay, and to reduce the length of detention to the shortest necessary time. I can't get into the wrong translations, what someone's interpreting as standing in those regulations -- reasonable time, if it means original -- without needless delay. But the right of every person who's been blamed, and especially those who are in custody, is that he has a quick and effective trial. In no international document - a swift and effective trial, it is not a matter of time. But I'm absolutely sure that a quick and efficient trial, and even in the variant of a bad translation -- reasonable time, can't mean seven and a half years, and maybe more. The fact that there is some desire to change the importance of presummating innocence or to guarantee the rights of persons deprived of freedom, whether it be arrest or detention, in this way only declareably, that's another problem. In this sense, some new concepts such as - apparently management of the delay procedure should be interpreted. If that's what a defense attorney does, he does it against his client. He's working against his client. Every unwarranted act of counsel is against his client if he's in custody. Well, it's not like someone likes to be in custody, that it takes as long as possible. Well, it's not like someone wants to take custody to practically define their prison sentence for seven and a half years. Because if there was no delay, the court would probably punish him for some harsher punishment. Don't turn the elemental logic thing around. There's no excuse for such long detention. There's no excuse, because it's contrary to the presummation of innocence. We can't change the Code of Criminal Procedure to solve the problems that exist in the court, in the judiciary. We can't solve the problem that our police are still bringing people in without evidence, and then there's some evidence in the investigation. Do not violate the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that it resembles the UN tribunal's statutes or the UN tribunal's rules of procedure and evidence. Well, doesn't this look like The Hague tribunal's regulations to you? The Hague tribunal is doing business, or as they say -- processing on the principle that the indictment is confirmed in front of an individual judge, issuing a warrant for arrest, placing a man in custody, giving him great rights only on paper, and then that prosecutor in the image of a lady begins with an investigation, gathering evidence etc. The difference between that and that, after these proposed amendments to the Code, is that there is an investigation being conducted by the prosecutor, and here will be led by an investigative judge. But from the point of view of the detainees, his position is almost identical. Here, we have an example of the Krajisnik, who now begins the trial after four years. We have an example of Vojislav Seselj who is even banned from any communication with children, family, relatives, friends. We'll probably have a chance to read these ridiculous and tragic decisions about the amendment. Even the court secretary, or deputy secretary of the court, imposes some sanctions without disciplinary proceedings. This is where I wanted to commend this change regarding the restrictions of visitation on detainees, if the disciplinary procedure found that he had exceeded something, and only the investigative judge, or greater, can say so depending on the stage of the proceedings. Let us differ from The Hague tribunal. Don't let us go to the Hague tribunal to look like him. The International Court of Justice throws trees and stones at The Hague tribunal. The International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes, established by the Rome Statute, does not want to see the UN tribunal. The freaks are all being fenced, the professional public, everyone who understands human rights and court proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3657	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the opening of the principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or... Please, it's okay, I saw Mr. Obradovic. The first word is Minister Stojkovic, as a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3658	Almost every speaker mentioned this issue of insight for crimes up to ten years. I just want to point out that we have essentially today, even though it's intended for minor crimes, the fact that the MUP is carrying out these insights. We in all courts have one on-call investigative judge. When a number of these cases appear, or we would be left without gathering that evidence, because it can't get there and it can't do that, especially to receive faces as the on-call investigative judge who brings him in to hear them out, and then most often it's practiced to say, okay, do it. Then it should be legalized and said - they have a right, not the next day when a problem arises that they transfer these jobs to each other. This is how it is known to have been done, and it has come from the principle that it is nevertheless one of the most significant material evidence to be obtained. The second thing is how it's going to be evaluated tomorrow at the trial, whether they're properly collected or not, but it's been more important that they get together than they don't get together at all. There are also questions about medical examinations and interpreters here, which means - right now. Well, normally, when you say -- right now, you don't mean that moment, but you're thinking about those relatively short, reasonable deadlines, until the doctor gets here, until the interpreter comes along, while he provides everything. It is not possible for it to last for days or as before - that it is not even invited. I don't think it's a bad thing that he's obliged to always give him a checkup, because it's in the files. You have a large number of cases where people complain, they're beaten up, etc., and then when they get out of custody, they go to the hospital to get some information about it. Like this, any judge who comes would already have that fact found on the record, so any later explanation of whether it was torture or not would fall off. I think this is one of the good elements to suppress that kind of torture that was quite common with us. These are the basic things that almost each of the debaters pointed to, so if it is later on in the discussion, individually some other objections, I will try to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3659	I am giving a break until 15.00 hours, and after the break of the word, the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic, appeared. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the search of the first item of the agenda - the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Please determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that by applying the electronic system, there is a quorum for work. The word has a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3661	Mr. President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, on behalf of the SPS, I would like to say a few words on these amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, or those reasons, legal, legal and essential, which have defined our parliamentary group to support these changes. I'm saying this for the reason it's showing up, based on the exposure we've heard here from the Secretary-General and because of the situation in our legal system, there's a need to make changes and supplement this code, because that's what our legal system needs. It is not only about compliance with the provisions of international law, with the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, or regulation of issues that remain open by applying the Constitutional Charter, but also about clarifying certain provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and their more detailed clarification, and in any case, it is something that the Republic of Serbia needs. At the same time, it is good for these reasons to be dominant, not some others, because in the past two or three days this law has given meaning that he does not have, because they dominated political and not legal reasons. The point is that the amendments to this law are governed by legal motives and that is how it should be observed. I mention a number of reasons that we consider to be good that they found a place in this law and that are subject to amendments and addition of the Code to criminal proceedings. First of all, under one, it is the alignment of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, given that in the meantime, as you know, the Constitutional Charter was passed. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitutional Charter, there is a need to bring the regulations of the Republic of Serbia into line with the rules of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and to specify the bodies designated to carry out certain tasks, since the formation of a new state union and the adoption of the Constitutional Charter have been abolished by a number of federal institutions. Two, also on the basis of the Constitutional Charter, which speaks of the primacy of ratified international conventions on domestic legislation, it is necessary to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to make these international European standards an integral part of our legislation, in order to become an integral part of our regulations. Under three, it is a good thing that the very clearly formulated presumption of innocence is and what has been done in accordance with Article 6. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 19 The Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. Under four, it is good that the rights of persons deprived of liberty are detailed. I'm not saying this for no reason, because in the past year, during the time of the famous operation "Sabbe" we've witnessed all kinds of behavior of the state authorities. Not only was the vast number of people deprived of freedom without any explanation of their rights, but it was in the way they were held in custody, that is, prison and all that was happening was a lot of ugly things. I will mention the example of our vice president of the SPS, Mr. Vucelic, who spent 15 days in prison, was released, and no one has found fit to explain to him any reason why it happened to him and why he was held in prison. There was no question about his rights. We had the situation, also at the time of Operation Sabela, that people were brought under one indictment, mentioning the case of Jovica Stanisic and Frank Simatovic, and then, in agreement with Carla del Ponte, would be handed over to The Hague tribunal. Unfortunately, there's been a lot of bad things going on in the last three years, and I even have to say dirty things in our legal system. It is therefore good to specify such provisions in order to avoid any possible negative situations in the future. It is clear to know what the rights of persons deprived of liberty are, in order to benefit from those rights. Simply, those rights are at his disposal. Five, it's a good thing there's been some detail about the length of the detention. I must say that, as far as this Law is concerned, we have conducted certain consultations with Mr. Minister, and we felt that there is a need for these provisions of the law to be further clarified, so in that sense we have proposed one amendment, which reads: "From the arrest of the defendant, it may take the longest two or four years, respectively, for acts for which a 40-year sentence has been threatened. If no first degree verdict is given in that time, the detention will be lifted and the accused released." They realized that the Justice Department would accept this amendment. I believe that this is very good, for the very reason that the provisions of this article, relating to detention, are very clear, and it prevents any manipulation or politicisation of this very important issue. It is also good that it is decided to prevent the procedural possibility of delaying proceedings, because that was the case. Under seven, it is good that these amendments and additions of the Criminal Code regulate defence costs issues in a pre-crisis procedure, which determines the obligation for the MUP to bear and pay those costs. Under eight, it is good to provide for the possibility of delaying criminal prosecution for criminal offences for which fines or prison sentences are provided for up to three years, provided that the suspect accepts one or more of the measures that these amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are prescribed. There are other things to talk about, but I think there is also a need to mention here the precision of the obligations that we have undertaken as a country based on ratified international conventions. First of all, I mean working with the Permanent Criminal Court in Rome, with the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and, logically, with the International Court of Justice in The Hague, given that this co-operation exists earlier. Our country, as you know, filed a suit for NATO bombing in 1999. I have counted nine quality reasons why it is good for the Assembly to discuss this proposal on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure and for which our parliamentary group of these amendments will support it. Let me say a few more words now. Since the past few days, even at the beginning of the debate on this agenda, there have been attempts to politicise this law, linking this law to the tragic event of the Ibaric Masteral, who knows which way I will have to, because someone does not want to hear it in this Serbia, to say that we MPs care to determine who organised and who committed the murder at the Ibaric Masteral; who killed Ivan Stambolic, who organised it, who ordered it; Slavka Curuvija, but also Paul Bulatovic, Zoran Todorovic, Radovan Stojčić-Badž, deputy minister. Also, to determine all circumstances for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, General Bosko Buha, journalist Milovan Pantic, Momir Gavrilovic and others. I'm not saying this by chance, because when it comes to murders in a previous period, then the qualification of "criminal regime" is used, and when it comes to murders since 2000, so to speak, these are isolated cases and insists on individual responsibility. The bottom line of our position is that we need to determine the truth, whoever it is, because only in that case can we as a state take a step forward. The politicization of the Ibar highway is unnecessary. We will see what determines the investigation; organizers and perpetrators will be established, but also motives, whether motives are political. Whether it was a matter of government relations or a problem of resolving relations within the opposition or of some other reasons being dominant. I mention this for the reason that this is being talked about, and it is not said that it is necessary to pass this law to prevent a number of criminals, murderers, drug dealers and other people who have committed serious crimes to avoid a court of justice, to be released for procedural reasons, and then by the already seen scenario to be inaccessible to the authorities. I also have a moral obligation to say a few words about this (because it is about this) and about Radet Markovic. Let the state authorities do their job and determine the truth and all things related to this man. I'm saying this, not for no reason, because it's well known to Serbia not only that he was in prison on charges, but during his stay in prison, torture was applied to him, he was not allowed to sleep, it was going to all the methods to be mentally broken, and by taking out of prison without the decision of the authorities he was trying to sign a pre-deposited indictment, it was looked at in every way to break a man. Let the state do its job, determine all circumstances, but no man and this tragic murder cannot and must not be used for the sake of petty political interests. I am saying this because we have heard clearly from the minister that this law is not related to any particular case and is wrong to anyone who observes it, and is abused by anyone who interprets it so. There are enough reasons why this law should be passed. I counted at least nine, and I think it will be good for Serbia's justice system, let alone for justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3662	Thank you. Any of the other presidents or authorised representatives come forward? Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3663	I would point out a few big reasons that prevent us from adopting these amendments and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'd like to return to the first member of the bill that gives some definition of presummation of innocence in criminal proceedings. Just to remind ourselves of some of the things that are the fact that there is a European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Among other things, this Convention provides for one right of defendant, which is that it has the right to provide for a practical and public debate, as it says in the translation, within a reasonable time before an independent and impartial court. So it's a public debate. When it comes to criminal proceedings, it's a public search, it's a minimum of the rights guaranteed by a person suspected or suspected of committing a crime. Probably all the provisions of the bill come from this first member of the bill. In our definition, we insist on the formulation where the search is guaranteed, and in the bill we have essentially modified the variant of the existing text: "Everyone will be considered innocent until his guilt is determined by the judicial decision of the competent court. "The definition is insufficient. Insufficiently suggest a presummation of innocence, does not give full content of presummation. As a result, we have something under the law, and it cannot be put on the burden of the legislator, but above all whoever changed the original text of the 2001 Code when it was passed, introduced an inaccurate provision and from this inaccuracy practically introduced the mandate procedure into criminal proceedings. This is a chapter – procedures for criminal sanctions without a major search. You see, as the basis for the amendment of the Code, it is this European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, and the Code contains provisions that are contrary to that Convention. The convention indicates that the defendant has the right - so he has the right in fact, not only to write, but to use it - to guarantee his main search, the public. We have a whole chapter, starting with Article 449 - Penalty Procedure before the main search. So it would be some kind of mandate procedure, or this other point that begins with Article 455 — a procedure for punishing and giving parole by an investigative judge. If this is done by an investigative judge, then he works at the stage of the investigation, and at the stage of the investigation, evidence is provided and assesses whether there are elements to press charges against the defendant. I'm surprised you haven't covered these changes since you're calling for the same convention I just quoted. I would direct your attention to Article 1 and the need to define itself, but to give full content of presummation of innocence, because if you give full content of the definition, i.e. presummation of innocence, then we solved the problems related both to the duration of detention and to something that is now being entered, which is a standstill in detention. Please, you, by modifying article 146, introduce a category that counting detentions can rest. How can a man be held in custody when he's in custody? Why is there a fiction being made, but the man is in custody, he is deprived of his freedom. He's limited to freedom of movement. Now that there's a mathematical conclusion, there's no accounting for detention. Why doesn't detention count when he's in chains? This is about fundamental shortcomings of the bill, only because it does not give full content of the presummation of innocence and what is guaranteed to all international human rights documents. In this story represented by the SRS, there is no protection of anyone, for any reason, no individual case, no specific case. When we talk about the law, we draw some conclusions from specific cases only in which direction we need to change the regulation. But that regulation must be a regulation that guarantees the respect of human rights and dignity of every man so that it doesn't happen, and we have such a practice, that a man is baselessly held in custody, so that, later on, when the detention deadlines expire, he simply comes to the verdict, he gets found guilty, he gets fines, which covers the time spent in custody, and everyone knows that this man is innocent, and the judge, and the prosecutor, and the defender and the public, as it is mathematically concluded in one day, that the state allegedly avoids the obligation of compensation. Then the question arises, if that's the case, the man is innocent, then what do you guarantee that he has the right to compensation for the damage, when court decisions cover it. That's our problem. So, again, I have to return the discussion to that main topic; problems in the court, personal, personnel, ability, incompetence, malpractice, bribery, corruption and other negative things and phenomena that damage the conduct of criminal proceedings cannot be solved by amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. We can't, because if we want to change that, then we're inevitably coming into conflict with human rights. Don't, on any occasion, draw the rule, because in 99% of the cases as guilty are ordinary people who have no touch points, no politics, no business, no other things where there may be a need for attention. There will be a problem with ordinary people. It is likely that in the next cycle of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, we will have to pay more attention to the shortcomings during the criminal proceedings, the pre-criminal, the investigation, and the evidence procedure. It's just that these failures can't be put on the blame. We point to seriousness and we don't see any reason to make such hasty amendments and additions to a very important code that regulates criminal proceedings, which is most directly affecting human rights, to that fundamental right, which is one man's freedom. When you deny a man freedom of movement, anything is possible. I remind you that there are other conventions against torture, abuse of power, etc. In the definition of torture there is also unfounded detention, unwarranted detention. Don't change the law to amnesty something that's abuse. In this way we allow someone to abuse the rights and obligations they have under the Code of Criminal Procedure, whether the judge, whether the defender, is not important, anyone who abuses is not allowed to enjoy protection. At the very least, it affects the defendant, especially the one in custody. One day detention an innocent person is a danger to the entire state. What the old saying says is, better than a thousand criminals on the loose than an innocent man in prison. Finally forget one who's been listening for the past three years: to go to prison, to prove his innocence. Under that slogan we were formed public opinion, so the highest state officials very often said, "Let him go, so let him prove he's innocent." What a twist, which is a demeaning of human rights, or definition of what human rights is! Is it worth a man's life if anyone can do what they want with him? That's what we need to take care of. Therefore, we point to the seriousness of the correct definition of presummation and that it should not go with time-long detentions, because only the duration of detention indicates that it grows in some way in support of punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3664	Whether any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word or someone who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the MPs for a little patience as we consider the bill in particular. The report that came to me from the current board will be divided in the next 15 minutes, so you will have it in front of you, and of course I am informing the point by point. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard from colleagues Krasic, and also in the debate in principle, this member, and presummation of innocence, is one of the basic and most important members of this law. It results in further individual provisions and further individual solutions. So I'd like you to pay attention to what I'm about to say about this amendment. In fact, the bill states that everyone will be considered innocent until his guilt is determined by a judicial decision of the competent court. The amendment that the SRS has filed, which I stand behind, reads like this: "Anyone who is guilty of a crime has the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty by the law in a public search on which all guarantees are provided for his defence." So, until under the law, there's proven guilty of a public search. I just want to point out a few very important things. The formulation of the proposal - everyone will be considered innocent, is very broadly set. I'd narrow it down and I'd say anyone who's guilty, because this is where you think of a face that's blamed in the broadest sense of the word. So under this, we can also include a suspect who is in the first stage and who is first taken the appropriate action. So the term "leaded" was used as the widest legal terminology for all those involved in a certain pre-criminal or criminal procedure. Another thing I would point out: this presumption is, according to the formulation, the general right, but I stress that this and the individual right of the defendant should be taken into account. That's why I put the words "everyone who's accused has a right", so his personal right to be considered innocent is his. On the other hand, I must point out that this is one general right to be governed by Article 3. The Code of Criminal Procedure requires all entities who have access to the criminal proceedings. So, all the competent state authorities, all the public institutions, all the media and each individual has been instructed to take care of what happens before the court and not to put anyone's fault in the face. Therefore, it is the content of this amendment. If we're still considering the facts that have been said here, I have to stress the fact that this presummation of innocence or presumption of innocence is an off-processing character, but it has certain facts related to the very criminal act itself. For these reasons, it should be kept in mind that all entities that I have just counted, which are referred to in Article 3, are bound and respected by this presumption of innocence. On the other hand, an individual as a citizen must take care of his words and how he treats the person against whom a certain procedure has been initiated. Otherwise, the very important thing in all of this is the fact that conjecture or presumption begins with its fact the moment when the competent authority takes the first step towards a possible criminal offence. At this stage of the procedure there are so-called the basis of suspicion or the basis of suspicion. It's the smallest degree, the smallest level that can exist in doubt. Graduation, by concreteising this in a pre-criminal and criminal procedure, we come to a reasonable doubt, at that stage the indictment is brought up and it figures all the way to a strong verdict. For these reasons, this fact is very important to enter into the presummation of innocence. So this amendment puts an accent on blame, not a decision. Our decision isn't so important, it's a matter of guilt that's proven by law. This has been taken over from the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, or the European Convention, but from one general act, which is the General Declaration of the United Nations on Human Rights. So the legal fact of presummating innocence or the assumption of innocence is that it is considered a single means of removing aprior guilt. Protection against premature and arbitrary convictions... (President: Time, Mr. Stevovic. I thank you, I finish... must be considered. So every person found in this position must have the proper treatment. Therefore, I ask that you vote in favour of this amendment, because it is in accordance with European law, but also with our procedural right. I have one more thing to say, I apologize, no matter how hard we try to set this definition ideally, there is no ideal definition. Neither did we provide protection to a person who accepts responsibility even though he did not commit a crime, and such a person goes to court and suffers a certain verdict. This definition, as proposed by the proposal, and this amendment, does not cover such a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3666	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3667	If the legislator is invited to the European Convention, then it would be correct to at least prescribe the definition of presummation of innocence from that Convention. We now have a situation where the motionary calls for an act, but does not quote an act, but draws his definition in combination with one constitutional norm. To avoid confusion, I will read what is written in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms -- anyone charged with a crime will be presumed innocent until, under the law, proven guilty. There's no lawfulness of a court ruling. This is where you deliberately impose the justice of a court verdict, needlessly. If you have already quoted, or if you are referring to this convention, you should at least put that definition in place. If you didn't like that definition, you could have done something that was still above. This is the text of the General Declaration on the Rights of Man: "Anyone who is accused of a crime has the right to be considered innocent" – still what it says in the amendment. We don't have a government report or the government's opinion on these amendments, but I'd be amazed to accept this silence if you were against what's written in international documents. Why does it matter? It is important to make it clear that our Code of Criminal Procedure in quality differs, for example, from the statutes of the UN tribunal. In the UN tribunal's statutes, the presummation of innocence, for example, says this -- the defendant is considered innocent until proven guilty in accordance with the provisions of the statutes. But our need to be better and better at protecting human rights is also in Article 16 of the existing Law. It is well written - the defendant has the right to be brought before the court as soon as possible and to be tried without delay. I specifically quote this as a principle, because it draws a provision on the duration of detention. Furthermore, the court is obliged to carry out proceedings without delay and to prevent any abuse of rights belonging to persons participating in the proceedings. The parties to the proceedings are the prosecutor, the defendant, the defendant. The third position of this member says that the length of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. And Article 133 is to be added to all of this. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that one of the measures to ensure the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings, in addition to the invitation, etc., is detention. It is therefore important to accept this definition of presummation of innocence given by the amendment, as it follows the entire Corps of Rights and Obligations under the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is why we are persistent and insist that this amendment be accepted, because I cannot understand that someone does not want to accept the definition of the General Declaration of Human Rights. It's not possible that because of what we've suggested, we honestly say, we've copied something that's in the international document, that you won't accept it either. It's just incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3668	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you can see, Serbian radicals are very seriously preparing for these discussions and we are very well aware of international conventions. The amendment tabled by the MP from the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Milan Stevovic, is very important and can be seen at the party's democratic capacity. Anything you suggest, we offer citizens more. We offer what they are guaranteed under international law. I will now read to you how this is seen by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. They say that each during the decision on his civil rights and obligations or on a criminal charge against him has the right to a fair and public debate within a reasonable time before an independent and impartial court educated under the law. The verdict is made public. It is therefore important to accept this definition of ours and to put into the definition of presumption of innocence a public debate on the search on which all the guarantees necessary for defence are provided. The international pact on civil and political rights says so - all are equal before courts and courts of justice. Each person shall have the right to have his case heard properly and publicly before a competent independent and impartial court established under the law, which shall decide on the basis of any charge brought against him in criminal matters or in contesting his civil rights and obligations. It may be ordered to exclude the public during the entire debate or one part of the debate, but only in the interest of morality, public order or national security from a democratic society, or if the interest of the parties' personal life requires or even if the court considers it absolutely necessary for the reasons of special circumstances and cases where the public would be protected by the interests of justice. However, any verdict made in criminal or civil matters will be public unless the interest of minors requires otherwise or if the debate concerns marital disputes or custody of children. Any person charged with a crime is presumed innocent until his guilt is legally established. That is why we call on you once again to accept Mr. Stevovic's amendment and improve this law for the sake of the well-being of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3670	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamula, but he withdrew the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3671	In Article 5. The Code of Criminal Procedure in paragraph 1 states - the person deprived of liberty must be immediately informed, in his own language or language which he understands, of the reasons for the deprivement of freedom and at the same time aware that he is not obliged to declare anything, that he has the right to take the defender whom he chooses and demand that his closest be informed of his freedom. In your proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code in Article 2 you have only elaborated this existing position of Article 1(5). The criminal code, and you added some new suggestions. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group foresees that Article 2 of Article 1. says "all things that are burdened on him" in replacing with the words "all charges against him". The first attitude says - the person deprived of freedom must be immediately informed, in his language or language which he understands, of the reasons for the deprivement of freedom and of everything he is burdened with, as well as his rights. "All that is put on him" is an inappropriate structure for this member of the law, because it really raises the question of what is being put on someone's burden. He can be put on a load of high blood pressure, extra pounds, loud talk, it's really too broad a term, and it doesn't have much to do with what's the subject of this law. For this reason, the amendment suggested that instead of these words, "on all charges against him". Well, then that's what specifically applies to a person deprived of liberty, according to the provisions of this criminal code. What you have worked out as an attitude in nine points, also in point 5) of the amendment proposes to delete the first two words - "to require", and it refers to that the village of time, place and every change of the place of deprivement of freedom without delay of notification of the person of his choice, diplomatic and consular representative etc. We don't think there's any need for him to stand here. It's just that it has to be done. Point 9 also states that the person deprived of freedom requires compensation for the unfounded deprivement of freedom. Now, this is really pointless, this is how it's formulated. The amendment intervened to delete the words - to require, and to say - that persons have the right to compensation for the loss of freedom. It may be the same, but it's really not formally standing and it's not right. Imagine how pointless it is when a person deprives himself of freedom and lists all his rights, and then it's said to him, you know, maybe we're wrong, maybe you're unfounded of freedom, so just so you know, one day you'll be able to claim damages. There's no need to formulate it like this. Everyone knows, and these days we also have current examples of practice, how persons who have been unfounded of freedom in the action of Sabbe have acted, so some judgments have already been made to pay those persons a certain amount of damage. As the papers say, I assume the minister knows, there's still about 6,000 items in progress, and they'll probably all be compensated for the damage. They could have done that even if it wasn't for the law. There is no reason, Mr. Minister, not to accept this amendment, since the amendment does not touch on the essence of the amendments to the law that you have proposed, but merely specify the rights of the persons of the deprived of liberty.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3672	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3673	The very essence of deprivement of freedom stems from the need for an amendment to intervene on this article. I agree, at first glance, our amendment seems to be of legal and technical and editorial nature. But he's really getting into it. We will agree that every person deprived of liberty, regardless of whether it's detention, usually arrest or later turn into detention, enjoys some rights at the moment of freedom, because the presummation of innocence continues. It is likely that at that moment, the most important thing in a language that understands is the detailed and timely notification of the nature and reasons of the charges against him. He must know when he first meets the representatives of that organ that deprives him of his freedom, what you say puts him on the line. Of course, he's not burdened with high blood pressure or unpaid taxes. If he is deprived of his freedom, then he must know what nature is and what are the reasons for these accusations that exist against him. Maybe they're not a formal charge yet. He probably has suspect status back then, but if a person is suspicious, then he needs to know why it's suspicious. It is then not treated - what is put on his burden, because he will only be burdened by bringing charges, or by applying for an investigation. It's a milder degree of doubt in his innocence. That's why we think this is much more accurate and more guaranteed by the rights of a person who is deprived of liberty. I must remind you again that this is in line with all international documents concerning the protection of human rights. I am simply surprised that you do not accept these amendments that only specify and potentiate the protection of human rights. I'm just surprised you don't accept it, because anyone who's a suspect has to know the true nature of that suspicion. Now, when we look at those later provisions, the members in which you use the term "observability", then we get an answer to the question why you don't accept these amendments. Obviously, the degree of some certainty seems like magic if it is obvious by means of public information. If the means of public information determine the essence of the future criminal procedure, then there is neither the presummation of innocence nor the possibility of a person deprived of liberty effectively and in fact benefiting from the rights prescribed by law. So, in this we practically find the answer to this question, and that is why we have submitted the amendment, so that we may potential and, of course, follow that initial idea that we have put forward in the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3674	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand if already the applicants of this bill are persistently calling for European achievements why these achievements are then not used. You didn't need to make up a hole in a pothole here, to think of something that no one was before you. It was enough to read these conventions that you claim to have read, to rewrite some parts, and that what we're discussing today will be regulated much better than in this proposal. Article 5(1), which is amended, defines the minimum rights that every person devoid of freedom deserves and guaranteed, but unfortunately is not regulated as it was done in international conventions. The international pact on civil and political rights says -- every person accused of a crime has, with full equality, the right to at least the following guarantees (means, this is a minimum of rights guaranteed by the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, and we have ratified this: firstly, to be informed within the shortest time, in a language he understands, and in particular, of the nature and reasons of the indictment against him. So that's a much better definition than the one that's given the bill, which can be interpreted one way or the other. Then - that he may have the time and relief needed in connection with the preparation of his defences and that he may generalize with the defender whom he chooses, that he may be given a trial without great delay (we will come to this when we discuss Article 146); that he may attend the debate, that he may only defend himself or have a defender whom he has chosen, and if he has no defender to be informed of his right to have him and every time the interests of justice require that his defender be granted free of charge, if he has no opportunity to reward him. The following two points that do not exist in our law, which is to hear or suggest that others listen to witnesses who charge the accused and act as witnesses to the defense under the same conditions as witnesses. You can say that this is regulated in later members of the law, but it is very important that even here where basic and minimum rights are guaranteed it is also regulated. What may be most important, which had to stand as one point in this article, says – not to be forced to testify against himself or to admit guilt. There's no such thing in the bill, and for what reason, I don't really know. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms says – anyone accused of a crime has the following minimum rights (meaning, stressing minimal rights): that in the shortest possible time and in a language that understands to be informed of the nature and reasons for the charge against him (means, nowhere is said about what is put on his burden); that there is enough time and opportunity to prepare defence, to defend himself personally or through the defender whom he chooses or if there is not enough funds to pay for legal assistance to get this assistance free of charge when the interests of justice require it. This also does not exist in the bill – to question witnesses against themselves or to achieve that they are being questioned and to ensure the presence and hearing of witnesses in his favour under the same conditions that apply to those who testify against him. The last item – to receive free assistance from the translator if he does not understand or speak the language used in the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3676	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3677	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of the latter position represented by the Democratic Party, which is that all parties in the proceedings have the maximum legal right and equal status before the law, I have suggested that this article be subject to the obligation of the investigating judge, that all evidence collected and filed with criminal charges and requests for the conduct of the investigation, but also evidence that is in favour of the defendant. It's so-called. the obligation to disclose the evidence of the state authorities which they have come to during the pre-taste procedure, which may be used by the defendant. In view of the fact that the state authorities have a large device that is put into effect after the criminal proceedings and which, by order of a public prosecutor (or so far, the attorney general) carry out the process of collecting evidence, they are in a better position to obtain evidence than the defendants themselves, who often does not know that evidence is being collected against him and that a procedure has been initiated with the aim of him being prosecuted before a competent court. Therefore, due to the equality of the parties in the procedure, in particular the position of the accused who imposes a number of obligations on this law on criminal proceedings and the proposal to amend it, where the possibility of determining detentions with a lengthy duration is left, it is necessary for the prosecution to also act securely and that all the evidence provided for in favour of the defendant presents the court in good time and that these evidence be presented to the accused at the time of the first examination.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3678	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3679	Before explaining this amendment, which the Government obviously does not accept, I will read Article 2 of Article 43, which is the subject of Article 8 of the amendment and the addition of the law: "If the request for exemption is submitted contrary to the provisions of Articles 42, Article 3, 5 and 6 of this Code, or if it is clearly governed by a delay in proceedings, the request will be rejected in whole or in part. No appeal shall be allowed against the solution to which the request is rejected. A decision rejecting the request has been passed by the President of the Court since the opening of the session - greater. A judge whose exemption is sought may take part in the adoption of that solution from the opening of the session. "What's the weight of all this? Where a request is rejected in any of the procedures, the rejection shall include one non-disclosure procedure in the request. The explanation given by the ministry for Article 8(2) specifically to defend this part -- "or if it is obviously managed to delay the proceedings", is supported by the likely state of criminal proceedings in the Special Department for Organized Crime of the District Court in Belgrade. There is no problem with the provision of Article 43. The Code of Criminal Procedure, rather than, unfortunately, the Belgrade District Court itself, that department and the whole situation created in the media, in the public of Serbia over all these criminal proceedings. It's not a trial anymore, it's a circus to entertain the people from day to day, week to week, from month to month, and it seems that's how they get it, year to year. In the case of reasons for amending this Article 8, the International Pact is also called for by the Charter of Human Rights, the European Convention. What's the point? Why, if the request is rejected, and it should not be rejected at all, but it should be the one who receives the request, whether the President of the Court or the greater, to consider the request and the request to reject it if there is no basis. Another thing, which is even more tragic - without the right to appeal. What is required in some court procedure, especially when it comes to criminal proceedings, are dismissed without the right to appeal? I personally believe, and in this sense I have submitted an amendment to delete this position 2, that there will be no more effective trial by introducing such an attitude, and especially by the fact that there is a criminal provision in Article 218 for the proceedings of an apparent delay of 100,000 dinars. So, on two grounds, one who submits an exemption is eventually punished, and is considered to be delaying the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3680	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3681	The accused, as a party to the proceedings, has the right to be tried by a court established by law, which is independent and impartial. Whenever he suspects impartiality and objectivity, he has the right to seek the exception of the judge. It's a rule in all procedures, whether they're criminal or litigious. The existing text of Article 43 fully satisfys the situation when an exemption is applied for, both the judge, the judge and the judge of the senior court, and the main search phase. It is absolutely unnecessary to intervene with this bill and to insert something that is essentially legally pointless. See what this attitude 5 looks like when this text is inserted. It turns out this way: "If the request for exemption is filed against the provisions of Article 42, paragraph 3, 5, and 6... "Station 3 states that a request for exemption from the president can be submitted within five days of receiving the call for the main search; item 5 says that parties and defenders can only seek an exemption by name of a designated judge; paragraph 6: "The party and the defender are obliged to state in the request circumstances which make it considered that there are some legal grounds for exemption," and the second sentence states that no reason should be repeated. It's all covered. Now the problem is that someone has concluded that there are also requests from which they claim to be clearly focused on delaying the procedure. I must say, a member of 43 refers to the defendant who defends himself from freedom and to the defendant who is in custody. If he's in custody, he's already being punished for being deprived of his ability to move freely, he's been deprived of his freedom. Any unfounded, unwarranted application for an exemption directly affects him and affects him the most. If it's the defendant who's defending himself from freedom, he's hit again because he lives with the fact that he's suspected, accused or accused, probably accused, and probably not comfortable with the procedure being held back, so there's no interest in submitting unfounded and obvious demands, as you said, to delay the proceedings. If someone thinks that way they're going to get into a situation that's going to obsess over the possibility of prosecution, they're wrong. So many instruments exist in a court of law that the criminal proceedings that have been committed must in some way end, whether a condemning verdict, whether liberating. I don't argue there's a situation when a criminal prosecution is out of date. I couldn't agree more. We have an item on the board that requires a judge's discharge because he has decided that absolute obsolescence has taken place, and in fact it's relatively obsolescence. I have to tell you that the man is absolutely not guilty, because he is also involved in some acts from Kosovo and Metohija. If the Assembly could amnesty, he could probably have made that mistake, given that he's doing the lawsuit originally, not the guilt. But if we don't get into it, it's the judge's and the president's relationship. Basically, that's the problem with the case. So there are no interests. The other thing that bothers me, it's that you took as a moment -- since the opening of the session, when it comes to the bigger one. You'll probably agree that the term "session" in the entire Code of Criminal Procedure is likely to appear three places. One of these is that the bigger and the bigger one votes in a secret session. Why did you tie yourself to one moment that absolutely nothing depended on? If you'd tied yourself to the start of some phase of procedure, I'd understand that. But if you used the term "session", I think it's the wrong term, as the wrong term was given in one of the amendments, which doesn't specify anything. What I'm against -- don't in this way deny someone the right to seek exception, because each of the lawyers in this room will point out to you at least five of the cases he had in practice, where he asked for an exemption from the judge, where it was rejected, rejected as unfounded, and that later on, after reviewing or by some solution, it was abolished, and it was seen that the main reason for the lack of judgment was precisely what the judge couldn't be objective and impartial. Don't throw it out like this. The court can protect itself against unfounded and unfounded demands that may aim to delay, but delay always affects the accused.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3682	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3683	Since my colleagues have failed to convince the minister to accept the amendment on behalf of the government to Article 8 of this law, although they have really very comprehensively explained the reasons why counterpart Miljko Cetrovic has submitted an amendment to Article 8 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure, I will try to be more convincing. It is really pointless that what you have changed in Article 43(5), where it states: "If the request for exemption is filed against the provisions of Articles 42, Article 3, 5 and 6 of this Code, or if it is clearly managed to delay the procedure, the request will be rejected in whole or in part. No appeal shall be allowed against the solution to which the request is rejected. A solution that rejects the motion is made by the President of the Court, and since the opening of the session - greater." The previous text said "and in the main search" and I don't see why this has changed; although the sequel is even more pointless: "In the adoption of this solution in the main search", that is, "from the opening of the session can be attended by a judge whose exemption is required". This provision opens up great opportunities for the abuse and instrumentalisation of courts for political purposes. We know well, we Serbian radicals have felt on our own skin what the instrumentisation of courts for political purposes looks like. For this very reason, because of the people's "whom the snakes have eaten and the lizard is afraid", we suggest that, if the minister does not, fellow MPs pay attention to what we say and accept this amendment, because it really makes sense. God did not allow you to experience on your own skin what the SRS, starting with the president of the party and beyond, had experienced from judges and judges, of course of course individual, I do not mean all judges. In particular, counterpart Krasic mentioned that there have been a number of cases in practice and that fellow lawyers in this room and outside the room can say how many times they have proposed an exemption from a judge, so these requests were rejected, and later it turns out that the main reason for the exemption was the impartiality of the judges. We in the SRS had concrete examples. We asked for an exception, say, to the judges of Danko Lausevic in the Fifth Municipal Court. We even asked, or initiated, the judge's discharge. That was two years ago. Neither those before you, nor you now, are any of them answering, and the verdict by Mr. Danko Lausevic has, of course, been annulled. It was a purely political verdict. We asked for the exception of Judge Ljiljana Mihajlovic, Judges of the Fourth Municipal Court. The then President of the Fourth Municipal Court, Djorđe Mirkovic, rejected our request, of course, did not respect the argument we gave very well in this application and we said that Judge Ljiljana Mihajlovic, unfortunately, was a politically instrumentalized judge. We knew and we said that the first-degree verdict was written in the cabinet of the then Minister Batic with him together, but of course it did not all reach the consciousness and conscience of Mr Mirkovic and therefore he is not the President of the Fourth Municipal Court today. That is why appropriate proceedings are being conducted against him, but Ms Ljiljana Mihajlovic has acted in the case, so she has reached one verdict, so she has reached another verdict, and now, according to the Serbian Supreme Court's review, all this has been returned to the beginning. The request for review was accepted, what I was saying now was about the case, but the procedure was the same and it was about the verdict concerning the eviction of the SRS from the Master's Building, which turned out to be completely unfounded. If Judge Djordje Mirkovic had accepted our proposal to exclude Judge Ljiljana Mihajlovic, such things would not have happened. So it would be good for this amendment to be accepted, not to go through the bad experiences that we've been through, not to allow judges and presidents of the courts to abuse regulations, not to allow our colleagues, possibly, the officials of the ruling party, to talk about you now, about some who were before you or will come after you, and those who will come after you will of course not abuse either courts or functions. So please, Mr. Minister, think if not you, then fellow MPs, accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3684	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing TV Serbia is transferring this session. I hope that a large number of judges, prosecutors and lawyers will have the opportunity to hear today about some new proposed amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, leaving this wide range of opportunities for numerous abuses is very dangerous. It was not necessary to touch side by side and enter into the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure under this provision would be far better and would arrange a way of exempting judges and public prosecutors in cases where they act and where they have grounds and reasons. Disabling the parties, therefore, and the accused, including the prosecutor, to seek the exception of an individual judge in a council that is absolutely illogical and unacceptable. I see that it is proposed that the exemption may be requested from the moment of opening the main search. Ladies and gentlemen, what will happen if someone gets promoted, or the defendant or the public prosecutor, finds that the acting judge has made an insight or that he has conducted an investigation, and that no one has previously made a complaint, and that the indictment is based on the wrongly established facts and that the larger one is making a decision in the wrongly established factual state, which was found during the investigation. That's why we shouldn't have intervened here, because the existing solution is far better and you know that we're a country in transition, you know that courts are being subjected to severe pressure from various entities, whether legal, any natural persons, relatives, friends, godfathers, so if it is subsequently discovered, if it is proved during the main search, a complaint for the dispensation of the judge or an exemption of the entire court, or greater, in that case, has no right to appeal to that solution. On the other hand, if an individual's exemption is sought, the individual can now participate in the decision-making process. It is good that this listens to the legal public, I am glad, Mr Stojkovic is a longtime judge and was a lawyer until recently, until he became a minister, and it could not be said that he does not perceive and notice this indifference. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment should be accepted, because this in the legal public will cause harsh condemnation. I don't understand who took part in the proposal for this norm, which in practice cannot liven up to the whole law, or the bill. I think there is enough reason for this amendment to be accepted and that it should be given the right to the parties in the process to seek exemption throughout the procedure. Of course, where the application is shown to be unfounded, the larger will reject it as unfounded, but exclude the possibility of making an appeal or disfellowshipping the judge for whom the exemption is sought, it is absolutely not possible to live in practice, because this will not face the approval and acceptance of courts, prosecutors, lawyers, lawyers and participants themselves in the proceedings, as well as the accused.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3686	Anybody else answer for a word? Did you answer after the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment provides for the erasure of Article 5 in this article because from now on it is inserted - if the request for exemption is contrary to the provisions of Article 42, paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 of this Code or if it is clearly governed by a delay in proceedings. First of all, the Code of Criminal Procedure has already been regulated that in urgent cases, when there is a risk of delaying the taking of some of the actions of the judges against whom the request for exemption has been filed can carry out those actions. Then there's the question of why this is necessary. Secondly, what one judge is obviously not going to be so obvious to another judge, so this provision introduces legal uncertainty, which I hope, Mr. Minister, you don't want. It is further said - if it is obviously managed to delay the procedure, the request will be rejected in whole or in part. Now I'm really interested in you explaining to me how it can be partly rejected. It's obvious that this is inserted here where it doesn't belong, in a completely artificial way, and that by inserting these words complete this attitude, so to speak, it makes it so legally impossible. What is very important, it follows further, and it says, against the solution which the request is rejected is no appeal allowed. The decision is brought by the President of the Court, and since the opening of the session - bigger. A judge whose exemption is sought may participate from the opening of the session. So, as obvious as the reasons for the exception are, a judge who wants to abuse his function can do so, and there is no legal remedy, no way that a person who has been damaged by such an act would fight it. Since I see that you do not like these European conventions, we will now change a little bit, and so it says - everyone whose rights and freedoms are violated under this Convention has the right to an effective legal remedy in front of national authorities. So it's at least necessary that you leave the possibility of a complaint and that you said - the judge who takes action may reject it, but that the President decides by final decision on the request for an exemption. It could be accepted in some ways. The way you suggested it, we can't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3688	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3689	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since the agenda is very important, and that there are very few MPs of the ruling coalition here, I am expressing my doubts about the electronic system, so please, in accordance with Article 82(2), establish a quorum for the remainder of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3690	Thank you. I ask the People's MPs, we will determine the quorum, to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Here you go. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have sufficient quorum to work with. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. He pulled the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the government does not accept this proposal. The word has a National MP, Stevovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain briefly the content of this amendment. In fact, this article 115 regulates the question of punishing an artist who does not appear on the main search. In particular, the amendment I have proposed concerns professional institutions where a fine of up to 500,000 dinars is foreseen for not coming with an orderly call and non-excusion of the absence, to refuse to perform warlocks and if the finding and opinion is not given within the time limit laid down in the artificial order. I find this height of punishment truly inappropriate. It's been increased many times, so I suggest it be increased twice. It was 50,000, and we suggest it be 100,000 now. The reasons are justified. If the institution is obliged to pay 500,000 dinars for these failures I have listed, the question arises whether the appropriate institution will accept the skills entrusted to it by the court. I believe that Mr. Minister, as a representative of this proposal, in his long-standing practice of arts and individuals, but from professional institutions, considered as particularly important participants in the criminal proceedings which are treated as a means of proof under the Code of Criminal Procedure, and what they demonstrate through their findings and opinions is being verified as evidence. For these reasons, if we start from that assumption that these are human beings, that these are institutions that help to shed light on all the important facts relevant to the correctness of a judicial decision, we cannot punish them with such dragons' penalties. If professional institutions are not competent to give an appropriate report and opinion, I believe they are authorized not to accept a court order. In all this, we have to keep an eye on who we choose and who the institutions can perform. It's usually professional institutions that give the expert commission an expert with one chairman of the commission and members of the commission. They are workers of the appropriate institution and they take personal responsibility for responding to the main search, giving within a given deadline of findings and opinions and adequate treatment before the court. If any personal failure occurs to them, surely the institution that is punished with a fine of up to 500,000 dinars will somehow see it refunded or prohibit them from doing the job, or they lose their jobs. I ask that this be taken into account, because it is nevertheless professional institutions which are before this law and before this state, and also before citizens, by establishing themselves, by their being, have given sufficient assurances that they will work in the interests of society, people and citizens, or that they will act in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, that they will not delay the procedure and will answer all those questions that have been asked to them. When we consider that an opinion can be given within a certain time limit, very often in practice it happens that the judge gives the order, in writing, but that order is just a flat-rate order. When it goes deeper into the artificial process, it comes to the fact that it has to be expanded and that there is a need for a new deadline and a new witch, ensued by what they should do, forget to ask for an extension of the deadline from the judge. That's one of the reasons the facility can be punished for. I think this kind of fact needs to be corrected a little bit and moderated, otherwise we're gonna lose our ability to practice. When we talk about the art technique itself, I believe that a meeting of professional institutions that are designated as experts in appropriate forms with a representative of the government can contribute much more than if we increase these fines to millions of dinars. So a kind word from the government, ministers or experts involved can contribute to the efficiency of the trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3692	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Sarovic, then Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3693	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you have seen, with the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, are proposing to reduce these penalties. I would ask you, Mr. Markovic, to remind the gentleman of the ruling majority who has just entered from the hallway if they are no longer in the hallway, but in the O.R., and when they are already there, they would be better off listening. (President: I thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I warn all MPs who know for what time today very incorrectly do not listen when Nemanja Sarovic speaks. Go on, please. ) Also, Mr. Markovic... (President: I warn you once again, allow the MP to speak. Wait a minute, I'll give you back time so you don't waste your time. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. As I said, the amendment proposes to reduce the fines for which the ruling majority wants to be ten times bigger: for the lack of witnesses, 100,000 dinars, for the lack of a skill, and for the lack of 100,000 dinars, and for the professional establishment of 500,000 dinars. This might be a good thing to do if we were to live in a happy country, a country like the one you make in videos, where birds cricket, where everything is booming and growing, but it's a good thing to go back to reality, to see how our citizens live, and to think about who with an average salary of 12,000 dinars can pay a fine of 100,000 dinars. Maybe one of the witnesses couldn't come because he didn't do city transport, because he didn't have money for the map, because he had to do something to make sure he and his family survived by the end of the month. The basic problem with this, as I've already said, is not at the level of punishment. The main problem is, and the minister has agreed earlier, that this law has been selectively applied. It's like when the government declares a week of security in traffic and says, this week we charge 700 dinars to anyone who doesn't buckle up with a belt. That week everyone's bonding and there's no problem. It is not a problem that the level of fines is 700 dinars, but the problem is that the penalty is not charged. Same case here. I worked for a year and a half at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, never a single witness has this fine really been charged. This measure was used exclusively to threaten a witness in this way, to come to testify. Once someone comes to testify, whether it's been three months since the first call or five years, he says I couldn't because of it and that; you as a court can't verify the truthfulness of those allegations and this punishment must be suspended. Drag into this part this proposal. That's what I suggest. Let those penalties continue to be two, three or five thousand dinars, which is more than enough for an average citizen of Serbia, and only if such penalties do not give a fact, can you prescribe these dragon sentences. Let's try normal fines first, but get those fines applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3694	Thank you. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3695	This member and one of the following who regulates the increase in fines, and this tenfold increase, inevitably requires to ask one question -- why have these penalties not been increased 50 times, 100 times, 1000 times or twice? What mathematics has estimated that these penalties should increase 10 times, and what is the reason? As far as this amendment is concerned, you can see that we have been balanced in that section of the individual's art, where there is a possibility of being in some combination and contributing to a delay in proceedings, etc. We haven't touched your proposed member. But in that section of the institution, we suggested that this maximum amount of fine be changed, that it be smaller, that it be increased only twice, aware that rarely when this fine is imposed by an institution that deals with art and is absolutely aware of the fact that this ominous method is probably meant to scare potential warlocks. I must say that there is no range again, not only for this reason that the decision, as a rule, is put out of force at the next hearing, but for the simple reason that the courts, or judges in long-term practice, can infallibly say who is capable of a correct skill, depending on the nature of the art. And there's already one rating facility that deals with art and probably the least interference with blocking criminal proceedings exists when it comes to these specialised institutions. This is how to pose threats, increase penalties. You said more - a professional institution of up to 500,000 dinars. Please, there's an individual in criminal proceedings, not a legal person. There's no legal face. This isn't a criminal sanction, but it is a fine, something accessory that goes for non-discipline in the process. The judge can't conduct a disciplinary case against the witches, especially when it comes to the institution. As for the faces, you had Dinkic, he was an expert, so Batic deleted him when he was elected governor. Please, in the establishment that such a procedure is being conducted to impose a penalty for failure, because of the lack of discipline during the proceedings - I think it is unnecessary for this provision to exist, especially it is unnecessary to increase the fine 10 times. In that amendment concerning witnesses and other persons participating in the procedure, which is being fined for some non-discipline, we will also be 10 times to state the reasons, what would be 10 times - from 2001 to today inflation is, if it goes sumily, 20-30%. You've made 1,000 percent inflation here. Do you admit that when the law was passed, there was a small amount? I do not believe that the small amount in 2001 was 10,000 dinars, as I am absolutely sure that today for every natural person, regardless of the property in which it appears in criminal proceedings, a fine of 100,000 dinars is a tremendously large amount, and there is a possibility that it is also misused; although the practice of certain judges, or most of them, I must say, is not so rigorous and perhaps there is a reason why some actions are not delayed. As Mr. Sarovic has said, you better keep less punishments, but apply them than threaten people with great penalties that are not applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3696	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3697	President, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to suggest that today's debate be extended after 1800 hours, that we work today until midnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3698	Thank you. I'm putting on a motion that the Assembly is working today up to 24 hours. One out of 125 MPs did not vote for 124. I find there's a quorum to work and there's no quorum to decide that it's up to 24 hours. By the Rules of Procedure or by the amendment? Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3699	Mr. President, fellow MPs, since the proposal failed, I ask that the quorum be determined and then voted to work by 23.30.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3700	Please... At the request of MP Albianic, I ask all MPs to insert their cards to check the quorum again. Here you go. The quorum for the work of the Assembly exists... Please, no counting, there is a quorum for the work of the Assembly. I'm putting Albianic's proposal to work until 23.30 p.m. Please respect the Rules of Procedure, this is the second proposal, the law is the same for everyone, for God's sake. Mrs. Radeta, insert the card so I can determine that you are present. I'm putting the motion to work until 11:30. Four out of 125 MPs voted for 121. I'd like to ask for some seriousness. We're continuing our work. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible. Minister, does the government accept this amendment? The government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 concerning Article 142. Paragraph 1 of Article 142 states that "against the persons suspected of committing a criminal offence for which a 40-year sentence has been prescribed by law" - earlier the text was - "if circumstances indicate that it is a case for which the law prescribes the possibility of giving a minor sentence, the detention does not have to be determined. "However, this second sentence is now deleted, so it remains - if it is justified because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the work. So, then the detention measure will apply. Then, in Article 142(2), point (b) is added to point 5, which reads - if a prison sentence is prescribed for a criminal offence for more than 10 years and if this is justified because of the method of execution or other particularly difficult circumstances of the offence will be imposed, or detention will be applied. The detention must not be a general rule. However, although it is said that the greatest discrepancies with international provisions are precisely in the area of detention, I think that this should be deleted and I have suggested on behalf of the SRS that Article 14, which is related to Article 142, be deleted, so I ask the MPs to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3702	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3703	Obviously, we come to the central theme of amendments and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Practically. 14, 15 and 16 have their beginnings and that's Article 133. It is the Chapter VIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has the title - Measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. So it is stated that the measures that can be taken according to the defendant responsible for the security of his presence and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings are: calling, bringing, banning from leaving his residence, bail and detention. The detention is probably the hardest measure, and that's why it's the last one in this list. But let us not go back to those previous principled provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, though it is not burned to indicate it. The first member of the code says - this code lays down rules aimed at no innocents being convicted and to impose criminal sanctions under the conditions provided for by Criminal Law and on the basis of a legally implemented procedure. The primate is given that no innocent is convicted. Primat is given that no one is deprived of liberty needlessly, and international acts oblige us to do so, and in 2001, we practically threw out the category of mandatory detention, which previously existed in our Law of Criminal Procedure. This change directly introduces the Institute of Mandatory Detention to a small door. It is not so listed, it is not so clearly written, but when looking at this intervention done in Article 142, it is seen that it was the proposaler's intention to sort of determine the detention as something that is mandatory when it comes to some parts that are prescribed a little longer time limits. Therefore, point 5 is added in which it is said - if a prison sentence is prescribed for a criminal offence for more than 10 years and if this is justified because of the method of execution or other particularly difficult circumstances of the offence. Now in one process form, we insert something that can be interpreted as a criminal act, or another -- by the qualification of a criminal act. And it's about the matter of security of the defendant's presence for the conduct of the procedure. I understand that the promoter is under pressure, both the media and some other factors, but I can't understand that these formulas give this discretion to anyone who decides to take custody. And be assured that we will return to the interpretations of these concepts that existed during that period that we all say was characteristic of Russian domination, i.e. Domination of the Russian communist school in criminal proceedings, which was definitely abandoned in 1977, when the Criminal Procedure Act was passed. This is how mandatory detention is returned. It's hard for a judge who doesn't interpret this the way someone wanted it to be. It is not good that, on the basis of practices or several failures of individual investigative judges, perhaps even bigger, when deciding on detention measures, some conclusion is generally drawn and goes with such wide-ranging formulas that raise the questions of the defendants. It's not good, I'm not going to give you specific examples where people spent days and days in custody. During Sabre, no one has even come in to talk to them for 20 days, and they are in custody; and I am not talking about fresh examples where detention is a means of pressure for an innocent person to admit something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3704	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger is Sredodi Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3705	Dear Members, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 217. I know that the President of the Assembly is a kind man, but I still have to get to know the public about what is said in Article 217: "The MP who is on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session." So that's the obligation of all those MPs who are on permanent duty. Do you want attitude two to read from the same article? I don't want this position 2 to apply, and I know that Mr. President is the one who respects the Rules of Procedure and here knows that he's a little bit in violation, but since he's a more sensitive man than he feels like president, he's not going to apply attitude 2. Otherwise, paragraph 2 reads: "The Members of the National Assembly of the People, who are unjustly absent when determining the quorum or during the work at the National Assembly session, will be deprived of the status of Members of Parliament in permanent work in the National Assembly." So you need to be taken away from the status of Members of Parliament on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3706	Mr. Michael, it's obvious that in various cases there is a slight breach, as you say, of this attitude. I think it's more important for us to be more tolerated for the work of the Assembly. Are you asking the Assembly to plead? You're not looking, you're just saying. Is there anyone else answering about the amendment to article 14? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment provides for Article 14 to delete Article 2 which provides that detention may be designated for criminal offences for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for more than 10 years and if justified by the manner of enforcement or other particularly difficult circumstances of the offence. We see that in this article there is an inaccurate and very indeterminate formulation that gives a broad interpretation of this article, which also enables abuse of the detention institutes. I have already said in principle that this is the way to introduce another form of mandatory detention. I said this because this provision fully resembles a provision that existed in the 1994 and earlier Criminal Procedure Act, where just instead of the wording "other particularly difficult circumstances of the crime" it was a crime that could cause citizens to get upset. It was also a broad formulation, and I know that the minister is also known ( since he worked in practice at the time) that besides other reasons for determining detention this member was always listed or only cited this member. If the other grounds for the arrest were to cease, this reason remained, and the detention lasted as long as it was appropriate for the court. I therefore propose that this position be deleted, because there are reasons in the existing law that allow for the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the proceedings and there is no need for this reason to be introduced at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3708	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if a solution to this proposal is accepted, it will be very difficult for every defendant and suspect against whom there is a conviction. A newspaper is introduced that is not known for our right, that in the provision of this proposal, in point 5, "If a prison sentence is prescribed for a crime for more than 10 years and if this is justified because of the manner of execution or other particularly difficult circumstances of the crime". Imagine who will determine and how wide the application and abuse will be here. Great. For nothing, they'll be suspected or accused of making a complaint. The Supreme Court won't respect this appeal either. Remember, this is a very dangerous dig-up under criminal-priced law. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm familiar with the case, I'm not going to name it, that there are 35 persons in Sabbe's action for one case deprived of freedom because the suspects have been charged with committing a crime of abuse and other crimes and that they have unlawfully seized 17m euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't mention people here. These people have been tortured, arrested, filmed, photographed, under which detention measures have been applied unfounded, so that after two court-laws and an institution of the Department of Judiciary finds no harm. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a very difficult time in which our citizens have to be terrified and count on them not having legal protection in criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3710	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3711	I'd like to make a brief announcement about this change, precisely because of my previous colleague's exciting appearance, so that the public won't be upset. It's a rather one-sided situation. When you have certain situations to commit a serious crime, for example. The murder, you know his address, the man didn't run away, admits to committing the crime, and if he doesn't have this provision, you let him go because there's no conditions for detention. Then the people who kill can go free. It must be possible for the court to assess whether the action carried out has a certain weight and certain consequences that would be caused if that person were released. That's why this newspaper was introduced, because I'm afraid without it, you'd be a good part of the crime. He knows his identity, he's got a place to live, and you're in a position to let him go. There are no conditions provided for by this law. That was an explanation of why this provision was entered.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3712	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The MP withdrew the amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and the Government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and the Government does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3713	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 15. The draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure shall regulate the provisions concerning time limits for detention in the investigation, in the investigation procedure. The first deadline for determining detention is determined by an investigative judge and may take the longest month. The prisoner may appeal to the criminal council. The length of detention may then take two months, which determines a criminally greater one. And a complaint can be filed on that. In the end, the Serbian Supreme Court for Criminal Crime, which could be fined for more than five years, can extend detention for another three months. The basic text of the law did not provide for the possibility of appeal to this solution. However, this supplement is projected. The appeal, by the way, does not retain the execution of the solution and is again being decided by the Supreme Court of Serbia, which consists of three judges. There is a small illogicality, because the first-degree solution also brings more than three judges to the Supreme Court of Serbia and again, three-member Serbian Supreme Court judges decide again on appeal. As regards the Constitution, since detention is a constitutional category, Article 16. The Constitution provides for the possibility of detention until the indictment is brought, and that is in accordance with the Constitution, by being in the position of Article 16. The Constitution says that a person suspected of committing a crime can only be detained if it is necessary for the conduct of a criminal procedure or for the safety of people. It is mentioned here that Serbia's Greater Supreme Court will extend detention for important reasons. These important reasons can be diverse and can be the product of various interpretations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3714	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3715	This article refers to detention in the investigation. "The investigation is being launched against a particular person when there is a reasonable suspicion that it has committed a crime. The investigation will gather the evidence and data needed to decide whether to press charges" etc. So, it's about the person that the presummation of innocence is about. So far, there has been a mechanism: an investigative judge for a month, an extension of another two months, if it is a criminal offence for which a sentence has been prescribed for more than five years, then the Supreme Court, on a proposal from the prosecutor, could extend another three months. Practically, the right to appeal is added here, because it came from the assumption, based on the recommendations of some organisations abroad, that there is no guarantee of the right to appeal that belongs to each citizen, against any act, unless otherwise provided protection. But the question arises, what is the purpose of this appeal, which is the scope of the appeal, when approximately the same greater, in the same composition decides on the appeal, as the one which may have been the two days before the arrest extended by another three months. I purposely started the story of this amendment by reading the provisions of the laws relating to the investigation. We're in an investigation, where the range is curved, determined by the Law. I'm making a connection with a previous member where, in practice, it confirms that this bill essentially means introducing a category of mandatory detention. We're not authorized to do that. This prohibits us from the international acts we have signed and which have become, according to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, an integral part of our constitutional and legal order. Yesterday, Mr. Vukic told you that this is probably why we're getting some criticism. Of course, these NGOs fighting for the protection of human rights will not, selectively, raise their voice. They're all on this trail, they support this, because they know it's selectively done. It's known against whom you can extend custody, especially when he's become a liability. It's not good what you're doing because, practically, you deny everything that was done in 2001, and even on the condition that I accept the finding that the Law of 2001, when it was brought, could have been better. His design was better, so you know. The text of the bill was far better than this. What we want to achieve with these amendments is to convince the Proposer - you better return the text from the draft basic text of the Code, rather than go this way. Get rid of the police pressure. The police lighting of the crime is one dimension. There are still people out there who want to cry out for that three-day police detention. Get rid of it, if we really want to go down a path that means democracy. What you're doing, believe me, looks absolutely like The Hague Tribunal. The difference is there's something time-consuming here, a cobajagi, limited, but only a cobajagi is limited. We're not going to rule the UN tribunal in our legal order, are we? That's what everyone who understands a little bit about this area is disgusted with. I just said: The International Court of Justice, the Permanent Court of War Crimes, established by the Rome Statute, rejects the idea and the idea of working in the Hague tribunal. We now have the rules of the Hague tribunal coming here, and even here we hear some terms: "proceed", "prisonment unit". Get rid of it, people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3716	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and the Government's representative does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3717	You're wasting your chance, Mr. Minister, to correct a catastrophic mistake for me. Be assured that this particular article 16 will be what you will be remembered for. He also had Mr Batic, the previous minister, his pearls. I think this will be yours. He's had his previous DOS regime of "Sabre," and I think this is the "Sabre" of this DOS regime. The amendments you provided for in Article 146. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of a practically unlimited extension of detention. We'll start from the beginning. From the prosecution of detention until this bill was filed, it could have lasted for the longest two years. You're suggesting that it be four. If no first degree verdict is given during that time, the detention will be lifted and the accused released. After giving the first degree sentence, the detention may take another year. If, within a year, a second-degree decision is issued to end the first-degree sentence, the detention may take a year, and at your request for two years, since the second-degree court's decision was made. In this way, it is possible in regular situations, provided that everything takes place in the best possible way and that everyone regularly attends the search, that the detention takes no less than seven years. When this detention is taken into account before the indictment, of six months, it is a total of 7.5 years. Seven and a half years you'll be holding in prison someone you say to the first member of this law that will be considered innocent until his guilt is proved! The question arises what happens if he succeeds in proving his innocence, although it is not the obligation of the accused, but it is obvious that such a tendency of this law and that the accused will have to prove his innocence. What are you going to tell someone you're taking 7.5 years of life? Do you think there's adequate material compensation that can make up for someone seven years who's been deprived of spending it with his family, with his friends, with his loved ones? Would any of you agree to go into custody for even seven and a half months, and give it to me? I'll also remind you that current current court practice is about 2,000 dinars a day spent in custody if the person was unfounded of freedom, and at the same time you suggested that 100,000 dinars be punishment for those who do not respond to the call for trial. Is that your justice, gentlemen? Second, there's been a lot of talk here about international conventions. The generally accepted principle in international law is that the level of civil freedoms and rights should not be reduced. I repeat once again, this is a step backwards, this is a big step backwards. It is true that there are courts in the world where it is possible for innocent people to be accused, to be in custody, to have their status completely uncertain, so that even the trial doesn't begin for years. The most famous such court is The Hague Court. I ask you, do you want every court in Serbia to be like The Hague, do you think our citizens want it, do you think that's why Serbian citizens chose you? All of you in the pre-election campaign washed your hands from The Hague court and from co-operation with The Hague court, and now with this law you establish that in the coming period every court in Serbia will be The Hague court. Furthermore, I said before that these 7.5 years have not ended. Article 7 you have added, it is said that "the deadlines laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article shall not run in the period during which the main search is postponed or suspended due to the absence of the accused"... And then I'll stop for a moment. The question arises how can the defendant be in custody at the same time and be absent. So this provision is pointless, this provision best shows that you haven't prepared enough for this law, that this law is the fruit of the games, the fruit of pressure within the ruling coalition. If anyone had seriously thought about this law, they wouldn't have written that someone could be absent from custody, something like that is simply impossible. Also, these deadlines will not run in the event of a defence attorney's absence, the dismissal of power and election or the appointment of a new defender. It's certainly right, I hope you won't deny it by this law, any defendant to be defended in the best possible way. It is the right of any accused person to replace his defender in the course of the proceedings if he is dissatisfied with his actions. What about the cases when the defense attorney cancels someone... (President: Time. ) Here, Mrs. Krstic, I'll interrupt in a few seconds, just to finish my sentence. What about the cases when without the defendant's guilt, there's been a change of defence. What if, God forbid, a defense attorney gets sick, if he breaks his leg and simply physically is unable to access the search, and the court postpones the search for example for three months. It's possible to use faster deadlines and then you won't need a seven-year deadline. (President: six minutes and 15 seconds. What? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3718	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The Messenger of the people Zoran Krasic, then the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3719	For God's sakes, it's hard for students, or professors who wrote the bill and learned about elementary things of law. Let's take a side that you've increased the length of detention in position 3 and item 4, in heading 3 to four years, and in attitude 4, to another two years, so that comes out when you add up in the investigation 7.5 years as a minimum, but what you wrote in Section 7, you'll probably have problems and historians' rights to interpret what the writer was going to say. In the formulation of this attitude, all principles that have been present so far in the calculation of certain deadlines have been disturbed, regardless of whether they are absolute, relative, objective, subjective, the category is introduced – the delay in the calculation of the length of detention. Imagine that bright mind. A man in prison, and they don't count on him to be in jail, and we all know he's in jail, just to justify attitude three and four, so we get virtual deadlines. You probably tried to overcome The Hague tribunal, you can't overcome it and don't bother, it's completely wrong, if it was any motive when you wrote this. I have to remind you again, this article regulates the status of rights and rights of a person who is still innocent. They probably dropped all the grounds for determining the detention and security of his presence to conduct the procedure, probably. No one's going to cause you any trouble for the most serious crimes, but this kind of formulation allows incredible abuse in the course of a criminal procedure. What we all have to agree on is that the prosecutor and the accused parties are in the process and all parties in the process are equal. I just feel bad that I couldn't write one amendment, add one more point, that the prosecutor is being held in custody as an equal party, so I can see him in custody for 7.5 years that he's going to provide evidence for the conduct of a criminal trial. If it is an equal party, which is the equality of parties in criminal proceedings when one in chains is tied, even if he gets a defender under official duty, and some more games, then you've still taken the category of physically present, and by the spirit of the inaccessible detainee, you don't count on him at the time of detention. You know, everything has its limits, but here you've crossed every possible line, you'd better have written one single member – it's being held in custody, and it's going to last until the verdict is found guilty and referred to a sentence of imprisonment. That would be fairer and more honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3720	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3721	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not repeat what the predecessors said, Mr Krasic and Sarovic, because they are fat, but one question is raised, very seriously. What happens if the person is held in custody and released in this manner, according to these provisions, seven and a half years and released, is not proven to have committed a crime, so what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3722	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only make one brief note of these amendments regarding detention. I believe that if it is true, and it should be true and we should trust our minister, that the Assembly of Europe has made one request before our ministry and our government to give up the institution of mandatory detention, and let's accept that, then how can this same assembly of Europe demand that we increase the length of detention that is optional. That doesn't make any legal sense. I ask you to take care of this and correct what we have pointed to. That's why I was very short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3724	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3725	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not speak here as a lawyer, but I will use my parliamentary right to say something as a citizen, of course, in the Republic Assembly. I'd like to remind you of one sentence now of the late prime minister who said in his own time: every state has a mafia, and only with us is the mafia of its own country. Of course, we want to adapt to European standards, that's our future, that's perspective, and that's a requirement if we want to be part of the family of European countries. It is difficult today to adapt to absolutely European standards, when we know that we have inherited a mafia that has its own state. Of course, we all have to remember, get our memories back retrograde and see who's the primary culprit that we inherited. Of course, the guilty are the ones who led this country to the moment until, in the end, we got most of it. Since we want to integrate with Europe, then we will have to apply European standards, but we will have to understand, of course, that we cannot apply them 100%, because there is no case in any country in Europe that the mafia has a state. That's why our laws... and I listened here and I am sure that if all amendments of opposition MPs are adopted, we are tomorrow in the European Union. Is that how it's gonna be? It's easy, ladies and gentlemen, to criticize, but it's only enough to take one thing. Every day you read in our newspaper – killed, stolen, robbed, embezzled, beastly diversity. For these reasons, our law must be repressive. Of course, this detention isn't for an ordinary citizen, it's not for my Kragujevacan, who got paid by five, six hundred marks, and they cut off his fingers and his ears. It's not the law for him, but it's for that impertinent man who broke into the house of a poor host and cut off both his fingers and his ears to rob him. For such, there must be a repressive law, there must be a detention. I'll just say something as a doctor, not speak as a lawyer and as a citizen. They say it's about Article 146 that someone can be in custody without being incarcerated. There are opportunities like that. It's exactly those health options when the defendant has to go to treatment for more than two or three months, and still. During that period, this detention may not count. I'll tell you one more thing, we've had an extraordinary passing of laws in the past. It has been shown through practice that everyone in any way could have thrown out the law and the judiciary. Of course, it's much easier for those people who robbed this country and who have a lot of money, so they could bribe and corrupt and buy freedom. That's what we're trying to stop with this law. Of course, there is certainly a possibility of error, but it must be taken care of; it is certain that any such error, if someone has been in custody or in prison, is a terribly expensive mistake and most expensive for those who have experienced it. I hope we make such a law that will eliminate such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3726	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the government accepts this proposal, so there is no reason for discussion. The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept this proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government accepts this proposal. Here you go, Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3727	The amendment was accepted and I gave the earlier explanation, since it was repeatedly repeated; it was removed the wrongly entered word - blamed, so it does not apply to it, whether it is in custody or not. It was indeed a mistake, the defendant of the guilty, so he remained guilty.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3728	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3729	Ladies and gentlemen, when we passed the Code of Criminal Procedure at the federal level, I was the first person to foresee the possibility of a medical examination in the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's what the federal parliament adopted on my proposal. Why? This was necessary for preventive reasons. If the person was deprived of liberty, if detained, and was taken out of custody and if the person was in custody or deprived of freedom of physical injury, it was necessary to provide evidence if there was a physical injury and that the person had the right to seek the protection of the court. Of course, this was introduced in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and this proposal hardly changes anything, which will say that the statement of the doctor is in the composition of the investigation files in the investigation. So, the only thing that can happen in practice as a problem that will be faced with the face to which the injury has been inflicted is the following. You know, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that only certain doctors are engaged in criminal and correctional institutions and prisons. It's a prison doctor, as they call him. The medical centres determine him and the prison hires him to provide health care to the detainees. It is very important for a doctor who has been hired to be objective and to record physical injuries, to conduct an investigative judge and to submit his findings to an investigative judge and to be invested in criminal investigation files. There's a problem. So, there's just a problem with the doctor, whether the suspect as a prisoner is going to ask for medical attention and, most importantly, whether it's going to be a person of his choice or whether it's going to be a standing, years-old hired doctor who's going to give him protection. But nothing changes from the old, or valid Code of Criminal Procedure, the solution is intended to be made by an investigative judge, if the suspect is required as a prisoner, that the doctor gives his findings and that his findings are invested in the case at issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3730	Thank you. Minister Zoran Stojkovic is represented by the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3731	Since time is running out for today's debate, I'd like to respond to a few of the basic remarks that were put here. A basic objection has been put here to reject the exemption issue. I would like to point out that this provision existed in one period before, and it produced results, it was more discipline. Then it came down with a story that we should give a slightly greater right to the defendant and we came into a situation where we were slow to handle things. The fact that the request is rejected, rejected by a larger one in the sitting, a good number of things in the management process, decides more in the session. There's no particular complaint about that, but there are complaints about the verdict, and if there's a bigger mistake, as it says here, that would be the cause of the appeal, a major breach of the procedure. I especially note here that this is about, in my opinion, one important thing. It's about those exceptions that are aimed at abuse and delay, not those normal situations. And the question has been asked what it is in the sitting and why in the sitting, not to mention. It's mentioned a lot too. You even have that provision that's important, so they say, makes decisions bigger while it's in session. It shall decide beyond those cases the larger referred to in Article 23(6), etc. It's not a made-up, or a new provision, as spoken here. As far as punishment is concerned, they've been increased. There's a fact that very often judges use it as a warning. I'll say right away, giving a fine, even when it's understood in that sense, as it's said here, and how they give the results, the majority comes to trial. They will be applied to those who are willing to continue to abuse that right. That and how significant this issue of punishment shows this reaction. A large number of MPs expressed concern. That means they'll have an effect on those faces who don't want to respect the court. I'd like to say that we all know exactly what the party's relationship to the court is in other countries. There's no relationship like this with us. And how it's respected everywhere, and how judicial discipline is conducted, without those big stories of alleged violations of citizens' rights. On the contrary, the judge has his status, must be respected, and the citizen must comply with it. I think with certain sanctions, our citizens can get in line, start definitely respecting the courts and treat them like they're being treated everywhere in the world. It is said here that this provision in which mandatory detention is changed does not really matter, that a great discretion is given to the court. Even assuming that's the case, if there's no way for the court to decide at all in the first place, because the law says it's a detention, if it's given the possibility to decide, I guess it's still a step forward, regardless of what's being said here is a great discretionary right of the court, but it's given the right to decide. An objection has also been made to the possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court's decision to extend detention in the investigation for the three months. I don't see why there's an objection here, if we've adopted the principle of two-stageness, and in this case it's possible to control that decision of the Supreme Court. There's a fact that they're going to control the second bigger one, but there's been a possibility of two degrees in this case, which wasn't until today. In addition, the mass of other legal medicinal products shall be decided by the General Session, etc. Therefore, the decision of the highest court, of course, that he would have no fourth authority but he, only the question of composition, was given the possibility of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-25-0.u3732	Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. First under this amendment, MP Zoran Krasic has the word. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 104 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Milan Nikolic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE (the follow-up in particular) I remind you that yesterday the National Assembly suspended its work in the course of the review of the amendment to Article 23. Bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. We are continuing the search under this amendment. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic.
