ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Since 90 MPs are present in the O.R., we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Stanisa Stevanović and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxes on the Income of Citizena (definition in particular) On the occasion of Article 12, the word Zoran Krasic was asked for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10104	With this amendment, we asked for the new Article 21a to delete the words "up to 3,000 dinars a month in total". Just to remind you that this member refers to the fact that no income tax is paid, to the premium of voluntary supplementary pension-inhabitation insurance which the employer suspends and pays from the salary of an employed insurance undertaking involved in voluntary pension-inhabitation insurance in accordance with a law governing voluntary pension-inhabitation. We first expressed the wonder why it is limited here to 3,000 dinars. Over 3,000 dinars of premiums are practically taxed at a tax rate of 14%. The government when it did not accept this amendment, she said, because it was estimated, estimated, that the proposed amount of 3,000 dinars per month of tax exemption for the premium of voluntary pension-inhabited insurance was adequately and sufficiently stimulating for the development of investment funds in the area of voluntary as an alternative form of pension insurance. So the only criterion is that someone sat down and measured over their knees. I'm asking a question, so if you're taxing this too, why didn't you put in the premium tax law and say, for example, all insurance? That's the last law in a set of tax laws. That's where you introduced the tax on the premiums of the so-called. non-life forms of insurance. You could've put this there, too. This actually shows that the government has no concept. Nemanja Sarovic explained to you from this pay phone that the part should not be taxed, regardless of whether it is paid by the employer, the insurance company, because he thus assumes the obligation to take care of his social status when it comes to that state of social need. If these assets were to disassemble, that insurance stopped and those funds went into personal consumption, then they should be taxed by law as prescribed, I mean the tax rate. This is how the state stimulates people to take care of themselves while they're working, to provide their own pension-involvement insurance through voluntary insurance, and they're always the owners of these funds, unlike compulsory insurance, where these funds become state property, and they're being spent on other principles. So if we stimulate this, then we need to stimulate it as much as possible, then it doesn't have to be taxed. If those assets are withdrawn from insurance and go as personal consumption from that insurance company, then it has yet to be taxed. I'm just surprised the government didn't accept this amendment, but by not accepting this amendment, you've drawn our attention to that other law on non-life insurance premiums, where you've set a tax rate of 5%, to cover that part of January 1st, and there you're somewhat right, but then why didn't you push this voluntary pension-involvement insurance, because it belongs more to the matter of that law than this law. You're supposed to be giving some kind of release to some amount, and in fact you're blocking the development of that insurance. You're still saying in your explanation, an investment fund is being encouraged, and how is it encouraged by taxation? I think the government made a mistake, and because there's no program, what to develop, what to tax, and that's why we have an explanation that accepts the amendment, and in the beginning it's said that no amendment is accepted. You have to agree to that somehow, because this is how we stimulate people to go and make sure they're willing to save for their old age, and on the other hand, it's taxed. Those two things I can't do together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10105	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. The bill, which provides for the words "author" in article 48 after the word "author" to be added to the words "and related". The amendment I submitted states that the income tax rate of copyright and related rights and industrial property rights is 10%. The current law for copyright, related and industrial property rights provides for a 20% tax rate. We in the SRS consider it justified, after years of illegal privatisation, to be quite a number of companies, i.e. companies, where a large number of workers are left out of work and because of the general social programme that is envisaged by that law, and especially by the implementation of the law, of which a number of people decide to deal with what they are trained for, what they know and what they have to do. Among these jobs that can be dealt with by law by a natural person, i.e. copyright, right of authors, rightholders, and the owner of industrial property, these people can do something about it and work, such as the design of fine plastics, the processing of facades, the design of space, the ideal sketches for tapestry, etc. Taxes are listed many jobs that fall within these three forms of work, where their authors are carriers and owners simultaneously and taxpayers to the state. We in the SRS believe that citizens, or workers who have lost their jobs, who have the opportunity to deal with some of these jobs should pay a lower rate of tax to the state, at least for a start when they are in the new era of transition and privatisation being conducted in an illegal way. We have one example of Natalija Stankovic from Nis, the widow of the late Radet Stankovic, the author of the monument to King Aleksandr Karadjordjevic in Nis, and she should pay the tax as an heir, because it is stipulated by the law that heirs pay taxes on copyright, but the Niš City Assembly and the Nis authorities have not yet paid for this copyright to King Aleksandr Karadjordjevic. So I find it more than justifiable that the Assembly, or the assembly majority, accepts the SRS amendment and reduces the tax rate from 20% to 10% for payment by the debtors, and these are authors of copyright, holders of related rights and owners of industrial property rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10107	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I beg your attention. I won't take up much of your time. The dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been injured in an inappropriate way, in a terrible way and is done by no one but the president of the Republic of Serbia. This morning on several information shows I listened to, where a man says this country destabilizes hate speech in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what he said, believe it or not, the president of the Republic of Serbia. I ask that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, political representatives of all parliamentary groups, sit down to agree and bring in one general act. I'm not kidding right now, because I think the jokes of the President of the Republic have already crossed the line, gone beyond any measure of good taste, and someone has to answer that question. The truth works, never in the National Assembly in the last few years has it been a more normal relationship between MPs, authorities and opposition. Of course we're here to confront and confront, of course Mr Dinkic tells us what he thinks, sometimes hard words, and we answer him, and that's no problem, it's a normal parliamentary practice. But the President of the Republic criticises parliament and why. Because it was about him and the fake assassination. Because they invented the assassination and said that some people treated it unseriously and acted on it. Because I asked Minister Jocic, and I haven't received an answer yet, who was the liaison officer between the Irish Setter and the Irish Republican Army, and the man was in prison for 20 days. Why? Twenty days lay a man in prison because he turned on the long lights. If nothing, then let's bring a resolution or a declaration recommending that all Serbian citizens no longer light long lights or invent catapults that we're going to install in the driver's seat, so when a column comes along with the President of the Republic that everyone catapults at the moment, because otherwise they can't avoid 20 days in prison. Or we should all bow over the fact that one of his advisors paid 250 euros to get some unfortunate guy off the bridge there, because 250 euros didn't even see a postcard of hunger, and for Serbia, nothing. We are talking about how the President of the Republic of Serbia insulted the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the National Assembly must react. He who hates half of the country's citizens, whom he does not address, who he calls extremists, who wants to negotiate with Ramush Haradinaj, and not with his people, with his citizens, will talk about hate speech in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and criticise elected representatives of the people. The National Assembly must respond to this, please, Mr. Chairman, reminding Minister Jocic to answer me who was an Irish-Secretary Liaison Officer, he would not have been Irish by chance if he had not been associated with the Irish Republican Army, and the second is much more important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia responds to such lies, to such insinuations, and to such violations of dignity, not only of the people's MPs, but of the citizens of Serbia. There are honest, honest people sitting here. There's no con man here who invented assassinations, and these people won't let those who invent assassinations for their mirrors and their popularity insult them. These people have pride and dignity, they were elected by Serbian citizens and should protect Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10109	Mr. Vucic, I consider this a proposal, I will tell the President of the Assembly, and I think it is common practice for them to call a meeting with the heads of Parliament and consider your proposal. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 32? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10110	I suggest on behalf of the SRS that the amendment be accepted, but there seems to be a difference between what the government has proposed and what we are asking for in this amendment. In Article 37, you change the point 2) in Article 65 of this Act, and we ask that point 1) be changed, which reads: "No income tax on interest capital is paid", and one -- "on dinar assets by sight. "We ask for an amendment not to pay for all the dinar funds based on savings. If you want macroeconomic stability, if you want free funds that can be employed as trade capital, if you want greater bank participation, if you want to lower interest rates, if you want long-term placements, because banks can only borrow in the long term if they have stable sources of funds. If you want the citizens to trust our banks and keep the money in the banks. So – all, if you want to, then income from these interest on dinar funds based on the savings of citizens should be released from paying this tax. You're practically tax-free only those savings that are seen, which can last for a month, two months, two or three days, which, from the point of view of macroeconomic stability, are not so significant. They are important for maintaining some of the bank's technical liquidity, etc. for some short-term placements and bank potentials. But if you want stable sources of funds, if you want citizens who have the resources to give those funds bravely on savings, whether they're put up for a year or more, then interest-based revenues should be released from this tax that's regulated by Article 65. I'm just surprised the government doesn't accept this amendment. As you can see, we didn't ask for that to apply to foreign exchanges but only to our currency, to our currency. You don't accept it, but let's not accept it, but say: "The amendment is not accepted because it is in Article 65 at point 1) which is not changed by law tax exemption on capital revenues, on interest on dinar assets at sight. We don't think there's any basis for this tax exemption to be extended to armed dinar assets. "You think, you've estimated, you've put over your knees, and we're sending messages here to the citizens – you're saving. Here, let me remind you, already there somewhere in December 2000, and even throughout 2001, as we turn on TV so we see – on a loan car, for two years apartment, vacation abroad, education abroad, full banks, full money banks, you can save free. We're restoring citizens' trust in saving. We've passed laws that regulate the return of old foreign currency savings, the return of those who lost to Dafina, etc. If that's all your message, then accept this because it's only in favor of what you're looking for, what you're declaring. We only specifically propose – free the payment of this tax all the funds, the dinar assets that are based on the savings of citizens. You'll benefit both citizens and banks. You'll also benefit from that part of the economy that has to be in debt with the banks, to secure its own craftsmanship. In this way, the price of capital is also downgraded, as there are permanent, long-term sources based on which banks can go to long-term placements. We now have that, when it comes to citizens, for two, three, or possibly four years, if it's a licking and something like that, but if it's a business, you know for yourself what are high interest rates, and that economy can't handle it. Because there's no stable source. With this taxation, you do not allow a stable source to be formed, and you send a second and wrong message to citizens, even to those citizens who have money to save.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10111	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10112	Based on this argument, which is completely in place, we accept this amendment. So, we missed that, and thank you for your advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10113	So, the amendment has been accepted, but in the day of the vote, since the Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, we will declare this amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Meso Omerovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45. The proposal for a tax on citizens' income tax, which determines in Article 45 the taxation of other citizens' incomes, where incomes which are subject to taxation on this basis are made closer. The basic text of the Law on Income Tax, among other things, stated that other incomes in the meaning of this law are considered revenue made by a member of a student, youth or student cooperative. In the proposal to amend and supplement this law, it is intended to retain only part of the law relating to the person to 26 years of age, if he is in regular schooling. I have submitted an amendment proposing that in Article 45, which changes the existing Article 85 in point 2), it is also amended to read: "2) revenue under the contract on occasional and temporary transactions concluded through a youth or student cooperative, in accordance with the labour regulations and regulations on cooperatives". The same article in item 5 deletes the words "until 26 years of life are completed, if it is at school in institutions for secondary, higher and higher education". To remind myself, the rules of youth cooperativeship and the Labour Act, Article 97, are regulated that temporary and occasional jobs can be done through a youth cooperative, and that they are done by persons aged 15 to 30, who are in regular schooling, students or unemployed young to 30 years. There is no excuse for unemployed young people from 15 to 30 years of age to be placed in a more unfavourable position than their peers who are in school, especially since it is clear that the material position of young unemployed is more difficult by the rule than the material position of students or students. It turns out, when you look at the provisions of this law, that tax status is worsened only to unemployed young people. Of course, that's how it works out. We don't want us to believe that this is so, that they're unemployed young cooperatives punished, and they're punished enough by their fate, which they can't get to school or get to work. We expect the promoter to have a positive answer, i.e. to retain an existing solution in the basic law, as has been foreseen so far, and to make no difference between young people, who are or who are not in school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10115	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property (Single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Veroljub Arsic, Nemanja Sarovic, Milovan Radovanovic, Petar Jojic, Sreto Peric, Milorad Mircic and Vojislav Milajic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10116	This applies to Article 12 of the Law, the last position, which is to say – the property tax does not pay the obligor if the total base for all immovable property of that obligor does not exceed the amount of 400,000 dinars. You listed 400,000 dinars, and before that was 250,000 dinars. You see, 400,000 dinars is about 5,000 euros, and the immovableity of which is 5,000 euros, and you know it's a small amount, and it's a garage, a shed, such an object. However, what we should do with citizens living in buildings that certainly have a higher value than 5,000 euros and are unable to pay. And the very existence of this facility and its property right on that facility does not show a true picture of its economic power and material state. We only asked the amendment to replace this 400,000 with 1,000,000 dinars. What's 1,000,000 dinars for? That's about 12.5,000 euros. Take the ads and see what's sold at that price. At that price, shelter houses and garages are sold. It doesn't make sense. All citizens with a settled housing issue come out of a 1,000-dollar dinar framework, and up to 1,000,000 dinars, those citizens who are unable to pay, and even those small ones, are taxing on property. We just wanted to increase that limit that is practically not taxed. And you see for yourself, 12.5,000 euros and imagine what a residential facility would have to be, and another 12.5,000 euros for all the immobilities of a man. It is not justified to tax it, because when a man has an immovableity in that value, so his material position is not great and this needs to be free of the obligation to pay taxes. In that sense, we have submitted this amendment, and not in the sense that someone can interpret it, we are now protecting someone who has a lot. No, I don't. They are protected by citizens who are in a difficult material position. The state doesn't lose, I have to say, because it's a good thing you're in that article, and we didn't submit the amendment, and where it's worth it, I don't know if it was over 30 million or something, where you increased your rate from two to three percent. That's good. If a man owns a property so significant and so expensive, it means he has the opportunity to pay, and that's where we support you. Give this poor girl a break, for we have explained concrete examples of people living at first sight in much larger objects, and their material condition is bad because, when they built houses 30 or 40 years ago, they had to build such houses. Basically, they never finished those houses. The finished ground floor, the basement, and those floors upstairs are empty, but they prove to be of great value and they pay a great tax, for them a great tax. Anything that could possibly be lost here, with these extras, you get. Just fix the records with this extra, head for Fox Creek and see what's made there. There are about 500-600 square meters of buildings being created, and you can cut your taxes freely, and they won't get angry, they know how much they have, and they know how much they've earned. You've got the support of everyone in the National Assembly. These people to whom the amount of tax poses a major disturbance, let them be free and you won't do anything wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10117	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10118	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 of the amendment and amendment, which concerns Article 24 of the Law, and I have requested that paragraph 4 be deleted. In Article 24(1), the transfer with compensation, within the meaning of Article 23 of this Act, is also considered as well as, in point 4), the sale of buildings, special parts of buildings and construction facilities built for the market. It is already evident that I am the legislator of this law treats these construction facilities that are yet to appear on the market, and already in Article 24a, right behind Article 24 of which is referred to as a member of the dispute, reads: "A transfer with compensation, within the meaning of this law, is not considered to be a transfer of the absolute right to which the value added tax is paid, in accordance with the law governing the value added tax. "We are now in one situation that, by not accepting this amendment, there is a possibility through the interpretation of one or both members to pay and to charge double taxation of one tax. I don't think that this amendment makes any fundamental changes, the basics remain the same, the types on which the tax is paid remain the same, only a little closer to the tax tax, the transfer of absolute rights, and what tax is taxed on the basis of value added tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10119	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22, which is required to reduce the tax rate of Article 30 of the Law from 5% to 3%. It is a tax on the transfer of absolute rights and this proposal, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law, proposed a reduction in the rate of tax on the transfer of absolute rights from 5 to 2.5% when it comes to the transfer of rights to agricultural and forest land, motor vehicles used, water installations used or aircraft used. The SRS amendment is required to reduce the rate from 5% to 3% and when it comes to immovableity. In this way, in our opinion, on the one hand, there would be more legal traffic of immovableity so much as the citizens would no longer be forced to display in contracts less value than the one that is real and that is marketable than the one by which they actually sold the apartment. On the other hand, we think that at least a little reduction in real estate prices, which grow year by year. When this, as well as the previous DOS government, was founded, they promised us a lot of it, and among other things were cheaper apartments. There are promised to be plenty of newly built apartments. We know now that when a value added tax is introduced, newly built apartments will add to it. We've heard a lot of praises here, and when it came to the agenda, it was law-making that founded the National Credit Insurance Corporation. Then we were promised that future apartments would be cheaper. Of course, we've seen that there's nothing of it. Now we ask the government to at least in this way, in the easiest way possible, by reducing this tax rate from 5% to 3%, at least to minimally reduce real estate prices and allow many, as formally and advocated, to reach apartments. The government's argument which, of course, did not accept this amendment does not really make sense to me, because in the first position it says that the amendment is not accepted, first of all, for a balance sheet reason, since its acceptance would reduce the inflow of income into the local self-government budget by around 40%. This explanation can't stand for any more reason. First of all, it is normal to reduce the tax rate whenever income is reduced and budget revenue is reduced, and when it increases to increase. The declared reasons for the adoption of this law and the declared economic policy do not agree. Secondly, what that means is that there will be a reduction in the inflow on this basis by 40%, if the inflow is already based on sales tax, e.g. used aircraft, down from 5% to 2.5%, which means that local self-government income on this basis will be reduced as much as 50%. Does the government protect those who have a need, possibly enormous, to buy aircraft, to buy helicopters, and then not protect, in which case, local self-government. Because when someone buys a plane, it's okay to pay 50% lower taxes, and if someone needs to buy an apartment for themselves and their family, then local self-government must be protected, because tax revenues will be reduced by 40%. I think the government should define, finally and specifically, what social categories it wants to protect. Is it those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in every way trying to reach the roof over their heads or are those categories that try to reach another used aircraft? I guess it's justifiable, because they can't buy a new plane in their misery, they're forced to buy second-hand aircraft, so the government wants to help them and enable them to get to another plane as cheap as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10121	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10122	Since this tax rate of 5% has been introduced, there has been a problem with the traffic of immovable property. All the people who do this job or who are faced with this problem of buying something, selling something, etc. They are simply surprised when they finally see how much they need to pay sales taxes, the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, in the last seven – eight years it is called. Of course, this amendment does not touch what the Government has already changed in Article 22. It's a bill of law, which concerns a member of the 30th original text of the law. So we're not touching point 1), or point 1a, or point 1b, that you're introducing. Just to remind you, you've arranged for second-hand vehicles to be 2.5%. For all the other absolute rights of Articles 23 and 24 you have well stated which property is involved. We suggest that instead of 5% the rate should be 3%. Make sure the state doesn't lose much, or maybe it won't lose anything. If someone claims that reducing the rate will reduce revenues, then you have to give us some analysis and say – in the course of the year traffic is so much and so much, between so many persons, the value of objects that are in traffic is so large and so large, the application and the rate is so large, it is estimated that there are so many and so many objects, the basis is so much and so much and the state is denied by applying the rate with so much and so much money. But there's no explanation for that. The explanation is textual and two places only mention percentages, so we doubt it. I have to tell you that in Article 23 and 24, in particular Article 24, you covered everything that could be taxed. I must remind you that you have done one thing well – in newly built housing, they are not paid tax on the transfer of absolute rights, but are paid value added tax. It is a good solution, so that this price of 1:7, 1:10 will not come out, depending on whether anyone knows Nenad Bogdanovic or these Angelkovics who are running around Belgrade with these permits. That's where you cut 'em pretty good. What they've been screaming - since January 1st, the end of the world, you're absolutely right. But here, now, it concerns the dwellings that are in traffic, which are not newly built, which the second, third, tenth, change their owner for the twentieth time. On any change of owners, that tax has been paid. So we're telling you to take your rate down from 5% to 3%, you're going to have better records in the cataster, you're going to have better records in public books. In the end, this is all in line with the position of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, which represented this when it comes to cars, so it is said – why people drive to some authority, reduce taxes, that people are legalized, that they can drive in their own name cars. Is that what happened? It's the same with the apartments, down from 5% to 3%, and no one will be in a position to prolong and otherwise avoid paying taxes. Beware, he who has money always pays, and he who spends a little; he who has no money. The one who doesn't have prolongers, so he borrows from a cousin, a friend. This is where you told me there was a system solution for paying taxes. It exists, but it doesn't apply. That's the problem, because the tax administration needs to charge it as soon as possible. As soon as he gets those notices, those contracts, the team gets sent out right away, the appraisal is known, they cut off. Eventually, someone's running the appeal procedure, but he still has to pay for it. Someone's not closing the deal. It's actually used, so it's waiting for a more favourable time. With 5% off to 3%, you won't lose anything, because the state for the second, third or fifth time is making income based on the same immovableity. With the newly built, you've guessed, that's a good solution. It'll hold. As of February 1st, everything will fall into place, the price of apartments in the new living space will fall. If he doesn't fall, you know, they buy the ones they have. Tax them. That's good, but let's give it a rest, make sure the revenue goes up, and that traffic will be as legal as possible. When a man makes a contract, he makes a corporal, he'll go straight to court and verify that contract, because our citizens want to meet their obligations, but it's 5% high. Anyone professionally involved in this business, I didn't make it up, but I heard it from these people, that's the biggest problem. In addition, in other countries it is not such a high rate of tax on the transfer of absolute rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10123	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10124	I'd like to comment on your proposal. First of all, I'd like to say that the property transfer tax on second-hand apartments, on used apartments, is the 100% income of local self-government. As for us at the finance ministry, when we look at the Serbian budget, we don't mind reducing the rate from 5% to 3%. I even suggested it to my colleagues, and I even suggested that it be reduced to 2.5%, just like we did for the car. However, they warned me that this way local self-government would lose. What I'd like to order from this pay phone, if there is a consensus in the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities that I can reduce the taxes on the transfer of apartments from 5% to 3%, as far as I'm concerned, I'm in. So you decide when you vote. This is pure income from local self-government. None of this tax on entry into the Republic budget. It is true that the republican register will not be lost, but there will be registers of local self-government, though, particularly of larger cities, since there is more real estate traffic. So it's up to you, the MPs, who represent local self-government. It makes sense to cut down, but to know that there will be less income to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10125	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10126	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krasic's amendment makes sense, as it makes sense to explain Mr. Dinkic. But I want to say two things about this. There used to be practice and regulation that those who solve a housing problem, who first buys an apartment, have big tax breaks. I'm talking about the time when Cačak, who has 100,000 inhabitants, moved in about 880 apartments a year. It was a time when nothing was right in that country. It makes sense that when someone solves their family's housing problem in this way, by buying or building an apartment, they have this relief that this is about. Unfortunately, I'm talking about the same environment again so you can keep track of it, building about 80 apartments a year in Chačka, ten times less. Of those 80 apartments, about 65 buy people who already have several apartments. Most often bought by casino owners, people who bring money from the account "of Shore" company or some other people who launder money by buying apartments. It would make sense and logic, economically, politically and each other, that those who buy these properties that they have more, be either taxed at a progressive rate or at a fixed amount per square metre relative to the estimated or actual value of the square meter of the apartment to be purchased. Mr. Krasic's amendment is serious, he has his logic and his argument, but this is missing what I'm talking about. In this way, we, apart from what Mr. Minister says, would deprive local self-government of significant original income, and on the other hand, of people who absolutely launder money. It's clear to everyone, everyone in their town has dozens of such tycoons that have been doing this systematically for the past few years, thus helping them directly with less taxes, with less money operable illegally acquired profits, illegally acquired financial resources. I could make different examples. It's not my intention here, everything I've said is completely true. Mr Krasic had an excellent intention, Mr Dinkic gave an excellent explanation, but what I'm talking about is not covered by either one or the other. There must be a way to regulate money laundering, if it can't, this is at least next year, because there's something going on in front of our eyes for a dozen people in cities this size, which is not available to any other citizen of this country. In that sense, it's important to know that it exists as a phenomenon, that we follow it, and that by law we try to regulate it in this year or next that it doesn't happen that way anymore. There are people in Chačka who have 50 electricians, which means they have real estate in their name at 50 different locations. All those on this basis will pay 2.5% of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and in this way we, out of the desire to help those who really need help, will only help those who launder money. We should fight against this evil to the extent that we are capable, in which we have knowledge, opportunities and political influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10127	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23. The draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, and the amendment was in the title of this law which was wrongly put into amendments. The basic law, i.e. the law applicable to Article 31(4), provides that when a natural person purchases a residential building or an apartment in a social or state property, with a household law or a right of long-term lease, acquires property or co-owned on that building, the bill states that it should be deleted - i.e. it should be settled and the words are added - or shall be placed in proportion to the participation of social, i.e. state capital in the total capital of the right-holder. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group was proposed to be in Article 23. The bill deletes these supplements. Which is my reason as the applicant for the amendment and the parliamentary group of the SRS, I will read briefly from the reasons, since we do not have the custom, we MPs, to read the explanation, because there is no time anyway. The amendment deletes paragraph 2 because, as amended in Article 31, I am talking about the basic text of the law, item 1 point 4) does not know what the Proposer wanted. The transferor’s capital is social or state property, and the taxpayer is a seller, i.e. a legal person who owns that property, and in the event of the purchase of an apartment by a natural person, you do not know what the promoter meant. This is a provision excluding the obligation to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, not a provision setting out how to reduce and book a reduction in social capital. So the transferor's capital is social or state property. Taxes, the taxpayer is a seller, i.e. the owner of an apartment or a residential building. Due to the existence of value added tax and to avoid double taxation, and your intention is, as a carrier of all these fiscal obligations and tax obligations imposed on their bonds, to avoid double taxation, when it comes to this bill and amendments that I have submitted, that a natural person by buying a residential building or an apartment is not an obligation to pay taxes, which is why it is excessive, unnecessary, and in any case I can say a vague provision on the exemption of the transfer tax provided for in Article 23. It's a bill, and it's still in Article 31 of the existing law. Since this provision is unclear on the exemption of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, then the question is whether it is necessary to exist in this bill. Is an adequate solution when it comes to business space, not just residential buildings and apartments, Mr. Minister, what happened to the former PDO's business space? For this speaker, in answer to one of my questions about this business space, you said that soon the state would issue an ad for giving this business space to future tenants or owners. We have a situation that on November 24th, the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate has issued an ad for the sale of the 2,360-square-squared business space, which is used illegally, thanks to you, by private National Savings. Everything would be fine if it wasn't set up for sale at this private National Savings Bank. You first published an ad in the daily "Today", which few citizens read. Secondly, you predicted that the offer could be delivered to the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate within eight days. The usual practice is that the deadline should be about 60 days and not more than 90 days. You made that advert that the former PDO's business space could be sold, that is, only an offer to give to the bank. You probably don't like what you're hearing, you've predicted to focus an ad to a particular bank you call the National Savings Bank or the private National Savings Bank you call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10129	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10130	In order to avoid any speculation, I would like to inform the National Assembly of this process. In May of this year, as you know, we have informed the public, the government has concluded that 12 banks in Serbia who use the former PDO area are, therefore, not one bank, as you claim, but 12 banks, offering one of the three possible solutions. The first solution is to buy that space. The second solution is to convert the area into ownership, which would increase participation in these banks. The third option was to continue to use the lease, i.e. until the end of the lease by mid next year. I must point out that when payment traffic was transferred to banks, which was on 1 January 2003, a large number of people would be out of work if the National Bank of Serbia hadn't made an agreement with 12 banks in Serbia to take over those banks while using the former PDO's space in return. It was done for two reasons. First of all, these people who work at the PDO know the job of payment traffic, and that's when they went into the banks, and the banks took over to pay their salaries. So, instead of some 1,700 people staying on the street, we've made it useful, I'm sure, an arrangement for the state, so that these 1,700 people are taken over, that banks are paying them, and they're using that space. That space was definitely not used for free. The rent price wasn't in the money, it was in those people's salaries. So 1,700 people were getting a monthly salary from these banks and it's actually a lease paid to the state. That's one thing. The second thing, in May, was the letter, based on the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia, delivered to all 12 banks. Of those 12 banks, five decided to buy space and they would buy space. The assessment was carried out under the law and the area will be redeemed, and the funds will enter the republican budget. Seven banks have decided to convert these areas into ownership, so the state will increase participation in these banks. In particular, your MP group was accusing me, although I wasn't the governor at the time when the recapitalisation was carried out, because it was carried out in September last year, and I was cleared in this assembly in July, also illegally. On the other hand, there's now a completely reverse process going on. The state will again become the largest owner of the National Savings Bank based on this conversion. So, based on the conversion of these actions, the state becomes the owner of about 40% of the shares in the National Savings Bank, and you have just criticised why it is allowed in the National Savings Bank to become the largest, and I am telling you that this happened at the moment when I was not the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, but Mrs. Kori Udovicki. To round this whole thing up, all of this was done according to regulations, based on the government's public conclusion, which was published in the official messenger as early as May this year. The contest is not only published for PDO property used by the National Savings Bank, but also for other banks. After all, competitions are being announced in a concession, based on a programme conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate, so you will also read and see these ads in the coming days. Of course the right of the championship has banks that use that space, for the simple reason that it serves that purpose. If the banks weren't interested and they came out of that space, then it would be an organized bidding to sell it to anyone who was interested. That's the answer, and there's no secrets. Thank you for asking this question and giving me a chance to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10131	Replica, MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10132	Mr. Minister, there's no problem at the private National Savings. The problem is that this National Savings Bank, which we all know is now private, bought or formed by state money. You are via Vexim Bank, and later via Euroaxis bank to state funds from foreign and dinar reserves, which you have placed against the rules of the IMF and the Bank for Accounting and Payment in Basel, of which the money is, through the paper rounding of all the businesses through Findale and Koprom, in fact, formed the National Savings Bank, which you initially said was state-owned or at least that way, handled and photographed yourself in the formation of that national savings bank in the business space of the PDO. That's the problem. The private National Savings Centre is formed by state money, from a pair of taxpayers to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The second and third recapitalisations of the National Savings Bank are controversial. Also, capitalisation was done with state funds through these two companies from exotic islands. So, companies that have the name "Findale" and "Coprom". They performed the paper rounding of the transaction and thus the privatisation of the National Savings Centre, where they owned these companies and Vojin Lazarevic, and Vuk Hamovic, as well as Miodrag Kostic – Kole. The capitalisation began in February 2003. So, last February, when you were governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. You have been replaced, i.e. the Chori Widowly was elected, I agree with you, in an illegal manner in this National Assembly, when there was a vote from Bodrum, the assembly majority – the Bodrum case, with the participation of mostly DS MPs, was elected governor of the National Bank, and you stopped being in that position. The privatisation process, i.e. the capitalisation of the National Savings Bank, began at the time when you were governor and most of the procedure was carried out at the time of your function as governor of the National Bank. It ended about September 10th last year. You didn't follow the finals into that function, but you prepared the whole directorship, the whole procedure, and it ended exclusively with your credit. Whether it's okay or not, and we in the SRS parliamentary group know there's been a major robbery of state funds. That's the problem, and that's why we don't agree with the SRS, and that's why we're providing information that we think needs to be checked and examined. In addition, the government concluded on 18 February 2004 that what was happening around the National Savings Bank was illegal and that this would require someone to answer for a while. I think you're the most responsible in all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10133	The word has a finance minister, Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10134	I really want to express my admiration that you are able as parrots to repeat one of those same untruths. Really, I can't say, I'm thrilled about that. I'd like to say the next thing. The central bank of each country holds reserves not only in its own country, but abroad. Foreign foreign exchange reserves are held at banks, and as far as this bank you mention in Russia is concerned, these foreign exchange reserves were put there during your time in power. So, the foreign exchange reserves at Vexim Bank that you mention were placed at the time of the sanctions, to be absolutely clear with that. Don't throw dust in people's eyes and citizens' eyes. So the foreign exchange reserves were deposited in this bank during the 1990s, I mean the Vexi Bank. Why? Because that's when our economy asked and then Governor Dusan Vlatkovic did it at the request of the economy, and ask now the people who work in Russia, I mean our builders and businessmen, what they think about that bank at all, because everyone will tell you that, in fact, thanks to the arrangements with that bank, they get jobs on the Russian market. If you're against that bank, say, we're against having a bank with domestic capital fund Serbian builders in Russia to be competitive or other businessmen and I don't mind because that's your political position. We need to know the truth. So foreign reserves were deposited in the bank in the 1990s, as is the case in other banks everywhere in the world. I just found the foreign reserve. The participation of foreign reserves in Vexim Bank, when I became governor, was 8% in total foreign reserves. At the end of my term, when I was illegally relieved here on July 22nd, it was reduced to about 2%. So we've been reducing the gradual participation of these foreign reserves in that bank and that's not slowly contrary to IMF rules. I know you've read various reports, so I say and I express my admiration for how you repeat it with one very great accuracy, what you once read, and I want to tell you that it's misinformation. Therefore, it is not true that it was contrary to IMF decisions or to any other institution. Although it did say that in a report that came to you and read the entire public. But, on the other hand, why it's the basic National Savings. There's no secrets there. The National Savings Bank was founded for one single reason. After the need to close four major state banks, since they had a eight billion-mark dubiosis, the question has been raised who will pay off the old foreign currency savings deposited by those citizens. We asked all the other banks -- who wants to pay for the old savings, they all said -- not us. Why? Because it's unpopular for you to take over, to pay eight billion marks or four billion euros, which is not your debt. You'd have saved your lives, and you couldn't do anything else. She didn't want to do that either at the time of the Commercial Bank, nor the Vojvodjanska Banka, any other bank wanted to accept that eight billion marks were being serviced; and the debt was also created in the 1990s. We're going to service it, and that's why it's a dedicated bank that could effectively service the payment of old foreign savings. It's all done in accordance with the law. When this bank did that, here's three years gone by, the maltenes are out of order. Remember how it was in 2000, when people went to raise those 150 marks, the lines were, the columns to get their money. This bank has organised it effectively, and its mission has ended in that sense. Nothing to do with the establishment of that bank, and it was my idea to start a bank, and I'm proud of it, I don't have any further business in that bank, no connection, because that bank carried out the mission. It's a savings service and now it sails itself in banking waters as well as other banking institutions. As for capitalisation, you are right that capitalisation began in February 2003, however, the beginning is different from the end. The recapitalisation is done as follows. First, whoever wants to capitalise on a bank requires the consent of the National Bank of Serbia. We didn't give that consent. So we didn't, when I was governor, we didn't give consent, and just because the proposal arrived doesn't mean that we accepted it. That agreement was given on 10 September 2003, given by Cory Udovici, that's what I've been telling you all along. So, during my time as governor of the state, he was the majority owner of the National Savings Bank. When I was replaced, there was a recapitalisation and private capital came in, the one you're talking about. Another thing, to tell you why it was done in September and why the state did not remain a majority owner or why someone else did not capitalize on the National Savings Bank. While I was governor, there was an initiative that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is a very respectable international financial institution, was capitalising on the National Savings Bank. But the then Serbian government disagreed. The Serbian government, then, thought that if the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development entered, the state would lose most of it and for some reason did not want to allow one participation by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The German Development Bank was also interested. So, since they did not allow the National Savings Bank to accept the participation of these two international financial institutions, and since it stood out by the new law at the end of 2003, the National Savings Bank, as well as all other banks, had to increase its capital to 10m euros. The national savings bank would not have reached 10m euros if recapitalisation had not been carried out in September. And then the management of the National Savings Bank had no choice, when it was prevented from entering the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the German Bank for Development, they simply took two months after my shift to enter this private capital. Now the new government of the Republic of Serbia is bringing things back to what was before. By what you started, we are actually increasing state participation and the state will again be the largest owner of the National Savings Bank in about a month and negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have been renewed, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will most likely enter with one part of the capital into the National Savings Bank and it will become one of the most solid domestic banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10135	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10136	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I resent you for not acting as chairman of these sessions to insult Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, because you are bound by the provision of article 100, which states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, adequately to the MPs and anyone who comes out for this address. Mr. Minister Mladjan Dinkic may have a different opinion than any MP, especially from the SRS MPs, but should take care of how it is expressed and what words it uses. You, as he said, repeat like parrots. Those aren't words, Mr. Dinkic, suitable to be pronounced for this pay phone in this assembly. It is only now that I understand that the President of the Republic was saying this morning that someone was destabilising the situation in Serbia because of a hate speech in the National Assembly. I haven't heard anyone but you today use inappropriate words all this time in a year and that in some ways you can say that they are used in words, words, and hate speech. Mr. Minister, the problem is that the National Assembly's Survey Committee in determining the irregularities in the sale and purchase of electricity found that there was an energy lobby, in which Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic and others, who are also the owners of the Euroaxis bank and of course Miodrag Kostic-Kole of the DS. The problem is, you made it possible for individuals to come up with a big capital, with a bow and a purse in their hand without investing a dime. All on account of the state and the money that you have made through foreign reserves and dinar reserves in the bank you mention, regardless of who founded Veksim and Euroaxis bank in Moscow, made it possible for these banks to reach huge capital in the National Savings Bank. That is the problem and that is the issue that we are arguing about and why we do not accept in the SRS parliamentary group that there is damage to the financial and each other at the expense of the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You've wrapped it all up in celephan, in a package that suits you, since you're doing these jobs and they're pretty familiar to you. But how you don't respond and how you didn't mind the bank's report's reaction to the account and payment in Basel. You've been reported twice that you can't give foreign reserves and dinar reserves to a bank whose founders are natural and legal persons from the country where foreign and dinar reserves are given. (Mladjan Dinkic, from the scene: They never existed. They did. And if they weren't, you know the rule of international standard. You can't afford yourself, then you were governor of the National Bank, to invest foreign and dinar reserves in a deposit or it wasn't a deposit. It is well known that these reserves of dinar and dollar were included in commercial purposes, in the risk area, in Russia's risky market. That's what you have the report from the Russian Central Bank. You want to deny the existence of that report. And they have twice reacted and sent authorities to Belgrade on all these problems and warned that some projects, not to mention some party's activities now in power, are being financed from the profits, from that money of foreign and dinar reserves of the National Bank of Serbia. That's the problem, and in that, Mr. Minister, we disagree in the SRS parliamentary group with these data we have and we claim to be correct, because we have papers, evidence for them. Mr. Chairman, I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under Article 100, because you did not warn Mr. Mladjan Dinkic to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and to ask the Assembly to declare this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10137	Thank you. I owe you one explanation. It is true that you are all obliged to treat each other with respect, but you are conducting a dialogue (returning to the MP) with the minister. As the minister is obliged to treat you with respect, you too are obliged to treat the minister with respect. That's exactly why I didn't react. You have entered the dialogue, but since you are unlikely to be satisfied with this response, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. You want to follow the amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10138	I'm referring to article 100. The dignity of the assembly has been violated. The previous MP also went out to advertise this member, however, reacting to us being more offended, which we heard in this assembly, coming from the Serbian Radical Party. We have heard here insults such as: that the messengers of the people are animals, hens, etc. But what's scariest of all is that the SRS insults all citizens in Serbia, because it constantly tells the truth in the Assembly. And at the same time, they act quite different from what they say. That's what citizens, in individual local self-government, see. However, I hope that one day it will be revealed, so that all this talk in the Assembly will be evident to everyone and I hope that it will no longer vote for the Serbian Radical Party. So let me give you an example, more precisely what's going on in Subotica. The public company DP "Palic" is being sold out, i.e. social property is being sold out illegally. G17 plus in Subotica, along with the Ministry of Agriculture, has been struggling for several days to stop the sale of social property. However, we found out why the SRS is so interested in selling out social property because it needs to be sold out to some local rich people, who apparently paid to run a hack against G17 plus in Subotica. Well, that's the Serbian radicals at work, at the bar. And this in the Assembly, it's a completely empty story.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10139	You'll get your word. Please, the word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please, according to the Rules of Procedure. But once again, before you begin, I really ask you to treat each other with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10140	Mr. Chairman, the lady who spoke about the SRS, has abused the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with your approval, because you gave her the opportunity to speak about the Rules of Procedure and therefore to present the lies and to slander the largest, future ruling party in Serbia, the SRS. From what I hear, somewhere in Palic she's been practicing to be a Serbian radical. You'll have to work out a lot more, because I see you tend to be a Serbian radical. But you know, it can't be practiced, because to come to such an elite society as Serbian radicals, you'd have to, miss, learn a lot more. When it comes to the SRS and the voters who voted for us and what trust they gave us, you have to make sure that people have their heads, on the basis of their conscience and conscience, chosen any councilor in any city, or in Subotica, which is from the ranks of the SRS. But, you know, there are a lot of municipalities and cities where they didn't want to pick anyone from G17. You didn't pass the censorship in Kragujevac. You talk a little bit about how many of you there are, you see what this is about, why in one such town you can't even see on a postcard the city hall building, then go out and talk about something, with a reminder, Miss Momirov, right, so you have to go through radical Novi Sad to come to Saturday.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10141	Please, you will be entitled to the replica, but I do ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, neither, but to stick to the Rules of Procedure, to somehow bring this session to an end in the working atmosphere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10142	Ms. Jovanovic, this is not a discussion and discussion between the two of us personally. This is about responsibility. It's about the citizens of Serbia. What I said about Saturday is true. So I'm behind it. The SRS represents the interests of local rich people, participates in the sale and extraction of social, state-owned assets. It's the truth and the fact. G17 plus is the first time in power in Subotica and won't allow it. The sale of state property has been going on for years, so we're all witnesses, and you're still trying to do it. We won't let you do that. G17 plus won't let you pull state property anymore, because the state is only a party to the G17 plus, obviously.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10143	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10144	The minister's gone. If he were here, he'd probably accept this amendment. Okay, I'm telling you, and you're laughing. But now you'll understand when it's all read well. You see, when women and frogs get mixed up, then the law turns out. Well, it turns out the law, so in Article 29 of the amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act, the Government has written that it is being passed. Introduces a new member of 38a and not to be surprised, means the Law on property tax, and they have installed in that law a new member who says: "The registration of the right to real estate in land, cadastrian and other public books cannot be done without proof of the paid tax on the transfer of absolute rights, i.e. the paid inheritance tax and gift." What's accessory here? Whether it is accesory – tax paid, or accesory – entry into books. But the truth is, neither of these two is accesory, but they're both independent rights. Completely independent rights. And tax law cannot regulate conditions based on – if these conditions are met, a book can be entered. He can't. Babes and frogs can't be in one place. That they may have prescribed a communication obligation for this member, etc. It could stand, as it stands for you in one of the previous members of the court, where the court before the prosecution had some obligation. But something like this can't stand in the law. There, and that Article 29, you have to delete from this bill because it doesn't belong here, and the other one goes beyond the authority that the state has when it comes to this area. We cannot, with the authority to regulate taxes, abuse that authority as a National Assembly and regulate something that is regulated by the Law on the Cataster and other regulations that regulate an entirely independent right, which has no obligation to tax. Here, by any chance, if there was no tax obligation, you would still be left with this provision where there is an obligation to prove that he paid something, and he is not a taxpayer. So you have to keep an eye on something when you translate. I know there's a need -- grab the money, fill the budget, cut the deficit, and 20 billion this year is leaving the primary show, the one you swore to be banned. That when you come to power there will never be a primary show. By turning short-term into long-term commitments, which Serbian citizens are pacifying through budget by 2010, you stepped on it, and here you go. He can't sign up for a single change of owner unless he has proof of the owner's tax. Essentially your request is justified and your interest, but it cannot stand in law. You can't, by tax law, prescribe how an enrolment authority will behave. He can't. On that basis, you could say – the court must not verify the signatures of the contract unless there is evidence of a tax payment. Then what's the main one? Whether or not the court is willing to charge taxes in an indirect manner or the court is only authorized to establish identity and verify that these are authentic signatures. If that's what you want, then you could put the tax code and the criminal law, and the litigation, and the enrolment in land books, and the bill on bonds and checks, and the Law on privatisation. We're setting the agenda for the whole year, bringing the debate together, all points into one, and then joining all the laws into one. Let's put all the laws together at one, and don't worry if you're going to make a mistake. It's all in the same place. This can't. It's forbidden. It's forbidden by tax regulations to regulate how someone will register. It is prohibited for tax regulations to determine the conditions on which the entry into the relevant public books is made. So, grandmothers and frogs, experts, make a difference, and when you practice speech, practice a little knowledge. You practice a little knowledge, you master political training, and you can't do this and you can't do this, and don't just practice on the microphone who's going to look nice. It's not just politics. It's got to be a bit of a waist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10145	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10146	I want to support the amendment submitted by MP Petar Jojic, because it happens to all finance ministers that they think they are gods. Don't think this was invented by Mladjan Dinkic. A minister before him made up that you can't register a car if you don't get confirmation that you've settled the tax. It was the citizens who suffered and suffered, and in the end it had to fall, because it was completely immoral. That's the way it is with this. It's not the tax code of the Constitution. He is equal to other laws both in rights and obligations. He can't make a commitment under other laws, and he can be the basis for everything as a superior law. I warn the finance minister, his behavior goes beyond the limits of democratic society. By this law once again he, who knows which way, insults the National Assembly and the laws that apply in the land. I'd like to introduce you, the IRS has received a letter from the finance minister, under whom it is required to impose the maximum penalties provided for by law in the infringement procedure. We here, as MPs, agreed and voted on laws saying that someone could be punished by a penalty of between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars, and the finance minister ordered the services that the law enforce to impose exclusively maximum penalties. Then why are we here? If we wanted there to be only one punishment, we'd say the penalty for an act is so much and so much. And we predicted that someone should appreciate and that there are differences in violations, and the minister says no, but only maximum penalties. It's a direct interference in the work of the National Assembly. And so do you with this member of the law. It is every minister's desire to collect as much income as possible, but it has what it can and has what it can't. Go doesn't strip, you from G17 plus, you don't strip, and everything he wanted to do as a goal, as a go can do, there's nowhere else to go. You'd like to strip naked. Since you run finance, there have been fewer taxpayers and more tax obligations. It's a direct violation of the Constitution. You should make sure there are more taxpayers and fewer obligations. One more thing, like Job, is not like the ox, so where do you get the right to claim that we're robbing something on Subotica? Who are you from G17 plus that you've determined that we're robbing something in Subotica? Is that hate speech? Did you grease Boris Tadic to accuse the National Assembly that it is a problem for Serbia, as it is ruled by hate speech. Who are you accusing of robbing? And who's accusing us? G17 plus? To cover yourself well with your ears, because you're naked, JUL, and they've been hiding everything they're doing, and you're stripping this country naked. If you have to suffer for your voices, I don't have to put up with you, and especially not to be called here from this pay phone. You, who have taken everything in Serbia that can be taken, you who have taken 10 times as much as those that are ten times stronger than you, we will endure you for a few more months, but only for a few more months.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10147	The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10148	Well, Mr. Nikolic, I don't have to put up with you talking like this either. So, as for G17 plus, you well know that we are the responsible political party, which wants to create a strong and strong democratically stable Serbia. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as the criminal measures you've mentioned, if the Assembly has given the possibility from-to and if we want to build order in the area of finance, if we want to narrow down the gray economy, I don't know who you're defending. So if someone commits an offence, if someone wants to cover something up, if someone wants to steal it, if someone wants to damage the state of Serbia in any way, they have to sanction it. You can't stand in defense of people who want to stick their hand in the pocket of the Serbian state. The state is a serious institution, serious institutions are further upgraded and cannot be accelerated by speaking here, from the pay phone, so that people let's cut down a little bit, let's see through their fingers, if they do direct damage to the state. So we really need to talk here and get back to the agenda. If we start that way to talk to the prosecution, we won't get far. On the other hand, you mentioned options G17 plus. Now I'm going to tell you that the latest public opinion research says that we're going uphill, that it's someone's thorn in the eye, and you'll see that G17 plus in the future will increase the number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament. How? Responsibilities, results of work that become visible every month. So don't worry about G17 plus, take care of something else. As for the President of the Republic, who you mentioned, I warned him that he must take care of the Serbian Parliament and that he cannot say that he does not listen to parliament. Everyone in this Serbia has to listen to parliament. Parliament is the most legislative body in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10149	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go. Name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10150	The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, for I have never said that those who break the law should be forgiven and be dominated. I just called for you to show that protection of the National Assembly in action, and I said, if we have provided for penalties from-to-do in law, the minister must not order maximum penalties to be imposed. He can't. He's hurt the law. He's hurt the congregation's reputation. Please tell the Serbian president that there are many 65 servants serving him now from the Serbia-Montenegro Army. From maids, cooks, security guards, the entire Guard brigade is starting to worry exclusively about the president of Serbia. The other thing is, I don't care if you guys went uphill. I don't care about that at all. It's a lot harder uphill than downhill. You'll get tired soon. Now I understand why you wanted to kidnap the Serbs. Of course, you won't make it, I guarantee you with the power of the SRS. You need somewhere to hide after this election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10151	Replica, MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10152	Have you been hiding there, Mr. Nikolic? So let's get the story serious. The G17 plus is always in the protection of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you want me to tell you, G17 plus here is the most working and disciplined parliamentary group. You can check that every morning, every day, who takes a serious part in the work of all committees, who is always regularly held at meetings of the National Assembly. Whoever isn't, count it. G17 plus is a serious political party and will take serious part in the work of the National Assembly and in the future, and you will witness it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10153	Is anyone else answering for an amendment to article 29? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10154	We asked this amendment to delete the words "except in the case of Article 39 of this Law" in Article 30. It's a brand-new member who's being assigned to the next member. Since this amendment and the next one are in a direct relationship, I have to include this next amendment, in order to make it clear what it was before. What's this about? You new Article 39a prescribe this: "When the transfer of absolute rights to securities of value is carried out with a fee in cash, in the Central Register, at the same time with a balance" etc., that I do not read, since it has three attitudes. But the bottom line of this change is that you, by tax law, prescribe the Central Register's obligation to carry out the tax bill, so even this subsequent member, that's Article 43, is also a penalty for a violation. You can't bring down the Central Register to be the IRS or the IRS. If this law passes and goes through this provision, then the Central Register is not independent, then the Central Register is not what is in the Securities Market Act, then it is a tax base. You could have prescribed the obligation to the Central Registry to notify the tax authority, so on the basis of that data, the tax authority would bring a solution, make an account and order the payment of the tax. You say, "Central register, for the transfer of paper from the value to which the tax on the transfer of absolute rights is paid, for every taxpayer... on behalf of and for the account of the obligor, he shall suspend and pay the prescribed public revenue account." It can't be done by the Central Register. The central register can't be an outpost of the tax administration. He can only notify the tax administration what is done, what is the transfer carried out in the part of his jurisdiction and, on the basis of that, the tax authority makes a tax ruling and orders the payment of taxes, and the Central Registry cannot do so. This amendment and the next two amendments speak precisely of the fact that the National Assembly cannot by this law alter the essence and character of one body formed by another law. If this is inserted into the jurisdiction of the Central Register, then he must change his name, then the Securities Market Act must be amended. It would be about the same as if the Ministry of the Interior, the Law on Ecology, were given the authority to do some work – whether those who come to the government have nail polishes. It's in that plane. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Inform the Minister, if he cares about these three members to pass, on which we have submitted the amendments, immediately amend the Securities Market Act and have the Central Register shut down, already write – the Central Register is the establishment of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Serbia, and then it makes some sense. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10155	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does anyone else who has not used the law want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCISATIONS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dragan Petrovic, Veroljub Arsic, Vjerica Radeta, Milovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Koprivica, Stevica Dedjanski, Petar Jojic and Dragoljub Stamenkovic, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected the amendment to Article 1, which was submitted by MP Slobodan Zivkucin, as an untimely one. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment is Commissioner-in-Office Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10156	This is another amendment that regulates the text of the article itself, that is, the law – how it regulates the obligation that arises from excise duty. In the very proposal for a law on the establishment of excise duty is based on the placing on the market and place of origin, and according to this amendment which has been submitted to the excise duty exists on a particular product, regardless of where the turnover of that product occurs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10157	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10158	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, so often changing the excise laws since 2001, for the eighth time, have been talking about the Minister of Finance and the Government that he represents here very inconclusively approaches the resolution of these problems, i.e. the normisation of this matter and seems to, whenever the minister lacks money in the budget, he proposes amendments to the Excise Act, increases excise duties, and then tells a completely different story here, that Serbian citizens are made to live very well with Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Of course, citizens know well that they live very badly and that they live worse every day, and that there are no new jobs, and there are no higher salaries, and there are no higher pensions and there is nothing of promise to Mladjan Dinkic, or Vojislav Kostunica, or Boris Tadic. Yesterday I spoke, and today I will repeat, more and more citizens say, something more expensive again because of Dinkic's VAT, something more expensive because of Dinkic's excise duties. So that's what Serbian citizens think of the minister, the government and your tax policy. What we Serbian radicals think about this law is what we said and in the principle debate, we said it through amendments, specifically in Article 7 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which I submitted the amendment to. Article 7 of this Act refers to Article 8 of the basic law whose amendments and additions are required. And Article 8 said: "The basis for calculating the excise duty is the unit of measure (litre, kilogram, piece, pack, hectolitre degree and other)", and you deleted it in changes and additions, so you said, in Article 8 paragraph 1 - litre, kilograms, piece, packs, hectolitre degrees, etc. are deleted. We in the SRS think that this should not be deleted, so we said that the base for the calculation of excise duty is determined on the basis of the quantity, according to the unit of measure (litre, kilograms, piece, pack, hectolitre degree, etc.) and the value of the product. That's what we added to that article of the 8th basic law. The amendment shall specify the basis for the calculation of excise duty over three elements: the quantity, according to the unit of measure and the value of the product. That this amendment is meaningful and relevant speaks and reason of the government which is why this amendment does not accept. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term "unit of measures" refers to the quantity of a specific excise product to which excise duty is paid, and also to the members of the law relating to the prescribed amount of excise duty for each excise product other than cigars, cigarillos and coffee, the unit of excise duty (litre, package, kilogram) is indicated. "So the government says this is how it is, but here it does not accept the amendment. I guess what the Government will do with the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. We spoke to you yesterday, and now I will repeat, since the Government has not accepted, I am now addressing the MPs of the assembly majority, so that it would be good for you to accept this amendment, as well as the other amendments of the SRS parliamentary group, because everything you do not accept today is waiting for us in a month or two days through some new amendments and additions to the same law. That's what they did before you, that's what you do. You will not listen to well-intentioned and professional advice from our parliamentary group, so when you realize in the course of the application of the law that what we have proposed is quite important in the application of the law and that what you are proposing is a distraction, that it creates possibilities of abuse and free interpretation, etc., we always refer you to concise and clear legal standards, in accordance with our legal system, in accordance with the Constitution. You go deaf every time, and when you get into a situation in application of regulations to realize that we were right, then you offer us changes and additions, then five hours of debate about these changes and additions are spent again, and then you change and you lose as much time as you waste because today's session started at 11:45 instead of 10.00 hours and because it's done every day. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that in order to reduce this future procedure, because of the regularity of this law, and because of the easier application of this law, you accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10159	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises and to better understand, and you and the public who are following the transfer of the session of the Assembly, I will read the whole of Article 12. Proposal for amendments and additions to the laws submitted by the Government. It reads: "The alcoholic beverages are considered drinks which, depending on the raw materials of which ethanol is produced and content, are placed on the market as such in accordance with the rules on quality and other requirements for alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic drinks, within the meaning of this law, are considered all types of beer, regardless of packaging. Excise is paid on alcoholic beverages in the following amounts: - 1) brandy: from grapes, special brandy - 53.83 dinars" (and amended, compared to data, I predict it to be 30 dinars, as foreseen by the existing Excise Act);-from cereals and other agricultural raw materials (provided by the bill now under consideration at the National Assembly session) 136.55 dinars per litre (and I have proposed to amend it to be less, 126.00, as also provided for by the existing law); 2) heavy alcoholic beverages and lique 87.54 dinars (I suggest that it be 80.78 dinars, as provided for in the current law); low-alcohol drinks - 9 dinars per liters (I suggest that it be five dinars, as currently stands in the law. )"We in the SRS are concerned that by increasing the excise duty on alcoholic beverages, liquor stores will be transferred into illegal flows. I don't understand the increase in excise duties on alcoholic beverages. I am trying to understand and I am coming to the conclusion that you want to increase the excise duties on these drinks since President Boris Tadic has shown the need to cover the world's big travel costs anyway, and also the vice president of his party, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, was in BiH and Republika Srpska for his 65 people who serve him, for his large fleet, to buy cars, escorts and security. The only thing I can understand, although we in the SRS consider unnecessary costs of all this happening in the state of Serbia, is that this is why you want to increase excise duties on alcoholic beverages. I believe that this amendment is justified and meaningful, because you will retain the traffic and trade of alcoholic beverages, taxed in the existing law, in legal flows. An increase in the obligation to charge the budget will turn the sales of alcoholic beverages into illegal flows, off-drinking gigs, off-trafficking shops, somewhere in the streets, in hidden places, so that it will not benefit the state, but only those who deal with such a kind of trade, not respecting the laws and laws of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10161	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10162	There is no minister, of course, his job is to explain his solution and eventually indicate if the MP is wrong, so we speak as when caravans pass. I'm interested in a few things in this article. Namely, what are the new rules that sort alcohol drinks in a different way, if there is still a law by which drinks are classified as they have so far been solved by excise duty, and if the law on brandy, wine and alcoholic beverages is in place or as it is called, it cannot be the basis for the determination of excise duties under the law to be passed. Excise can only be established against drinks if the drinks are classified under the applicable law, and that is one thing. Prejudication that some law will be passed, so that we do not change the law on excise duties, is not legal and the Assembly should not be insulted and humiliated in this way. The second thing, it explains, is that the proposed amount of excise duties on alcoholic beverages and beer corresponds to current amounts, with them being increased by the retail price index expected in the last quarter of 2004. You had to explain to us how much excise duty is now, not how much it was intended by law, when three months of compliance with the rise in prices is already allowed. The law says that the proposed amount of excise duty, then valid for alcoholic beverages, was 30 dinars, and now you're proposing 53.83 dinars. That means now the excise is somewhere around 45 dinars or maybe I'm wrong. This would help MPs to propose a solution not from the law, but a solution that is now in force in the amendment. I know the excise now isn't 30 dinars. On the other hand, the amendment could not be justified. It is not the duty of an MP to ask how much excise duty it is now, when it has been harmonised several times a month. It's the duty of one who handles the bill. So I'm asking you, what is the expected rise in prices to a little bit in the last trimester, or what is now the value of excise duty on alcoholic beverages. Then we'd know what you're predicting for the last quarter, how much life will cost us. It is right that the MP who says that every entry into the excise law is motivated by the desire to charge as much revenue as possible. It may be easy to prove to the citizens of Serbia that the drinker should and pay. It's not the tax administration, it's not the finance minister who's in charge of dispensing people from drinks, it's what social services do, the people who are trained for it. The tax authority, when it prescribes extremely high prices of drinks, tobacco, gasoline, cigarettes, excise goods, that can't be just because it's poison. It's not poison, because if it was poison, the people wouldn't use it. It poisons a man, but it's in sales. There's no poison in the sale. So on the one hand, it's a desire for people to use what is less, and on the other hand to use it to get income. Now it needs to be coordinated. You have a minister who fights for human health, so he says, it's forbidden to advertise cigarettes, alcohol drinks, and then get out of the Ministry of Health and point to the harmfulness of smoking, and you have a finance minister who can't wait to see matches and cigarettes on fire, and I understand that. Completely conflicting interests, each one of them carrying them out in accordance with his work, but don't just exaggerate. It's hard to find a measure there. Alcoholic drink can't be expensive, but you know that many people consume alcohol and even if it's too expensive. At too high a price for alcoholic beverages, you may have condemned many children to have no bread, for a man who suffers from alcoholism thinks first of all to meet his needs. Let the factories work, make up the production budget, not the consumption. This consummation and increasing consumption obligations may take one, two or three years, and then they'll break, they won't have anything to charge. That's why I'd like you to think about production, not consumption. I would like to see here a team of experts from the ministry who care about how the revenues are poured into the production budget, not from excises, imports of Slovenian and Croatian goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10163	The word has an MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment to the SRS interesting from another point of view or aspect. In his opening statement, when he spoke about this law, the minister explained something that did not say, but would likely be applied in his own words, practically in his life. It is understood that she thinks that excises on alcoholic beverages produced from fruit should not be this high, so 53.83 and that is a great burden for fruit and special brandy producers. So, the burden on the peasants, and here's why. On the one hand, the Ministry of Agriculture encourages farmers to plant new orchards, and about 400 trees can be planted on one hectare. When the orchard is on average, it can be between 15 and 20 tons of plum from that hectare. When you have a situation like this, that the villagers don't know what to do with the plum, because there's no organized ransom, there's not enough capacity to buy that plum, then it's domestic and rational for a peasant to bake good brandy from that plum. Let's move on, in Article 6 of this Act, when you list who's all bound by excise duty, you have a point 1) where you say, a natural person – a manufacturer who sells alcoholic beverages to another natural person. When the tax collectors apply this rigidly, without additional instructions from the Ministry of Finance, then every farmer who produced any amount of brandy and sold it to another natural person to perform the joys, weddings, etc. will be bound by this excise. The minister said it would not apply to thousands of Serbian peasants who have their own words and in those told, bake relatively small quantities of brandy, such as respected counterpart Tomislav Nikolic, and I do so myself sometimes. Secondly, even if point 1) does not apply, you have a point 2) in Article 6, which says that the tax collector is a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur who buys an alcoholic drink from a natural person. What are we doing now? When the manufacturer wants to sell it to a restaurant, to an independent shop, to a company, etc. Then it is a legal person, who buys brandy from peasants, under the obligation to account for 53.83 dinars of excise duty. We've broken something that should be good for a peasant. I only see the way, since no one has, not even I, late noticed it, I have not submitted an amendment to this Article 6, that the Ministry of Finance, with its specific instructions to the municipal tax administrations, gives orders not to chase peasants around Serbia who sell brandy produced in their sentences, etc. We have no choice but to be fair to the peasants. The second thing is whether it's really okay for us to coordinate three months, to talk ahead about what inflation or price growth will be like in the last three months, and it can be that, when 30 dinars rise for a rise in prices over the past two years, it comes to 53.83, but I think that's where Mr Nikolic is right. We do not need to have such provisions, but slightly different ones, and especially those provisions that would at the moment be in the way of further development of these rural owners, especially as we convince them that it is good for them, and even some legal provisions confirm that they are registering as farmers, opening their giro and current accounts with business banks, that what they receive on the basis of subsidies will not be taxed, if we try to make life difficult through these excises, because we objectively collect his product and he will not be able to find on the customers. One more thing, the question of the definition of the manufacturer is also open. The Act on Alcohol and Wine defines who the producer of alcoholic beverages is, even when it comes to a natural person, and the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on how to give excise stamps speaks in some way about how you must now prove that you are a producer, that you have obtained an excise mark, you have placed that excise stamp on the packaging of your alcohol or brandy you have produced, and only then do you pay for those excises. So the complications plus. I simply point to this as a possible problem, and I ask the minister that what he said about the pay phone, he writes and informs the municipal administrations so that the peasants do not encounter unnecessary problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10165	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10166	This amendment is also so important because of the different attitudes of the Ministry's people on this issue of taxing a single liter of brandy that someone is producing. If there's one or two raki, 50 liters, this is what the law says, no matter what the minister said, those 50 liters would have to be treated as a raki on which the 53 dinar excise is calculated. That's completely insane. I can understand the desire to adapt it all in the EU, so everything has to be taxed and everything has to be excised, but these are some other countries that are approaching the EU solved in a different way. In Bulgaria, they decided that each household has the right to produce up to 50 liters without excise duty, without being taxed in any way or to enter into payment traffic at all. Some others took care of it... (Dusan Prophetovic, from the site: For personal use. ) For personal use, it is treated as personal use. Well, well, when it's 50 liters of its own, then it's for personal use, because the neighbors will give it for glory, I can't... It's completely different here. One is the statement by the minister, and the other is the statement by the assistant minister, Mrs Arsic, who said that, of course, it is precisely written here, which means that every litre produced by the peasant is treated in a way that is produced and must be calculated by excise, which means 53 dinars. I hope, of course, that someone doesn't think to go from house to house and write down every liter now, whether there are three liters and whether a woman hid 10 liters from her husband in some sofa, but since that's what it says in the law, and we're trying to make sure that the law is strictly implemented, if it stays like this, then someone might be able to provoke someone or cause trouble to strictly enforce the law and go from street to street, from peasants to peasants to write him a brandy, get him a pretty sticker, and ask him to pay 53 dinars of excise. The minister was at a meeting when we talked, and he promised that the government would propose an amendment to this. If there's no amendment, it's hard for us to support the whole law. We just need to know what the law says and know whether or not the peasant will be loaded by this process. Don't, on the one hand, when it comes to the peasant pension that we now don't have the money for six peasant pensions to add to reduce from 24 to 18 behind how late it is, and on the other hand, to look for a way to burden the peasant household with an additional 53 dinars per litre. Let's not talk about helping the village, and we're coming up with legal acts and legal projects that devastate the village and burden it further. Imagine now that someone goes, every inspector through the village, so that they measure how much they, as it says in the law, produce brandy and charge him for that liter. I think the sources of revenue in the budget should be sought elsewhere. For example, the Ministry of Finance has to deal with how the previous DOS government or, more specifically, the Ministry of Social Policy, so much praised the Ministry of Social Policy, printed bonds in the election campaign, printed in private instead of in the National Bank of Yugoslavia with a stamp, the printed private bonds were so well printed that 800 million states were damaged, so that those who printed, with the people involved, damaged PTT, and thus the state by 800 million. Please, let the state find a way to blame it, to file criminal charges against those who have printed such bonds, the previous ministry and the DOS previous regime, who have printed with the private bond, not the National Bank, the official state institution, which is supposed to print money, which is printing money. The printing of bonds is the printing of money, and printing of false bonds is pure inflation. So I'm asking that we get information about the finance ministry to see exactly what happened to that 800 million, who's responsible, who was involved, whether it was an election campaign, so it doesn't matter who takes it. Did it go to Tadic's election campaign of 800 million or somewhere else, I really don't know, because if their ministry did it, then obviously there's a possibility of a deal to make fake bonds, and let's not burden the villagers, because it's crazy to chase every peasant's village whether they baked 50 or 100 liters for fame. What else is he going to do when the price of grapes is what it is, but it's making grape brandy. He's not gonna sell grapes for free, because he better bake some brandy, so he's gonna drink the winter. It's easier for him, then it's easier for him to handle the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10167	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10168	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dinkic gave his word that according to the Rules of Procedure, the government will write an amendment that will correct what MPs Jovan Todorovic and Zoran Angelkovic spoke of. It didn't happen, and we'll see how things continue. I also want to help with a few sentences to explain what this is about. There are areas in Serbia that need to be helped, not by some tax or excise duty, as is being done here, but by helping them maintain plantings, primarily plum burners, which are measured by dry gold. That plum has been compromised in the last 20 years by a virus called "chara." There's no way to practically heal. There are people here who do different things, but I'm surprised that's the case. The plum burner has 180 ingredients that fully correspond to the composition of mother’s milk. The only food, or fruit, is that without previous food can be taken on an early morning, and someone would say of a mother - in - law or a mother - in - law. There's no way to save it. In the last 20 years, only in the Takavo-mining area has been practically decommissioned or dried hundreds of hectares of these so far. The production of brandy from this kind of fruit is only necessary and has already been explained by colleagues. Because there's no one to buy out such a plum because they don't understand what they're missing, and because this way, according to those only in the election campaign, when certain leaders get baptized in front of the hosts' houses, when they take salt and cake and when they drink the brandy they're talking about, they promise that when they come to power, they'll just be the best. I want to ask this opportunity, and to say that it is not correct, that the production of brandy in some households in Serbia is 20, 50 or 100 liters of tradition that has various meanings, symbolic, traditional, religious and various others, and that, as one natural person here says in the law – when selling this alcoholic drink to another person, he should pay for the excise. That means when someone, here's the example. For St. Nicholas, and half Christians celebrate this glory, who doesn't have his own so far should buy 10 liters of brandy from his neighbour, also peasants, that he should pay for that excise. That sucks. There's no financial effect on this. There's one thing that's complicated is that there's absolutely nothing to contribute, except to train strictness in a place that's completely wrong. Boza Djelic was prescribed, I remind you, when he was Minister of Finance, 20% of the tax on the donation. There's a cell phone in Serbia. People know what I'm talking about here, when someone helps someone in some business, and they have the right to give their rewards, but the state has a duty to tax that price on 20%. This looks like it. This never came to life because it's pointless, because it doesn't mean anything. So, I'm just asking for this to be fixed. We ask the Minister to keep his promise. He gave it to our MP group when we talked about this law. I think that makes a lot of sense. This isn't about people who make alcoholic beverages because they like, but most often because they have to. Otherwise, they'd have to let the fruit fall to the ground and fall or give it to someone, and most often there's no one to take over. So it's about something that can't give any financial effect, which can piss off, which can make life more complicated for those who need to control this, and none of it will benefit, and they'll all have damage. Therefore, we ask the Minister to keep the word, because the Minister's word is not denied, it should not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10169	Anyone else want a word? Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10170	It's for your science. At my place in Bajchetin they say, "Who are you with?" Well, now you see who you've been dealing with. If the Ministry of Finance wants to exorcise strictness, why don't you close these rafts; 99% of the rafts are run by criminals. And you go into the bakeries and if someone bought a muffin and didn't get an account from a fiscal register – 15 days closed bakery. Now, even to the peasants to charge the excise on the brandy they bake. On the one hand, you promise us quick entry into the EU (vote – 20 years from now) and there is no roasting of brandy. I can throw it there after that fine of mine, because you'll come by order of the EU to forbid me to bake brandy. I don't meet the conditions. And as long as we don't join the EU, what do you want with that income, we'll get in quickly, what do you want with that income, just to piss off the peasants. What's 20 years? In the life of a country, 20 years is nothing. So, to promise the peasants -- you won't pay the excise on the brandy you bake, because this government won't have time to implement it much longer. I could believe it all, but if you were to make a huge part of the electoral body this way bitter, I couldn't believe it, because it's incomprehensible to me. Would you like to start both cheese and cream? What else a peasant, a poor man, can produce without putting his paw on it. Do you need income, give it to the prostitutes of the fiscal register. Let's buy some homework, they'll always bring you bills. If you want to help, if you have already called a tender for 200 furgons, to buy the Serbian government, in fact Telekom, which you have prescribed the condition that the flag – trucks cannot participate and has the appropriate furgon, if you mean this country. What'd you turn off the only domestic producer? Two hundred, that's not small, that's their three-month production. That's how you think about the state, and no, you heard who burns all the brandy, let's get a quickie. I'm personally interested here, to tell you the truth. Someone will dare step on the muddy path to get to Bicetta to find me some brandy. It's just, I don't sell it, I drink brandy with my friends. Which you didn't bring in and wherever you find who turned the cup, to see if it had an excise stamp. Well, really, anything that's subject to excise duty must have an excise stamp. [[Laughter]] The peasant must buy excise stamps. It's nice to see how big his orchard is, his evaluations, you know, storks, so many excise stamps he's got to buy. It must stick to both the glass and the bottle. When he comes with a canteen to call for the wedding, there's got to be an excise stamp on the canteen. Otherwise, he can't marry his son. Did you pay your excise on the canteen? I didn't. You can't marry your son, the finance minister said. Well, you here lead the state to absurdity, bring chaos to the state. Do you know how much money it takes to raise an orchard, how much time and effort. How many times this orchard, if you want it to give birth, has to be treated. Do you know that domestic species are in extinction, that we've been emigrated by foreign varieties, of which there's little use, but they're giving birth every year. Do you people who write these laws ever go to the village? Do you know how peasants live? Do you know that there aren't enough men left to knock down that orchard when it comes to giving birth? Rodilo didn't give birth, he can't collect his phone. Ambassador Baralic was talking about his cell phone. Where else to collect the cell phone. People who used to burn 400 acres of brandy, now they can't even get past the noise. Because you're in the middle of four blocks, changing asphalt every two years, fixing facades, and there's your voters. And the village, which has 20 or 30 living souls, no one goes into it anymore. Well, they want to get financials, charge excise on roasted brandy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10171	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10172	Through this amendment to Article 9, where you are introducing a new Article 12a, you are practically introducing a 9 dinar excise duty per litre of beer. We asked the amendment to make it 6 dinars, with every increase in the producer's price of beer pulling and a proportional increase in excise duty, and we tried to draw your attention that excise products producers couldn't be in a different position. Cigarette manufacturers are protected, and beer, wine and other products are practically scared, because you change business conditions from day to day and everything that is characteristic of them. I just want to read you some data when it comes to beer. From 1 April 2001 to 23 October this year, the retail price structure changed, so the excise duty took place at 15.9% in 2001 and now at 19.2. If we take and compare with the producer price, which is from 27.8% now the participation has jumped to 34.9%, and if we compare from 1 April 2001 to today, the excise and tax ratio to the producer price, it's from 53.3% today to 62%. Today when this excise is adopted, it will be even more. I must tell you, in 2003, brewers did not settle their obligations based on excise duties to the state. I'll list just some, say, Panchevo 6 million, Valjevo 52, and nearly 53, Zrenjanin 38, Jagodin 243 million, Becej 127, Vršac 119, based solely on excise taxes. The brilliant government, I must tell you, in April of this year, has made a decision to postpone and pay part of the commitments made, and it refers to excises, in Official Messenger number 14/2004, so, let's say, Belgrade's beer industry, Jagodinska and Vršačka, has written off the state 50%, and we don't order these statistics, because we should be different from those academics used by Bogoljub Karic. Two are basic problems. Nine dinars of excise duty is a slightly higher amount than is now being paid, and that's about 60 pairs, but that excise is high and it burdens production. It all comes down to the cost of the producer, because beer production has a very envious competition on our market. A good part of our brewery was privatized in the first, second round, and some of them, of course, were bought from strangers. Now, the stranger who makes beer in our brewery has a worse position than that stranger who makes cigarettes because they've been protected for five years. There's some dynamics about how excises change, and here they don't. How about now we don't suggest that beer is not treated as an excise product, we ask to reduce the amount of excise duty from your proposed nine to six dinars, and depending on the change in the producer's price and in this respect and increase the amount of excise duty, and thus enable those who don't pay excise taxes to pay excise taxes. Those who pay neatly to be a little less relaxed, because they work under unequal conditions. You have a brewery that doesn't pay for excises and a brewery that pays for it. Third, and most importantly, to show them that this production is also being taken care of in this country and that we are dissatisfied with the protection status given to cigarette manufacturers. They've been protected for five years. That the Democrats promised, let them grow, what first came about, amoebe or the Democratic Party, and who empowered them to give someone that benefit. Who made the deal, I guess somebody's gonna discuss it sometime, and the Canet question, and the question of this, over here, Smile's successor, etc. If you protected cigarettes, why didn't you protect other excise products? Why the excise products producers within the production of the same product are different. There's evidence of that difference at the brewery. Why do some people write off, and some people have to pay. Who authorized the state to write off? Who authorized it? For what? Because of the excessive amount of excise duties. I didn't purposely read the data on the amounts of excises, producers and retail prices in our... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... The environment. I'm done. With this excise policy, you banned our producers from exporting here because they lost any economic motive. When you're talking about speeding up production, snap out of it, snap out of it, think about it, look at some of that data and see if that's the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10173	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. Since the Government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we're close to 1400 hours, I'm setting a break of an hour. Resume work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Please check the quorum before continuing. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I understand we have enough MPs to work with. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10175	Article 13. The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act provides for the introduction of a new chapter, which is a delayed accounting and excise payment regime, this refers to excise warehouses. These are two new members of 20a and 20b. We are asking by amendment that in the new Article 20b in the fifth sentence, "Minister in charge of Finance Affairs" be replaced by the word "Government". For what? Paragraph 5 states that the conditions and procedures for obtaining and withdrawing an excise licence, the manner and control of the dispatch and supply of the product to the excise warehouse and keeping records in the excise warehouse are prescribed by the Minister responsible for the financing operations. Whenever there's something about terms, ways, procedures, it can't be the minister's jurisdiction. Simply, he cannot pass a general act, a sublegal act that would settle these issues. So, the condition, the way and the procedure, if regulated by a sublegal act, can only be an act of authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This just shows that whoever wrote the text of the amendments and the addition of this law was not in the light of the provisions of the existing, possibly future Law on Government. It is also known in this hierarchy of general acts, and especially in sublegal acts, who can do what they can. You cannot regulate these questions with some regulation and instruction which are conditions, way and procedure. This recording, which is mentioned here, is possible by means of a sublegal act in the power of the minister, but the conditions and procedure for obtaining and withdrawing a permit must be governed by the Government, and probably by a regulation, with a similar set of the following – the Regulation on terms and procedure for obtaining and withdrawing an excise licence. It is, therefore, a lack that is affecting the legality, or constitutionality of this provision. You probably had to make some consultations with the Legislative Secretariat and that it points to this problem. You cannot, in one law, prescribe with one member the power of the minister and define it so broadly, in terms of authority, that the minister assumes what by definition belongs to the Government. Keep in mind what I said when you vote on this amendment. It is not about whether anyone has sympathy or antipathy towards the finance minister, but rather about what this solution is about, out of constitutional and legal positions and regimes in the Republic of Serbia. This amendment, unless the government accepts it, and I'm surprised it didn't accept it, because this is all about constitutionality and legality, MPs should accept it, because we as a legislative body have to take care of and protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, most of all we have to protect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10176	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ). Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic. Since the Government and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Fiscal Cases (specificities) You have received a bill prepared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Živodarka Dacin and Bosko Ristic, as well as a notice from MP Živodarka Dacin to withdraw amendments she submitted to Articles 2, 17, 18, 39, 43 and 45. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft fiscal register law has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10177	To be clear, I am not defending the amendment of whoever submitted this amendment, but I must point to a problem that exists and is likely to burden us. I'm not going to go into any other shortcomings in this proposal of the fiscal register law and the specific monopoly that was made with this very idea to give this concept of the law. The amendment to Article 3 raises one matter of principle. Is it subject to the obligations of security and management through that register of cash registers with a fiscal memory of anyone who is a taxpayer of value added tax or that obligation to provide so-called security? fiscal cash registers relate to all participants in the transport of goods and services. If the obligation to ensure and conduct operations through this cash register applies only to value added tax holders, then that principle should be implemented until the end of the term to be implemented through all the provisions of this law. If it concerns all participants in the transport of goods and services, then it requires a second solution. In Article 3, you are using analogy, and it is wrong if used, to try to transfer what is the spirit of the law of value added tax and to transfer it to the Law on fiscal cash registers. You've released the obligation to free and run a business through a fiscal register of lawyers, health workers, taxi drivers, car drivers. According to that logic, things need to be free from the obligation to run security and work through the fiscal register and all those who have been de facto taxed. In this sense, you also have the pressure of one group of imposed traffic users, those who have lost their jobs due to sanctions and other things and become traders at those open malls. They state a quality argument, not only meteorologically, but also another which suggests that this is a burden for them, and I am absolutely sure that this traffic can be done in another way. One of these ways is what you have suggested, which is that when customs duties on goods, if they provide it from abroad, salaries and taxes, if it is provided by a domestic supplier, that a value added tax should be paid to that supplier. These are some of the possible solutions. There are other solutions, but I'm afraid that by creating these obligations they don't impose on these people something that they can't meet, and that you forgot one thing, that a good part of them pays a flat tax and that they pay big taxes to the tenants of that area in the malls, markets, and that's local self-government. It's a problem, imposed, by the willlessness of anyone from here, but by the objective state and circumstances in which we lived. I think it takes, to begin with, one flexibility, if this is the exact information that 120-130,000 people thus provide their existence and that several other family members thus provide existence. I'm afraid with this firm view of security, you're not causing a bigger problem, and I wouldn't know to give them an answer when they ask me why lawyers don't have a fiscal register. I can prove to you that a good part of a lawyer has several times more traffic than those people who hold these gigs or health care professionals who provide services. Not to compare to any other regulations, it's not good to make any comparison. As for the other provisions of the fiscal register law, time will show, I don't wish I was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10178	Thank you, Mr. Krasic. I'm sorry if it's misunderstood, but I've reminded myself of collegiation and I always look at the part where the promoter sits, so I've reminded myself of collegiation, to look at it quickly everywhere. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10179	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I am sorry that Minister Dinkic is not with us this afternoon, because I am almost sure there is no reason not to accept an amendment relating to Article 12 that is technical, just as the technical law is. So I would ask you to listen carefully and to see that there is no violation of the meaning of this law. Members of the SPS of any proposed law that enters the assembly procedure, including those on hold, are well-analyzed. In addition to seeing how applicable it is, whether it is for the benefit of citizens or not, in this priced legislator, we are almost always consulting a party that is directly interested in correct implementation of this law. I must say, to the truth of the will, that at the very beginning, precisely with people whose knowledge and expertise I am holding, in consultation I made these amendments, and when I got the government's opinion, we came to the conclusion that certain government opinions could be accepted and therefore withdrew six of the most proposed eight amendments. To be honest, I didn't get an opinion on the amendment to Article 12 of the Government, and I was almost certain that the government had accepted this amendment, and since there was no opinion, the resolution committee refused. I'd ask you to listen carefully and see what this is all about. Article 12 is, in fact, a provision that refers to the fact that in case there is a malfunction in the fiscal register, to theft, and so on, what do people who use fiscal cash registers do? The amendment requires that after the word "fiscal account" they add the words "confirmed by the tax administration" and in the same position after the word "infringement of the fiscal register" to add the words "outage of electricity (with the confirmation of the power distributor about the length of interruptions)." I'd like to explain this. Perhaps in Belgrade, in a circle of two, there are no problems like this, but I come from one city in northern Banat, Kickinda, where there has always been, and even today, there are planned power outages. So it almost doesn't take a month to get at least two weekends off, probably because of some remont, which can last four, six and eight hours. This is published in all local means of public information, so that people in their homes and in their jobs can organize themselves. I understand that Saturdays, and more and more Sundays work many shops and I understand that if there's no electricity in the hair salon, even the fiscal cashier can work, it's also the kind of service that nothing can be done without electricity. What are we going to do with pharmacies, which are also used by fiscal registers, stores that buy basic life supplies like bread and milk. How do we regulate that? In order to really eliminate the potential possibility of machination, because you probably realized that anyone with a fiscal register could rule out two, three, five minutes, the cobayage had run out of power, to make it even more powerful, we said to bring in a confirmation from the Elektro-distribution, that that day in a certain period of time there was a power outage and that then fiscal accounts were accepted, but, of course, which would be certified previously by the tax administration. I think that in this way we would really explain another possibility when there can be an inability to use the fiscal register, to make it easier for people who have the fiscal cash register and who work with them, but also, I think that we would make it very easy for the tax administration workers. I hope that you will have an understanding of this amendment and that in the day of voting you will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10180	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10181	Another amendment of those I didn't withdraw, and I'll tell you why. Apparently, government representatives in a bunch of amendments that all parliamentary groups have submitted to this assembly may not have fully understood and read the amendment, so the explanation I received absolutely does not refer to the proposed amendment. For clarifications, this is about, believe me, respect for Minister Dinkic, I just thought you'd be there to accept the previous amendment, but I'm counting on you to accept why I didn't withdraw this amendment, because the explanation sent by the government doesn't really refer to the text of the amendment itself. The amendment reads in Article 34, paragraph 9, after the word "invested in the daily report" as saying "or for a specific day in the book no daily report is recorded". It is that the measures provided for here are for the ban on carrying out operations up to 60 days, which is one strict ban, but the obligor recorded all his traffic through the fiscal register, and yet he has an obligation to enter it into the daily report book. In case he for any reason forgot to enter into the daily report book, and the next day the taxpayers of the tax administration come to the scene, of course it can be determined which is the traffic from the fiscal register from the fiscal report and the accounts made per type of goods, by the tax order and everything else. So, only if he didn't pass it on to the daily report book, he can be restricted to a work ban for 60 days. So, we absolutely know that technically, and this is also in the explanation of the government's non-acceptation given that the technical fiscal register cannot be typed from the previous day on in certain types of services. That was not the amendment, and the government gave the answer, but precisely for that parallel book that's being run along with the report from the fiscal register. I would really ask you to accept this amendment, because the argument given by the Government did not refer to the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10182	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10183	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the introduction of fiscal cash registers in Serbia would make sense if a single information system was established and a single database would be formed at the moment of fiscal cash register fiscalisation and that the competent state authority could at any time review the turnover of all those in whom the fiscal cash registers were installed. As the system is now configured, the control inspector can only determine whether the current stock is in one sales place, whether it fits the traffic situation, not to mention some other details, because the other day we talked about it. It is not regrettable, we suggested that when fiscal cash registers were introduced, the unification of fiscal cash registers in Serbia was carried out, nor was the unification of software serving fiscal cash registers implemented. Instead of taking advantage of the opportunity and making the purchase of these devices in a unique tender, to provide appropriate software that can be controlled and improved in a certain way in accordance with the practice that is being realized, we today have a colourful. We have machines, so fiscal cash registers, and below every technical minimum, they often break down, and those who delivered them are unable to provide quality service. Of course, that's the risk of those who got it. That's why there's this problem. So, with the power outages and other problems that arise, above all, in small buildings, in independent trades, in trades, in some other places where there is no big traffic, it is the need to record traffic in the manner prescribed by the law. Dear colleague Živodarka Dacin has submitted two amendments that are from a specific situation, she has tried to explain why it would be important for these amendments to be accepted, and I'm just trying to say that everything needs to be done in the next period to regulate this area differently, to get rid of it more fully, to make it clearer for people who need to implement this and for those who control it to do it more effectively. If this doesn't happen, we're going to have a glass, we're going to have slight leaks, we're going to have one of the colors that doesn't provide for the efficient functioning of the system, and we're going to have the possibility of some of the suppliers of the fiscal devices getting easy profits without providing the elemental conditions for those who bought this equipment. This problem and many others will be solved in the next period, because practice will deny appropriate legal solutions. I think it makes sense to accept both the previous and this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10184	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Peace of the Republic of Serbia Obligation against the National Bank of Serbia (Serbs) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law on the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does the proposal's representative, Master Mladjan Dinkic, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on Complementary Social Security as you know, it has been withdrawn from the agenda. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Tax Tax Act on the premium of non-life insurance you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Veroljub Arsic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the proposal for a tax on non-life insurance premiums has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10185	The government adopted one amendment, but did not adopt another. Then she better not have adopted the first one. That's how it turns out. Since there is no traffic tax since January 1st, there is no tax rate of 20% on insurance premiums. In order to fill that hole with law, this law is passed which taxes the premium on non-life insurance. Article 6 regulates which non-life insurance premiums are not paid for this tax. We also asked for this to be extended to insurance of export credits, to help export-oriented businesses, to ensure the credit of citizens paid in wars and to insurance of agricultural loans, as it was left out. The government has accepted this amendment. So when these loans are secured, you don't pay taxes. The government had to accept the previous amendment, which requires that the insurance premium tax is not 5% but 8%. The insurance undertaking is an insurance company. It's not clear to us, if the 20% tax is abolished, the basics are almost unchanged. I can only remind you of what the basis is, to direct you to an explanation where the government says well - according to the provisions of the Transport Tax Act, the tax on transport services is paid at a rate of 20% on the insurance and reinsurance services of the person, and the tax base makes the gross insurance premium reduced by the amount of technical premium and contributions to prevention. It is then said that we have passed this value added tax law and now, among other things, tax exemption is prescribed, without the right to deduct the previous insurance and reinsurance tax, including accompanying services, and it is recognised that since 1 January, there remains one part that has not been taxed. We're asking that this rate be not 18%, like that higher regular rate in value added tax, not this one invented by 5%, but a tax rate of 8%, because what you're now introducing is a replacement that needs to fill a hole, because this isn't covered by value added tax. In this way, the state loses nothing, but even improves its position, more harvests, and for the legal system it is better when there are several uniform tax rates 8, 18, possibly 10 or 14 when it comes to the income tax of citizens. Now we're introducing a new rate of 5%. Why is it now, where funds are found to exist, going at a lower rate? Is there perhaps some connection between these insurance companies and some of the government, from some of the parties that are in power? We didn't get the right answer why it's better than 5 and not 8, and it's quite evident that it's a very stable tax source, where it's always about money, where money is not a problem. Now why is someone introducing a third rate of 5%? That's why I think these two amendments make up one whole. What is increasing is not about those housing loans, agricultural loans, export credits, loans to citizens who pay for the wars. This predicts tax exemption, and even spreads through our amendment, and should therefore be covered by a higher tax rate where funds exist. I suggest that this amendment be adopted, because then this makes some sense, and if it doesn't, then this is halfway done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10186	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Since the proposer and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee sees the amendment as legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPORT OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (Common Principled Search with the 18th Point) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on the draft laws proposed by MP Miloljub Albianic, and before opening a joint principle search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MPs of the Social Democratic Party, after five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, and I inform you that representatives are authorised on these points for the DS-Gran Knezevic parliamentary group and for the parliamentary group SPS - Jovan Todorovic. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and the Bill on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. Does Master Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10187	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two laws before us to regulate the funding of local self-government in 2005: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and the draft law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Serbian budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. We have in mind that since 1 January, the Transport Tax Act has ceased to apply. Instead, the Value Added Tax Act shall enter into force. Thus, one source of funding for local self-government, which is a sales tax, must be replaced by some other sources of funds. As a result, we propose that the participation of local self-governments and cities in profit tax be increased from the current 30% to 40%, and that those local self-governments that are not enough to compensate for the loss due to the elimination of sales taxes benefit from one part of the transfer funds provided for by the 2005 Budget Act, amounting to 13.8 billion dinars, and thus enable the financing of a part of the cost of local self-government work through direct transfers from the budget. Why is the funding changing? There is a big difference between the collection of sales taxes and value added tax. Unlike the sales tax that is collected at the last stage of the sale of goods and services, and exactly can be located where sales tax is charged, this is not the case with value added tax, because it is calculated at each stage of goods and services traffic. In other words, while the sales tax was valid, if the goods were sold in Nis, then one part of that tax could be precisely located and assigned to the city of Nis. If it sold in Kragujevac, we could also know exactly how much Kragujevac belongs. The value added tax is the next problem, as it is calculated on all raw materials that participate in the production of a finished product. If it's an import product, it's accounted for at the border. It may be 50 cities included in this calculation, but it cannot be located exactly where some specific local self-government contributes to the collection of this revenue. This is also practice in other countries, and therefore the total value added tax enters the central budget, and then through transfer funds is provided by local self-government. However, compared to the 2004 plan, it is good that most of the local self-government in Serbia managed to achieve greater revenues this year than planned. The planned revenues for 2004 amounted to 75.8 billion dinars. According to our estimates, at least 81.4 billion will be achieved by the end of 2004, and there is still a month until the end of this financial year. When we planned budget transfers and the amount of funds that should belong to local self-government, we began to assume that these revenues should be 16.7% higher next year compared to the 2004 plan. So one part of the funds of local self-government will come from profit taxes, and the other part from these transfers. As regards the transfers themselves, the criteria for the distribution of transfers remained unchanged in relation to the existing Law on Local Self-Government and contained in the solutions so far. So we used exactly the same criteria as before. In preparation for this law, I had a conversation with representatives of all local self-government in Serbia. That was about ten days ago in this same room. Together, we have concluded that some criteria need to be changed. In fact, these current criteria lack the respect of the number of refugees that exist in some cities. It is not clear enough how many administrations should actually have local self-government. Some objective criteria need to be limited by the number of people who are employed by local self-government, so that some who are saving and have a smaller administration would not be punished according to this present state, and those who are constantly increasing the number of employees actually only increase the base and then account for income growth relative to the increased base in an irrational way. We had a debate, which ended maybe an hour ago, and on the Finance Committee. We agreed to change the criteria for funding local self-government by 31 March at the latest, that if we need to even amend this law that we will now adopt in the National Assembly and in practice see how the value added tax works, when we see if any municipalities have any problems in financing, then intervene. Under this bill, only two cities in Serbia will achieve zero transfer growth compared to this year; this is the city of Belgrade and the town of Novi Sad, and I will say why. All other municipalities and cities will have next year's growth that will vary depending on these criteria. In fact, those cities that are developed will be far more achieved based on these 40% salary taxes, and those less developed need more to be transferred based on these transfers. The intensity should be exactly like that – developed should be financed primarily by its, growing, local incomes and we will be in the mood to give as much local income to local self-governments as possible. This is the case today with some cities, such as Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, and about 85% of the current revenues come from other sources, beyond these transfers. However, in some other undeveloped municipalities, the situation is completely reversed. Thus, Bosilegrad 55% of its income comes from the budget transfer. In most municipalities, incomes are far higher this year than those planned. I'll give you a few examples. More revenues were made in Belgrade in the first 11 months compared to the entire 2004 plan. The index is 101.6. Thus, the overall budget plan has been fully achieved and will obviously be exceeded. The original revenues of the city of Belgrade, such as local taxes, municipal taxes, residence fees, company fees, environmental fees, construction arrangements, etc. rents, in the first 11 months of this year, amounted to 13 billion 280 million. That's what they're called. The original revenues of the city of Belgrade. You know that the property tax, inheritance tax, income tax from independent activities also belongs to local self-government, and all of Belgrade has achieved 34.3 billion dinars of total income in the first 11 months of 2004. As for other cities, believe it or not, Novi Sad has the same percentage, has also shifted the plan for this year and has a 101.6 index for the first 11 months. Nis is a recordr with 108,2 which means they've moved the plan far away, but that's, I must say, because of the severance payments in the tobacco industry of Nis, on which you're counting interest. The only city under the plan is Kragujevac. Kragujevac had 89.9% in the first 11 months compared to the plan. That is why the finance ministry on behalf of the government accepted on the Committee on the Economy of Amendments submitted by a group of MPs to allocate 200m more funds to Kragujevac for next year, at the heart of Belgrade's reduction. It's an amendment that we accepted on the Finance Committee and it's the only amendment the government has accepted. As for the other self-government, we shared with the members of the Finance Committee material based on which we calculated the participations, and all other local self-governments have growth in the following year. I'll give you some more information. It can be said that some, perhaps small steps have been taken over the last four years to decentralisation the work of local self-government. You can tell from the following data. In 2005, total revenues from local self-government will be 6.6 times higher than they were in 2000. On the other hand, transfers from the budget to local self-government will be 7.3 times higher next year than in 2000, which means that transfers and transfers of money from the central bank to the municipality grew faster than the revenues of local self-government itself, showing a degree of decentralisation. I can agree with all who are supporters, and I belong to them, that this growth should be faster, but the fact is that local elections were held in September of the month and that some local self-governments were formed only 10 days ago. We couldn't work to change the criteria that have been in force for many years and that are clearly not completely objective, because in the meantime the situation on the ground was changing and the criteria remained exactly the same. So we also accepted the advice of the DSS MPs to consider and to change the final criteria by 31 March, because I have now been informed that many times, according to those who have a longer internship in the Assembly, have discussed changing these criteria and have never changed. Here, I am making a promise to the National Assembly that now with the new presidents of local self-government we will do it by 31 March, when we see how this system works in practice, because the newspaper for all of us is the introduction of VAT, that is, when we reach objective criteria. Until then, what is quite certain, large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis already have significant incomes from property taxes, from self-employed taxes, from taxis and other original incomes. Indeed, the projected zero growth in them and Belgrade's 200 million dinars will not in any way compromise Kragujevac's position; on the contrary, we expect, as Belgrade's revenues this year are, say, 41% higher than in 2003, that this trend will continue to develop these large cities and beyond. On the other hand, since the criteria are old and I'm not the one who's going to defend them and we want to change them, if they really do happen, which I don't believe a smaller municipality is in trouble next year, I want to point out that we have a reserve fund and a budget fund of 200 million dinars for local self-governments, from revenues that will come from gambling. So, we're talking about small municipalities, if they miss a million, two, three, four, five next year, it'll certainly be able to compensate from this budget fund. The budget fund is also intended for the participation of certain municipalities in the European Agency for Reconstruction programmes, as many municipalities have entered these programmes and are planned to be part of these 200 million programmes, so that additional funds can be engaged in local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to conclude. Maybe it'll be done to someone when they look at the transfers, and you'll all say they're smaller than last year. That's right, nominally. If you look at the column of salary tax, it will increase the participation of all municipalities from 30% to 40% in salary tax, and it will feel more developed and less developed – less. That's why the less developed will get more growth in transfers. It's the logic of this law. I hope he gets the support of this assembly, because, in fact, the adoption of these laws creates assumptions for the adoption of the 2005 budget of local self-government. Finally, I repeat, we expect greater revenues from local self-government than those given as the basis for calculating these data based on which the law was made. The law was based on assumptions of income in the first five months. Already the latest data for the first 11 months that we received a few days ago, after handing over this law to the congregation procedure, say that there are significantly better revenues in some self - administrations, and in those where the achievement is weaker, it has been ironed through larger transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10188	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteur, the Finance Committee, Radojko Obradovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the budget, the most important law to be passed every year in the Serbian Parliament is before us. It's a law based on which local self-government works. Of course, this law is different from any previous law, for the simple reason that it changes significantly how the tax system works. The value added tax law is introduced. As part of the Finance Committee, we have repeatedly analyzed the system that the minister was talking about this time. We've concluded that there are numerous anomalies. It's necessary to change. It is necessary to amend the Law on Local Self-Government and other laws defining public income and expenditure. Just look at the information we got from the finance ministry. The original revenues of our municipalities and cities amount to 7% in Alibunar, 7% in the White Palanca, 5% in Vlasotanc. If 95% of the income is defined each year by the central government, there can hardly be stories of serious planning at the level of local self-government. If you depend every year on the goodwill of the Republic government, the congregation majority and the Ministry of Finance, then you can hardly plan a few years ahead of all those large infrastructure projects that are necessary in all our municipalities. This is obviously the direction in which the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Public Revenue must be amended. A much higher amount of original income must be provided to local self-government and must allow it to plan several years ahead of all the major projects that are in its jurisdiction. Everything else will require that all these criteria, which cannot be perfect, be discussed over and over again in this congregation each year. The imperfection of these criteria also shows the rise in the budget of local self-government. On the Finance Committee, we have not been able to figure out why the Žitoradje budget is increasing 46% this year compared to the previous year. Many cities, although nothing important has changed in the previous year, have increased budgets by more than 20%. This is all that is necessary to change in order to introduce a fundamental principle for such an important law; in addition to the principle of solidarity, which must exist because our municipalities are unequally developed, there must be both the principle of justice and the principle of equality. These resources under these criteria that exist must be fairly allocated to all our municipalities and to all our cities. Otherwise, every municipality... And we saw a large number of amendments that the MPs were teaching, that they were taken from an item of one city and added to another city. This is not realistic, nor is it based on some real indicators that are measurable and that have to be measurable. What we need to see at this point is that in the mass of funds for local self-government growth is foreseen for this year – with all the restrictions that are unknown at the moment, which is what the application of the Value Added Tax Act will look like – real and is about 8.5%. If inflation is considered, then at least according to this projection that we have at this point, the rise in the budget of local self-government, given all other parameters, will be less than it was this year. That could leave a mark on the functioning of local self-government. On the Finance Committee, we have come to the conclusion that the Committee and the Ministry of Finance must work intensively for the coming months to determine the real criteria and that they must consider all those illogicalities that we have seen in this law. As the minister here said in the debate, by March 31st, we expect to show up with a real analysis, and wherever we see there's an irregularity to remove it, so that local self-government works properly. There are several directions in which it is possible to operate. One is to increase the participation of municipalities and cities in profit tax, that instead of this 40% it may be 45 or 50%, which will significantly reduce some of the transfer funds. This will certainly affect, that ministers, then the amount of transfer funds will be significantly lower; instead of those 13.8 billion this year, it will be several billion, which will then allow the Republic government to intervene with additional funds in all municipalities that have developed significantly less than the republican average, thus trying to level the unbalanced development that exists in Serbia. One of the key problems Serbia has at the moment is unbalanced regional development. It is enough to take into account the level of average salaries in Serbia and everything will be clear. That range goes to 1:10. This law is not only an administrative law, but also a basic instrument for the conduct of the Republic government's policies towards local self-government. In this way, it will allow additional funds to accelerate the development of individual regions and reduce this unbalanced regional development in Serbia. These are all things we need to talk about, and we have committed to talking about this law and all the irregularities we have seen in this assembly in the next month or two and again in front of you by 31 March at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-09-0.u10190	Does legislator Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Because of the weather, you're right, it would be short. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. According to Article 81(4), because of the importance of these laws, we continue to work on Friday. So tomorrow at 10.00.
