ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 113 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have reported the absence of MPs: Marko Djurisic, Natasa Micic, Veroljub Stevanović, Stanisa Stevanovic, Radoslav Jovic, Sanja Cekovic and Aleksandar Lazarevic. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSALS OF THE SANITARY SURVEILLANCE AND PROTECTION OF THE PURPOSE FROM THE IMPLEMENTAL AFFAIRS (the follow-up of the joint principled search) The word has a National MP, Dr. Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister commended the laws in the latest presentation, above all the proposal for the Sanitary Control Act, and showed some new aspects: strengthened measures of supervision of the hygiene of facilities subject to sanitary supervision; special preventive supervision of buildings to which those planning health work should be moved; as well as supervision of the production of foods or drinking water; precisely prescribed powers of the sanitary inspector, where the criminal policy is strengthened; a precise standard on the way in which the risk of infectious diseases is to occur which are not identified by a list or infectious diseases of unknown etiology. Under the new bill, the minister may order a person who has been in contact with an infectious disease to prohibit leaving the house, i.e. a quarantine under home conditions, and for people who are healthy and who come from countries where epidemiological disease can be determined. The bill also regulated the issue of systemic immunisation. So there are parts in the draft law on sanitary supervision that are positive, but since MPs are positions, and MPs of the opposition who support the government have talked about the positive connotations of this law, I don't think we should all have the same opinion. And when some MPs say that as experts in this area that we all support the same thesis, I'm sure they're wrong; because these laws on litigation and enforcement were written by graduate lawyers and participated in the debate; and ultimately, many doctors of medical science have different approaches in the treatment of individual patients, so there's no reason for us to support certain things that we're sure are not adequate. The name of the Sanitary Control Act itself is not appropriate, because it is essential to determine the place, roles and contents of the work of the sanitary inspection, primarily because the Law on Sanitary Inspection and this concept of sanitary supervision is much broader and includes other entities, jobs and activities that do not belong to the authorities of the state administration by their nature. For example, the jobs of preventive medical care performed by healthcare institutions, medical professions, etc. The text of the draft law constitutes a cosmetic process of the existing Law on Control and does not contribute to the approximation and harmonisation of our positive legislation with common legislation of the European Union. In any event, it is necessary to provide a general definition of sanitary supervision, that sanitary surveillance is an inspection of the enforcement of laws and other regulations, which includes supervision of persons and activities, construction facilities, rooms and spaces, facilities and devices that can in any way affect human health. The essence of this law should be that anything that is harmful to health should be subjected to sanitary supervision. The law restricts sanitary supervision and creates the possibility that these jobs, which essentially and organically belong to the health sector, are being taken over by various stakeholders and various sectors that are not competent to assess the impact on human health. There is a fragmented, partial organization of all inspection services by the ministries. It has proved to be highly inefficient and counterproductive primarily by reforming these services, so a sanitary inspection may be part of an authority or organisation in charge of inspection supervision and we must make sure that we leave that possibility. Since we are constantly talking about decentralisation, it is necessary to open the possibility of trusting certain businesses, primarily local self-government entities, or cities and municipalities. The specific provision should regulate the choice and appointment of sanitary inspectors, as they are persons with special powers in the general administrative procedure, i.e. persons who are in charge of administrative proceedings, who make decisions and who can move and participate in administrative disputes. Up until now, the entire areas that are included in preventive medical protection have been easily left to incompetent and unprofessional bodies, so that there is currently chaos that negatively affects the health of the population and can only cause major consequences. As a result, some new areas should be introduced: meeting sanitary and hygiene conditions in the process of issuing a building permit, allowing for the location during construction and issuing of a useful permit for sanitary facilities; the area of production and transport of poison and protection against the harmful fact of poison; the area of protection of the population from the source of ionising and non-ionising radiation, i.e. the implementation of the protection measures of persons professionally exposed to the harmful functioning of ionic and non-ionising air. A new area of production and transport of medicinal products, medical and homeopathic products should be introduced, with an existing organisation of a drug inspection within the Agency, as there will be no minimum needs and requirements existing on the ground. It is necessary to introduce an area of impact on health, harmfulness and disposition in the environment primarily of wastewater and solid waste; protection of the population from the harmful functioning of tobacco and tobacco; exhumation and transfer of dead persons carried out in the territory of the Republic and across national borders. Those areas should be carefully developed and specified by the authorities of the sanitary inspectors. The work of sanitary inspectors of different professions was not precisely set up, but it was left to the minister to solve by systematization, which is certainly not the best solution, which is already the practice. It is necessary to define precisely the tasks of sanitary inspection of republican importance, the tasks of regional importance that are entrusted, the tasks of the city, or local importance. Following the definition of this division, the conditions for necessary personnel should also be laid down; the law and normative should be laid down according to the number of inhabitants, as well as with regard to the resolution of the territory, the number of sanitary inspectors needed to cover all areas of sanitary supervision in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of the Law on the Ministrys of Single Border Sanitary and Veterinary Control, which was institutionalised under the same name federal authority, broke down into three completely new organisational works, one of which belonged to the Ministry of Health, which is sanitary supervision and two of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs – veterinary and phytosanitary supervision. The health ministry has eased its jurisdiction in the area of sanitary surveillance of the transport and transport of toxic substances, although it is a member of 51. The law on the production and transport of these substances is defined and this article reads: "Toxins can only be imported through the border crossing at which inspection supervision is organised. The importer is required to notify the sanitary inspector of the arrival of the poison shipment. Customs authorities may carry out poison customs duties only with the consent of a federal health inspector. "Article 56 of the same law states that the transactions referred to in Article 54(1) of this Law are carried out by a federal inspector, who, in addition to the general conditions, must possess other conditions, which is the sixth or seventh degree of professional training in the field of pharmacies or medicine. Therefore, the inspection supervision of the implementation of the safety measures prescribed by this law, as well as the rules adopted under this law, when importing toxic, infectious, and radioactive matter across borders, is considered to be imports, exports, as well as transit, directly carried out by the Federal Authority of the Administration in charge of health services through its sanitary inspectors. The control of the import of poisons is no longer organised by border sanitary inspectors, who have been doing it successfully and effectively for years, but has been unlawfully given to environmental inspectors, which are not foreseen at border crossings by any regulation. There was a total disorganization because surveillance began by Republic environmental inspectors of various professions - forest engineers, molecular biologists, architecture engineers, biochemists, biologists, zoologists, nature protection engineers, and certainly not people from the profession. pharmaceuticals and medicine, as the law requires. Since environmental inspectors do not stay at border crossings at the borders, there are unnecessary crowds, importers and forwarding houses are loathed by the retention of these dangerous substances that pose a potential danger to both people and their environment. It is right to ask how rational it is to increase the number of inspectors, i.e. border inspection and hire new inspectors. border environmental inspectors, when there are already fully competent, professional and legally authorised bodies for these matters. I remind you that the service of sanitary surveillance at the state border is the oldest border inspection, with a tradition of more than 100 years long, especially in the area of protection of the population from infectious diseases that threaten the entire country, the health regularity of living supplies and objects of general use, as well as other areas of importance for the protection of the health of the population and the protection of the environment when it comes to the transport of poisons and toxic substances across the state border, sources of ionizing radiation, infectious and infectious materials. The reasons for the organisation of an independent health oversight service at the state border within the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Ministry Act, are reflected in the following - sanitary surveillance operations at the state border are in the area of sanitary supervision and preventive health protection of jobs from the highest national interest in international standards. The protection of the population against infectious diseases that threaten the whole country, quarantined as well as other dangerous diseases, and above all I mean infectious, infectious diseases; the protection of the regularity of life supplies and objects of general use imported into, above all, external trade; the control of traffic across the state border of poison and toxic materials, sources of ionising radiation, fruity infectious, infectious materials. First of all, in its decades-long history, the service responsible for this has never been organised at a lower organisational level than the sector, or inspectorate. It's an organ that's part of the Ministry. The integration of this service into the existing sanitary surveillance sector would primarily reduce the operational and capacity of this service, which is specific, given the regional and local competence of the existing sectors, as well as other specific tasks in this area that are completely different from the work of the sanitary surveillance service at the border. The organisation of this service towards border areas, through lower organisational forms, from the department, would also make it difficult to operate this service. Incorporating this service into an already existing sanitary surveillance sector, first of all I mean internal control, would endanger the existing technical and technological and spatial infrastructure of this service, without which this form of sanitary supervision could not function or functionality would be significantly difficult. They would have gone back many years. The sanitary surveillance sector at the state border, as a possible organisational form in relation to the adopted Ministry Act, would allow direct vertical handling of this service on the line of ministers - assistant minister - department chiefs - border inspector. In any case, we need to take advantage of other countries' experience in the environment, in order to make a special organisational continent within the Ministry of Health, the sanitary surveillance sector at the state border or the border inspection sector. As an administrative authority, the Federal Sanitary, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Inspectorate carried out surveillance and control tasks of the transport and transport of toxic materials through its sanitary inspectors at border crossings. Since the adoption of acts by the new state community of inspectorates has ceased to work, there has been a legal gap, above all, in the execution of business under their jurisdiction since they have not taken over in the best and in an adequate manner. In fact, according to the logic of the matter, jurisdiction should be taken over by the Republic's Ministry of Health, because it is business that is based on health care, toxicology as a science of poisons, although they cannot be challenged by multidisciplinaryism, that there are a number of aspects of the very science of poisons, because it is primarily about environmental protection. But we must bear in mind that the World Health Organization is also defining its approach and its programmes to protect against poison poisoning and control. They are part of health protection, both human and environmental. There is also legal regulation in the European Union, as well as in our neighbouring countries, which are in the phase of the conclusion of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, where it is defined that we have a similar principle of organisation and work on poison control. Instead of having such an organised approach, as well as respect for the legal continuity and legal analogy in dealing with these affairs, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia has left these jobs to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, which was neither organisationally nor humanly capable of working effectively and doing these jobs that I was talking about, as well as the future. As a result, there was great discontinuity in doing these jobs, above all in the authorisation for the traffic of poisons across the state border, there was no one to betray them, and so was the Federal Sanitary, Veterinary and Phytosanitary Inspectorate disabled to perform its function, above all in this area. Legal entities and entrepreneurs engaged in the traffic of poison across the state border have been brought into such a situation that they cannot realise the start and contracted jobs, and end-users, i.e. the economy and the population have been unjustly brought into a situation to suffer economic losses, for no good reason. About the production of poison within the country and their internal transport, that is, the lack of control over them because of the inadequate takeover of jurisdiction and the risks resulting from it, I think it's too high and I'm talking. I'd also like to pay attention to genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. Imports of these genetically modified organisms and their products are not regulated by regulations. All over Europe, the use of these products is at the heart of public interest and the subject of heated debates both professional and scientific public. There are very clear and loudly expressed views that genetically modified food is not sufficiently tested, that it may rightly be considered dangerous for humans, and that there are many results abroad, as experiments have been carried out on animals, which indicate and how harmful genetically modified food is. Soybeans. Meat obtained from animals fed by genetically modified food i.e. Soya's shotgun is eaten by our citizens, with all the potentially harmful consequences that are being discussed in public. According to my data, from January 1st 2002 to September 12th 2002, only the company "Transport" Novi Sad imported over 50,000 tonnes of soybeans from the United States and total imports into Serbia's territory amounted to 89,210 tonnes during that period. Soya's shotgun primarily serves as a component for herd food. It is a by-product produced by extraction of oil from soya beans. There are around 40 million tonnes in the world, of which 36 million tonnes are modified soybeans. Enabling such a continuation of continuous imports of soybeans produced from genetically modified soybeans is a kind of nonsensus in the context of the whole problem of using genetically modified food, which is why people in the ministry should take account. Since water is one of the basic elements needed for the life of all beings, the Institute for Health Protection "Dr Milan Jovanovic - Batut" presented data that every other water pipeline in Serbia is risky in a microbiological or physical-chemical view, and each third in both. Microbiologically risky water usually drinks 23% of the population, primarily in the cities where water is controlled, and 20% of the population drinks physical-chemical risk water, while 14% combines both risks. These are official data from the Institute for Health Protection "Dr Milan Jovanovic - Batut". There is no single state strategy to address the issue of water supplying the population to the proper water in sufficient quantity. Due to the absence of such a strategy in chaos, all start from public enterprises that produce and distribute water, through state institutions, through water industry, to institutions that need to control drinking water, as well as the authorities of the sanitary inspection. Instead of carrying out a comprehensive analysis of Serbia's water supply and animating the public, the state followed by the definition of the strategy and the operational planning of the water supply of each area in Serbia, it left the situation to a greater extent. This condition is used by individual stakeholders who are facing promotion of bottled waters of many manufacturers that multiply like mushrooms after the rain. This may not be so bad if, as in the serious countries of our environment, we could properly resolve public water supply, because in these countries bottled water is a question of citizens' choice. We are subject to manipulation by these same citizens, because there is chaos, above all, state institutions in which ignorance, irresponsibility and disorganization reign. I'll give you a few examples. In 2002, a real epidemic broke out in Topoli due to the catastrophic state of public city water. This could have been expected because it was led by Mrs. Alexandra McKay's sanitary inspection. The epidemic erupted, and she, as the first man of the sanitary inspection, did not know that she was organizing her ministry and even less of the other health institutions, so that the epidemic could not be resolved. Instead of resigning as a moral act because of the very appearance of this epidemic, which was present in these territories only in the last century, it becomes an irreplaceable party chamber and in this new government. Since she was in the last government, she's in this new government. However, this epidemic provides a new field for big business, as it begins with the placement of new bottled water products and a number of highly privileged manufacturers who simply worship Mrs. Alexander. There's still a lot of examples. In early 2003, there was an alleged increase in the concentration of phenol in the Sitnica and Ibar rivers from which the Royals were supplied. Mrs. McKay, as the most responsible and only really competent republican official for this problem, has for weeks watched as unprofessional people suggest and implement public water supply. Although the water in the network was correct, which should have been immediately confirmed, rather than harassing citizens with tanks and some alternative sources, Ms. McKay brought the Belgrade City Institute along with the competent royal institution to examine the water in parallel, and then alternative sources, all with the intention of making the water as cloudy as possible. Then they start to appear, in such a deliberately clouded situation, first shyly with a donation from the producers of bottled water, and then the mass sales of the same bottled water begins. As all this dust settles, the producers remain a substantial profit, and Mrs. McKay is a very respected person in the circles of the producers of that water. In Ubb, a longer time period of sanitary inspection keeps the city water under ban, reportedly has an increased concentration of heavy metals. Citizens of this place believe that this is also a deliberate ban for the sale of larger quantities of bottled water. The same was tried in Vranje when Mrs. McKay, in co-operation with the Vranj Hygiene Institute, pressured local self-government, primarily on sanitary inspection, to ban the use of water from the city water supply due to increased manganese in water. That's what the local inspection opposed, afraid that the ban in the summer months, when it happened, would cause some new bowel infection. As it didn't go smoothly, Mrs. McKay hired the Batut Institute who announced that water was neither for drink nor for cooking. Distribution was not prohibited, but in local media, a terrible propaganda was made that water was not used, while local producers of bottled healthy and drinking water were happy to rub their hands. How aggressive the propaganda was to testify and that even the warning was understood that water was neither for drinking nor for swimming. Finally, in early autumn, the "final account" arrived in the form of an outbreak of infectious jaundice, which local sanitary inspection and fear. The rerun of the story from Vranja was tried in Leskovac, but there however local inspectors did not give in under the pressure of Ms. Makaj and the Institute of Batut. This institute is otherwise known as a laboratory that commercially monitors the health soundness of our manufacturers' waters. There have been many objections made to the work and control of Batut. It is already stated that many of these waters do not meet the conditions laid down in our regulations, even if in public waterways the same values are prohibited and allowed in bottled waters. These doubts and expressed attitudes would certainly be addressed by any government and authority that holds to itself and to its image, but that is not the case with us, because for this created chaos, it gives recognition to Mrs. McKay and re-names her to the same function. It is strange that this government did not know about the Belgrade waterway, when the advertised phenomenon of pesticides is "atrazine" in the water and when Mrs. McKay was celebrated with her statement that two milligrams per cubic litre is allowed in the world, and that the regulation is much stricter and the criteria are much higher, so the limit of 0.1 milligrams per cubic litre is thus exulting the professional and the rest of the public, because the cubic litre as a measuring unit does not exist! Obviously, Aleksandra Makaj, the current assistant health minister, who runs the sanitary surveillance sector, is an example of officials in the state administration who are incompetent for the work he does, and the acquired positions are used for personal promotion, as well as the weighting of powerful lobbies in the trade in agricultural products. It does not otherwise possess the elemental knowledge to perform an operational function in the area of the creation and organisation of sanitary supervision in the Republic of Serbia. The current Act on Health Ministry's systematization of jobs has prescribed that a person who specializes in one of the medical branches can be named in this place, with eight years of work in health care affairs. Is it enough to complete a three-month course from the family, i.e. family medicine, for 180 hours, which has nothing to do with specialisation in the field of medicine, which in any case cannot be recognised in the Croatian state, let alone in our legislation. In any case, she spent her working life on the activities of the organization and primary health care, which is also not true because she was a doctor of general practice in Virovitica. Not to mention that the Serbian diaspora also announced that it was falsely represented by the province's health minister in Graz, Austria, so he was not surprised when he learned the truth, which was also a diplomatic scandal that was quickly covered up by powerful protectors, above all in the government and the SDP. Her intricacies and lack of knowledge of the issues of sanitary surveillance have led to many wrong decisions and judgments. One of the most serious mistakes, and the question is that it did not do so on purpose, is its positive opinion and the proposal to leave the sanitary inspection on the territory of the AP Vojvodina completely to the provincial authorities, thus giving up any jurisdiction over this inspection on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This is the only area in which the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have absolutely no jurisdiction in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It also promoted some private arrangements with the names "Food Control Network Reform", primarily with the German NGO GTZ, under very suspicious circumstances, as the project was defined without the involvement of the professional public. In the end, certain laboratories were selected to form a network of food control laboratories. Nine labs have been selected. It was the most funded and maintained by the US multinational company that produced genetically modified food - Monsanto, which has repeatedly paid for travel to the United States. There is established evidence that phantom tenders have been conducted for the purchase of equipment, where companies with the most favourable offers have been magically rejected and pre-elected companies with multiple prices accepted. An example is a company called "media" from Zemun that didn't get the job, even though it was the most favourable. Where the difference between a real price and a high price is, it can only be guessed. Even the European Union launched an investigation into missed investment by the European Agency for Reconstruction, which was Alexandera's ideas. When it comes to many epidemics, first of all, zoonoses, such as the epidemics of triquinosis or brucellosis, it prevents the participation of sanitary inspectors, saying it is not competent. The results resulting from such behaviour, primarily the behaviour of a sanitary inspector at her request, are the spread of this disease. I've already said what happened to water supply and the problems that some have managed to bring politics to, above all, the King, Ubbe, Vranj, Leskovac, Topoli. The Topoli even showed that there was a long-term risk, so nothing was done again, and then a hydraulic epidemic of large proportions broke out. Because of the lack of knowledge of the problem, she gave up jurisdiction over the control of toxic substances and the protection against ionising radiation. It did so with an ordinary letter in April 2003, calling only on the new Law on the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, and neglecting a handful of existing federal rules that did not cease to apply even when the SRJ disappeared and when the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was formed, which continues until new laws and new regulations were passed. Apparently, its intentions were to hire new environmental inspectors, and the goal was to get importers illegal, incompetent, and in many cases unnecessary controls. All of this is best explained by the fact that the environmental inspectors I was talking about allowed the car with radioactive waste material to cross the border of the Republic of Macedonia, come to Serbia and stop in Nis, although large radioactivity has been found to exist. The border crossings seem to be the specialty of our assistant health minister. At the border crossing of Subotica, she moved the inspectors out of the dedicated premises built by this country for their needs and moved them into the Subotic Health Protection Office, without any need and no real reason. You know that every sanitary inspector is independent. I've worked for a short time as a Republic sanitary inspector and I know all the powers of a sanitary inspector, what opportunities and what can be done. She knew she couldn't sign the contract, but that's why the contract was signed by the Secretary of Health Dragoljub Morac, of course, at her address. Thus, the rooms in which the state has invested large amounts of money are now empty and will be exposed to time, with accompanying equipment, but they must have profited from it by individuals, who, by obtaining this method of earning one institution, are likely to have some material benefit themselves. Aleksandra Makaj was replaced by the chief of the Saturday border inspection, without any explanation and brought to this place by Dr. Siniš Trajković, who specializes in emergency medicine and, by chance, is the best man with Dr. Nebojsa Brcan, director of the Institute in Subotica. A lot of coincidences when it comes to Mrs. Alexandra McKay. I can't help but think it's a combination of elemental ignorance, spiced with arrogance and a desire for personal promotion. Finally, the proposal for a law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases is much better than the proposed Sanitary Control Act, but it obviously raises several key issues. Why is 70 diseases defined? Why are the diseases not categorized by importance and adapted importance, and why do all 70 listed diseases have to be reported? Why aren't the provisions of the International Health Regulations used in quarantine? That makes the law seem old-fashioned. The proposed law will bring great problems in practical work, primarily because of the large number of diseases declared as diseases of interest to the state. The law does not respect international agreements which, among other things, has ratified our country. In many of its provisions, the law introduces unnecessary administration, i.e. administration. Finally, the law has the intensities to restrict human rights and freedoms, first of all, freedom of movement when it comes to quarantine, and given that the government is democratic, I believe that it was not intended to restrict human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8143	On the grounds of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8144	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 99, which speaks of only being able to speak of the subject on the agenda, and of the Member of the 100th, which is talking about the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I fully respect and bear in mind the fact that all people in public functions should be exposed to criticism and the eye of the public, but I would refer to the tabloids, to the shows of the fun type, where you might be able to bring out all sorts of things you don't even have to prove and not have to stand behind. This is about laws, this is the National Assembly, and I don't think the National Assembly is obliged to listen to a half an hour's railing about the personality and résumé of an assistant in a ministry, no matter who it's about. I might have an understanding, that we were talking about the government, that it might be about the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, but in that case we couldn't listen to the tirads about the professional career, incorrectly mostly, about some government minister, let alone all the assistants, or anyone who's in our government. So that's if we're talking about the law, and today we're not talking about the government, or the individual ministry, the topic is not an examination of any ministry's work, the topic is law. We can talk about laws and I absolutely don't see any reason to talk about personality to any of us, but it's an old manner of some people in this congregation. I ask that the Parliament be heard in the day of the vote about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8145	The word has the People's Messenger Pai Momchilov, he has the right to replicate as an authorised representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8146	Dear colleagues and colleagues, since it is said here that this is the manner of a particular group, it should not be allowed, it is clear who spoke, there is absolutely a basis for replication. Please, this is the presentation of MPs from the SRS group called the tirad. You can qualify it in different ways, you can even do it with a tirad, we don't mind, but you can't forbid what someone says in this assembly. You can appear, you can disprove what was said here, say it's not true; as far as I'm aware, all of what my colleague Cvetanovic was saying was not said anywhere, and in the press, it was denied. So until it disproves, since we live in a society that is open and free, we have the right to talk about it, or discuss it. If this isn't an empty story, as you claim, this is exactly the exposure that needs to be supported, because it follows that our thesis that this sector in this ministry is unable to carry out the work of sanitary surveillance. We claim it, and you prove it's different. All these examples of epidemics and those epidemics that we're not here are evidence of our thesis. So this isn't an empty story, you might not like it, this is the truth. You fight for the truth, don't censor what the MPs of the SRS will say. We'll say, and we'll apologize if any of this is said, and what's said in public media is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8147	The word has Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8148	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing two very important laws. These are the law on sanitary surveillance and the law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases. The G17 Group of MPs will vote for these laws. It is undeniable that the adoption of these laws is necessary, above all, because it is necessary for the legal regulation to be brought into line with the new legal system. The law makes more modern and efficient solutions, it's undeniable. The basic provisions of the Sanitary Control Act have defined the starting points for the complete editing of sanitary surveillance. It's a set of all rights, obligations and powers of a sanitary inspector. A single system of sanitary supervision in the Republic area shall be established. There is a possibility that certain businesses can be entrusted to the province of Vojvodina. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia can exercise their rights on equal terms. Sanitary inspectors are evenly deployed, and control is continuous and uniform. Control shall be carried out over all facilities under sanitary supervision. It is also defined by the authority of the sanitary inspector in the sanitary surveillance procedures, in the event of protection of the population from infectious diseases. The paper is part of the regulation of new powers of sanitary inspectors in the procedure of sanitary supervision of the health care of food products and items of general use imported. Public supply with proper drinking water is an area under constant sanitary supervision. Jobs related to the transport of toxic substances and other hazardous substances and the fact of ionizing radiation used for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes are excluded. Legal persons and entrepreneurs are obliged to provide general and special conditions before taking action. Infringements have been clearly identified, but also fines as one of the measures. The fines have been increased multiple times. MEPs G17 plus will vote in favour of this law because its application will achieve overall preventive protection of the population. The failure to pass this law would certainly cause irregularities in the work of sanitary inspectors, inconsistency in the work of state authorities and legal discrepancies of all participants in sanitary supervision. Something about a law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases. Certainly, as for the previous law, we have an obligation to pass this law and because this is what the Constitutional Charter tells us to do. The list of diseases is drawn up as recommended by the World Health Organization, with an overview of the epidemiological moment in our country and respect for the forms that have arrived where every infectious disease is reported. So the list and encryption are consistent with the 10th International Classification of Diseases. Now there is a possibility of acting in case a new disease occurs. Of course, powers have been defined. So it's clearly defined who declares the epidemic, quarantine and health control at the border. The adoption of this law introduces order into one significant area, and it seems to me that we all understand the importance of adopting this law. Let us remind ourselves of some epidemics that were present or threatened by danger, remind ourselves of the epidemics of vario, Ebola, and SARS. These two laws are following laws. In its pre-election programme, the G17 plus provided for the adoption of the necessary laws, legislation that implies the Law on Transport of Medicinal Products and Medical Means, which we adopted, the establishment of health chambers, the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act and eight other accompanying laws. I am very pleased that after this session, we will have two more accompanying laws adopted and that we will achieve the goal that we have outlined, which is a sustainable health system in the longer term, which will deliver a long-term result, which is to improve the health of the population. Of course, different opinions should be heard here, but I don't think there's room for politics in a debate like this when it comes to laws that will improve the health of the population. We can't dismiss these laws. I suggest, first of all, that today, but the rest of the day we stick to the subject. A lot of facts are made, some are true, some are incorrect. I would absolutely not personalise the discussion and I would not want a personal hack against certain people in this House. I cannot accept that when we are protecting the health of the population on different sides, it cannot benefit our citizens; they will certainly know that they are assessing who is really working in their interest and they will know that they are ignoring discussions that do not contribute to the adoption of these very important laws that will protect the health of the population. I'd just like to say something about the discussion of an MP. The Regulation on the hygiene of drinking water, published in the "Official Messenger" in November 1998, speaks of the concentration of heavy metals in bottled water. I'll just say it's more restrictive standards. So it's not true that what's stated behind this speaker is not to control the concentration of heavy metals in bottled water, on the contrary, it's controlled and standards are more restrictive than ordinary drinking water.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8149	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8150	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is where we've been pleaded several times to be unique, to leave politics. You can't be unique. Life is not one continent that can be regulated with one regulation, life is far wider, and medicine is absolutely proof of it. In medicine, even the health care system is not unique on the entire planet Earth, and it is arranged differently. In life, if we are talking about freedom of opinion, we must be allowed to hear a wide range of different opinions and there should be a synthesis of something that is best of all. Don't ask to be heard just one brain and nothing else. If what I'm saying is true, it's also proof that the last session of the Committee has been discussed on these two laws. No objections from other parties, except the SRS. Do not blame us for what we want to think, what we want to listen to, and what we want to say to you. We are talking to you about seven EU directives that you did not respect in these two laws. We'll quote them individually, we have to do it for the citizens. We are no longer leading this dialogue as parliamentary groups, we Serbian radicals are talking to Serbian citizens today, and whatever you say on a subject like this doesn't touch us. Know that this story is also for the citizens of Serbia. The seven EU directives were not respected and you are still going through it. You're saying you're comprehensively covering sanitary surveillance protection. The general definition of sanitary surveillance is known. You've thrown out noise, tobacco, ionizing radiation, poisons. The Institute of Pharmacology of the Belgrade Medical Faculty, which celebrated for 80 years, is called "Pharmacovigilance and Toxicology". Does that ring a bell? Please, don't be advocating unanimity in this congregation. You won't have us on that side. Yesterday or the day before when I said "Communist Parliament", so he was also angry with my fellow chairman, I didn't mean bad about the communists. True communists are decent and good people, but the communist parliament, where everyone is unisoningly raising their hands, unanimously, that's what I meant, and we Serbian radicals are not going to let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8151	The People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vesna Lalić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the previous two days were under discussion on two health laws, the Sanitary Control Act and the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. From the previous debate, it seemed to me that one key question was whether we needed laws or not. I certainly think we need laws. What makes me think that? I will also call on the conclusion of the 1996 World Health Organization. It is said that there is no land in the world without infectious diseases and death from them. None of them are spared. No country, no community, no people should ignore them. They always come back. If we get this right and we get it right, we'll see what makes it important to pass these two laws. Infectious and parasitic diseases, with improved hygiene conditions and opportunities, and knowledge of causes and spread in developed countries, do not present as much health problems as in the past. They are still global in certain countries and territories among the leading diseases. In the last two decades, in addition to the eradication of some diseases, such as large goddesses, and the elimination of mainly bakciable diseases, a number of new infectious diseases still occur, despite attempts to control them, are not successfully resolved. Repeat only, hepatitis B, C, D and E, HIV infection, Ebola, etc. Infectious and parasitic diseases, compared to interhumans, the transmission and dominant of a group of infectious diseases that are transmitted by aerogenic and dripic pathways, are explained by the overpopulation of cities, the intense movement of the population, the movement of refugees, or the time when the world is confused more than ever in its history. The return of diphtheria in the 1990s, the presence of morbils as the leading cause of the death of children in the group by the vaccine of preventive diseases, characterizes the present. Also, tuberculosis, and besides, it's still not a disease of the past. Infectious diseases, which have been in the past in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the work of health services, have been reduced and are not presently such a big problem. With the dramatic deterioration of the standard of living in the last decade and a half due to the economic crisis, the potential risk has also increased for the massive occurrence of certain infectious diseases and outbreaks of broader proportions. Since we've heard different opinions about the law, I have to remind myself of a few things, certainly by consulting certain institutions and experts. One information concerns Serbia's Health Protection Institute report "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut". The analysis refers to 2002, and the analysis says – 149 people died in the Republic of Serbia in 2002 due to acute infectious diseases, 1.99 per 100,000 people, the highest rate in the last five years or 32 per cent higher than in 2001. Distribution of deaths by age shows that the mortality rate is the highest in the first year of life and is 11.38 per hundred thousand children. Significant mortality rates are recorded in older than 60 years. The highest number of fatalities is related to pulmonary tuberculosis – 46 deaths, HIV - 32 deaths, bacterial meningitis - 28 deaths and acute hepatitis - eight deaths. Do the data always say enough that we have to have this law? Maybe opinions are different. When it comes to sanitary surveillance, it is true what a colleague from the SRS said about the state of the water supply in Serbia. I will remind you of a few things from the report of the Institute of Health Protection of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut". The results of tests on water for drinking or urban water during 2002 show a microbiological malfunction greater than five percent of the samples tested in 45 percent of controlled water lines and a physical-chemical malfunction greater than 20 percent of the samples tested in 36 controlled water lines and a failure in 17 percent of controlled water lines. Is this the reason, I think it is, to pass the law. I'll tell you about the chemical correctness of the groceries in general. It says, the chemical correctness of the groceries was 8.91%, with supplies from craft production being correct in 13.22%. Microbiological failure of general use foods was 8.10% and physical-chemical was 1.75%. High failure was shown by traffic patterns, even 34.19%. When these facts are kept in mind and available with such data, it is more than clear that laws are beyond necessary. Finally, it is enough to say that the Republic of Serbia has its first law on sanitary supervision. It's an important fact that you can't escape from. If we remember some things from history, we had that law in the Middle Ages. The medical hilandar code of the Middle Ages speaks of the file of infectious diseases. So, even then. Therefore, any discussion of whether we need laws or not and whether these two laws need falling into the water. The laws are needed and the Democratic Party of Serbia will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8153	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vesna Lalić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Gordan Cabric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8154	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this year we adopted the first of the system laws, which is the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. You know that was the beginning of a health system reform, at least as far as our Assembly is concerned. There are now two accompanying laws on the agenda, the Sanitary Control Act and the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. They are, above all, continuing to comply with our laws with the laws of the European Union. In addition, the Constitutional Charter transferred the powers of the federal authorities to a republican level, so it was necessary to align the scope of the powers of all other republican laws and to accept some more efficient and rational solutions within health, i.e. sanitary supervision. This should also consider changing the Law on Local Self-Government and establishing companies and organising private sector and developing private entrepreneurship. This law regulates the work, way and procedure of performing sanitary surveillance, areas and facilities that are subject to sanitary supervision, sanitary conditions that these facilities should also meet, of course, the powers, rights and duties of sanitary inspectors. The authorities subject to sanitary supervision are, above all, the protection of the population from infectious diseases, the health regularity of life supplies and objects from general use in production, transport and import, as well as the public supply of drinking water to the population. Most of all, I would refer here to the powers, rights and duties of the sanitary inspectors. They, as before, not only determine sanitary and health conditions for facilities under sanitary supervision, but determine whether an idea project is in line with a copy of the urban plan and give sanitary consent to an idea project. The authorisations of sanitary inspectors shall also be extended to facilities where the work under sanitary supervision is not carried out, provided that the hygiene conditions are such that they can endanger life or adversely affect the health of employees or other persons. The new powers of sanitary inspectors are laid down in the Sanitary Control Procedures of the Health Care of Lifetime Foods and Subjects of General Use Imported; direct health surveillance of the transport of life supplies and items of general use at border crossings and other places where customs is carried out; then precise identification of sanitary inspection controls and of persons, their belongings and means of transport at border crossings. We said that this law excludes the work of inspectors related to the treatment and disposal of wastewater and other waste matter, as well as the production and transport of poisons and other hazardous substances and protection against the harmful fact of the source of ionising radiation. As far as preventive surveillance is concerned, three defined activities in areas that are most important to us - health work, public supply of drinking water and the production of life supplies through industrial plants and devices, which must have sanitary consent to the idea project, i.e. sanitary consent for the use of facilities. All undertakings and all entrepreneurs, other than those mentioned, may start to carry out their activities without prior consent, i.e. obtaining sanitary consent, but their obligation and responsibility to fulfil the prescribed conditions prior to the start of work shall be determined. As far as criminal measures are concerned, the minimum penalties have so far been symbolic – 100 dinars, and are now increased to 5,000 dinars. This punishment applies to employees and in case no hygiene is maintained in the facility, and the other maximum penalties are from 400,000 to millions of dinars. I'd also like to say something about poor neighborhoods, unsanitary settlements. According to one study back in 1996, there are about 200 such settlements, which have about 120,000 inhabitants. There is mostly the poor population of Roma origin and displaced faces. The general feature of these settlements is poor municipal infrastructure, polluted environment, lack of green areas and public content. These are all significant outbreaks of infectious diseases, which are easily spread under such conditions. The generations of the elderly remember the epidemic of the variety of religion, the then little known disease, which was difficult to diagnose, which broke out in a settlement in Kosovo and Metohija, similar to described above. The stress that we as a people have been exposed to for many years, chronic diseases, various kinds of radiation, and even sunlight, affect our health. Unresponsibly and disorganised throughout the city are transmitted various poisons that threaten the lives of citizens in the case of hawari. In the course of this year, several eco-incidents occurred, and these were mostly incorrect and cost-effective means of transport. I don't know if anyone was responsible for these failures. With all these laws that will come to order these things will be far more prevented. The measures provided for by these two laws finally this country can lead to high standards of health care, that we do not have maternity closures due to infections, kindergarten poisoning, etc. Finally, to rise above the country's status with an increased risk of disease from infectious, or transmitted diseases. It will make it easier for us to enter Europe, and the G17 plus will really support this law. This time, I would refer to Mr Paja Momcilov's comments from the Serbian Radical Party, on his speech Friday, when he mentioned the Health and Family Committee. I have to say, two minutes before the Ministry meeting started, we got their response to the memo we sent them. I have this memo right in front of me. It was sent on 12 May 2004. The ministry's response, which was very important, which we discussed in one day's meeting, has been placed at a different point. I really didn't have time to read that answer. When I came home, I read the point by point, and I saw that it was all explained, and then it was a very clear situation for me. If a six-sheet memo gets one word out, if it gets out of context, then it really doesn't mean anything. It should not be happening in the future, that the important things that come from the Ministry are being placed at the point of various things. So much for that. As a doctor, I'd say I'd like the next system law that's in the process to be the law on medical chambers. It is time for doctors to have one esnaphic organization and to be able to treat their patients and citizens in the way that suits all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8155	Here you go, Replic, People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8156	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I came forward because I was directly called to quote something that was ripped out of context and which is not standing, and I don't understand what the decision has to do with all this, because I was talking about a manner and respect for the Committee on Health by the Minister, who does not come to the Committee meetings when discussing essential laws. That was the case with the Drug Act, and that happened again with these two laws. I don't mind what he doesn't come by, and I'm not particularly sad, so we understand each other right now. What you said was set up in a hurry, please, the debate is under way. You can see it in writing, so you could see for yourself then; the material was given on three or four pages, and you say you couldn't read it, it was debated. As it was voted, it was voted. It's a decision. So I don't understand what you're talking about. So let's say, what one of these conclusions says -- it's not in any way a question of closing down the plasma separat factory. He says no document. Well, go, please, to the Internet and look, here I have the World Bank document, which clearly says this - this project will also support the establishment of a fractionation of contracted plasma outside the country, to ensure sufficient amounts of blood products. Here's the document, that's what it says. We voted for such conclusions because of this. Don't put those conclusions back on. If we're going to get them back, then we need to get them back to the polling board to discuss the case, so let's see if three people infected with HIV had to get infected and whether the conconsequences that came out of it were carried out in that way. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8157	The People's Messenger Gordana Cabric came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8158	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, have said a lot on the subject of these two laws that are on the agenda. I would not like to repeat what has already been said, but I would like to emphasise why these laws are needed and why it is necessary for these laws to be adopted right now and to be implemented as soon as possible. In fact, it was necessary with the jurisdiction of the federal level, so the federal law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases, and also on sanitary surveillance, to bring down that jurisdiction to a republican level and to define the rights and obligations of health inspectors, as well as legal and physical persons, from areas defined by these laws. And these are the most important areas of human activity. These are therefore areas of health care, the area of control of sanitary and hygiene water for drinking, the area of hospitality, the areas of education, tourism, trade, etc. Why do we need these laws? By applying these laws, we will enable adequate control of the goods, i.e. the control of the life supplies produced by us, and we know that we are fighting for export to the European and world markets. This export cannot be done unless we have the right medical supplies, but it should not be forgotten that we also have to pay great attention to the imports of foods that are constantly coming to us, or that control should be tightened by the application of this law. What else has been put in the first place by these laws, and so far there has been no zoonotics. Zoonoses are diseases transmitted from animals to humans. We've noticed that over the last few years they've been showing up again in a larger number, which is rabies, brucellosis, triquinosis, mouse fever, etc. Then, this law allowed the appearance of SARS to be monitored, and we know what kind of panic this disease has caused among the population and care among healthcare professionals so far, because it was a completely new and unknown disease. Now another area of these laws is clearly defined. It's an area of work of hygiene care and beauty. We are all witnessing that a large number of beauty salons occur, where different methods are applied that cause skin integrity impairment, and hence the possibility of transmission of infectious diseases. This law defines the professional preparing of people who will be able to work in these salons, and thus defines the way they work, or will be subject to control by sanitary inspectors. These laws also provide for co-operation with veterinary inspection to monitor the movement of infectious diseases. In the end, I'd say something that should remind us of what kind of picture the world has of us. In fact, in the media about 20 days ago, I heard what journalists from Canada recommended to their citizens at the time of the Olympic Games in Greece. They were told that as far as possible, they bypassed the country of Serbia, that they were going all other ways, because there are typhoids and other serious infectious diseases in Serbia, which are not present in other countries, that there are roadblocks etc. We cannot defend ourselves from this opinion unless we have a single law that we are going to apply, and here, towards us, but also to control those foods that will be able to go to the European, or global market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8159	The People's MP Goran Davidovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8160	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure that today this address begins with a people's wisdom that says that who now doesn't have time for health will later have to take time for the disease. We are in a position to adopt these two laws that are now on the agenda of the Assembly practically show that as a government and as MPs we have time for the health of our people and that, practically, this second time, the time for disease, we shorten. However, human health is affected today by many factors, of which environmental factors certainly play one of the leading roles. The task of people is to make this environment as suitable as possible to live longer, more productive and happier. The environment represents a significant factor in preserving and improving health. The most important preconditions for maintaining and improving health are considered sufficient quantities of healthy drinking water, proper removal of liquid and solid waste materials, good quality of air and land, good housing and work conditions, allowed noise levels, proper nutrition, good quality and health correctness of foods. It has long been noted that the unsuitable conditions of living and working environments have significantly affected health. Among the factors that have a negative impact on health, we will certainly single out these pathogens and their vectors and tanks: physical and chemical agents present in the environment independently of human activities, which can adversely affect health by their presence, e.g. radionuclides, ultraviolet radiation or a lack of certain substances such as iodine, selenium; harmful physical and chemical agents resulting from human work, such as sulfurdioxide, nitrogen oxides, aromatic hydrocarbons, liquid and solid waste. The effects of all these agents can be increased or reduced by human interventions and activities. The supply of medically correct drinking water and sewerage, the collection of waste from households and industry greatly reduces the risk of disease being transmitted through water and food. We are now in a position to regulate this area in one proper way, which is by passing these two laws. Taking into account that sanitary supervision is defined as inspection supervision of the application of laws and other regulations and the implementation of the prescribed measures in the areas under sanitary supervision, with a view to protecting the health of the population, this law today confirms our concern and concern for our country, that is, the Republic of Serbia for its population. The Sanitary Control Act is a legal act which uniformly prescribes general and specific sanitary and hygiene conditions for all facilities which, in accordance with these and other laws, are subject to sanitary supervision. Ensuring these conditions, as well as constant and direct control of their compliance, is one of the conditions for achieving overall preventive health care, which just shows that we have time for health, and that this should be the way, not the time for disease. That law regulated the issue of the responsibility of the Ministry of Health in the part of inspection supervision in the area of sanitary-hygienic and anti- epidemiical protection of the population, as well as in the work relating to the definition of organisation, authority and mode of operation of sanitary inspectors. I will remind you, by taking effect the Constitutional Charter, we have made a great commitment to ourselves, because the Federal Secretariat for Labour, Health and Social Care has ceased to exist, so we have to bring this problem down to two republics, Serbia and Montenegro, and to practically define that area by one valid law. Above all, the authority to exercise supervision under those previous federal regulations that would concern the protection of the population from infectious diseases that threaten the whole country, then the health regularity of life supplies and items of general use and sanitary surveillance at the state border. We are today in a position to have, by quality proposal, these two laws in an adequate legal manner regulated by this area in the Republic of Serbia. New system solutions in the areas of local self-government, planning and planning, building facilities, establishment of enterprises, private sector organisation and development of entrepreneurship will certainly improve this law by harmonising the provisions of the Sanitary Control Act. The adoption of the Law on the ministries of certain areas of inspection surveillance has been taken over from the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and has been defined as areas within the competence of the Ministry of Science and the environment. The law constitutes a new project of clearly defined rights and duties of sanitary inspectors and parties in sanitary surveillance procedures, which fully implements the legal principle of protection of citizens' rights and protection of public interest. On the other hand, we today, thanks to these laws, have one rational division of operations in the area of sanitary supervision across the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, a rational distribution of competences between the Ministry of Health, i.e. sanitary inspectors and other state bodies with which work is defined. The basic principles of this law, which certainly recommend this law to Members to be adopted in this assembly, are: the principle of overall preventive protection of the health of the population in the field of hygiene and anti-epidemic health protection; the principle of uniform and effective conduct of the public administration body in the conduct of inspection tasks in areas and of facilities subject to sanitary supervision and the principle of legality expressing the idea of the rule of law in society and subjection of all individuals, bodies and organisations, legal and legal persons defined by legal norms. In this way, we have virtually the opportunity to regulate this law in a proper and valid way and to prevent, suppress and eliminate, eradicate infectious diseases in our republic. It is also one of the newspapers that the Sanitary Control Act, in accordance with certain principles, precisely defines the scope of the authorisation of sanitary inspectors in the sanitary surveillance procedures in the field of health care and general use of the products, transport and imports. Experiences so far have shown that this way of regulating competence is good, regular and complete, but the powers of sanitary inspectors in this area are numerous and are aimed at taking measures towards more effective and better health control of living foods and items of general use, then the conditions under which these provisions, i.e. items, are placed on the market and persons working with these foods. One of the newspapers in this law is the prescribing of new powers of sanitary inspectors in these sanitary surveillance procedures, which will certainly improve their efficiency in the field and work itself. Inspective sanitary supervision in the field of public supply of the population with sound drinking water also involves the identification of sanitary and technical and hygiene conditions built, built up or reconstructed public supply facilities for drinking water, control of the hygiene and health of drinking water, control of the sanitary and hygiene conditions in these facilities, as well as the health status of persons working in the water supply business. It is precisely this information that a fellow member of the parliamentary group has made clear about the necessity and need to pass such a law. This time I'll point out that probably one of these legal acts will be completed. The existing Law on Sanitary Control deletes previously identified areas relating to the purification and disposal of wastewater and other waste materials from settlements, industrial and health facilities through plants and devices, in the process of harmonising the law on sanitary surveillance with the new law relating to municipal activities, environmental law and the Ministry Act. In this way, it is practically an open road for this area in our country to be arranged as properly as possible. On this occasion, I note that the Law on Sanitary Control, when we observe it in general, is a set of rights and obligations of these sanitary inspectors and the authority of the sanitary inspectors established by this law, but also of all other system laws governing certain areas, such as these laws that I have mentioned. In this respect, one of the objectives that we want to achieve by adopting such a law is to systematise all the rights and obligations of sanitary inspectors in the proceedings of sanitary supervision through one law, i.e. the Sanitary Control Act. Today, we are in a position to absolutely achieve this goal by voting for one of these laws. The basic benefit achieved by the adoption of this law is the establishment of exactly this legal security of natural and legal persons in all areas under sanitary supervision. This security is achieved by full precision of essential issues, such as: what areas are under constant sanitary supervision; then what are the tasks to be done by the sanitary inspector in the sanitary surveillance process; what are the rights and obligations of all natural and legal persons performing one of the activities under sanitary supervision. Then, what are the conditions that natural and legal persons have to fulfil before taking action under sanitary supervision; what are the measures that the sanitary inspector may impose in the sanitary supervision process, as well as the penalties in the event of non-compliance with the prescribed provisions. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I can say that the DSS parliamentary group will support these two laws, which are really good and will certainly improve the quality of our population's health, in the hope that the other health care laws will be found before this assembly as soon as possible, which will handle this area as best possible in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8161	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8162	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has two proposals before us: Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control and Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, both of which are from the field of health, both of which are auxiliary. technical law. I can say that it's good for them to be in front of us today, because it's very important that they find themselves in some of our practical, real lives. What's the situation on the ground? We do have a lot of examples, if we look at just what's been published in the media in recent years. For example, a drinking water problem in Topoli, with an epidemic in Topoli; then a drinking water problem in many villages. I don't want to mention what kind of water our citizens are drinking in the country; the water that children in the village drink from school wells; the food poisoning situation in Belgrade; the situation in a Roma village, in the vicinity of my town of Valjev, which is called Balaæka and in which you enter, you enter the early Middle Ages, because in this village the water is drinking, believe it or not, from the stream. So that's some real situation we're in. That is why I think it is very important for these laws to be put before us today and to be applied in practice. Both these draft laws, and the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control and the Proposal for a Law on the protection of the health of the population against infectious diseases, are in line with what the European Union is asking us to do, with the directives that the European Union is asking us to do. They are also in line with the Commission of the European Community and with the World Health Organization. What is most important to me, they are also in line with the current situation in this country, with what we need here, with a concrete degree of development of our sanitary surveillance and with our epidemiological situation. Both proposals harmonize their area with new legal regulations. This creates a situation for the uninterrupted and organised protection of the health of the population, which is also a constitutional category. I note Article 30(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why our legal system is further aligned with the legal system of Europe, the European Union and, most importantly, this harmonisation is achieved by smooth development and traffic of goods and persons. In addition, I must point out that there is one degree of discrepancies in jurisdiction from the federal rank in the Republic. This leads to the transfer of one part of jurisdiction from the federal to the republican level. That is why it is very important to pass these new laws that are, in fact, in line and which are just about to bring about new fundamental, legal and terminologyal changes in this area. When we talk about the law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, it regulates the protection of the population from infectious diseases, followed by a list of not only diseases that are well known to doctors and laymen, but also some diseases that have occurred or have been identified recently. It also appears in that list a part of the disease being transmitted from animals (zoonosis), which I think is extremely important to find in this area. In fact, it's not a closed list, and I consider it a privilege of this law. All these diseases endanger the health of the people of our republic. It is very important that their suppression be conducted properly. Then, this law lays down mandatory behaviours, whole repertoire of behaviour in the sphere of public life, and that, for example, in the following areas: in the field of overall health care; in the field of the regularity of life supplies and items of general use; in the field of public supply of liquid drinking water; in the areas of service activities (food, tourism), culture, education, sport, physical culture, recreation, etc. This law precisely regulates the scope of the rights and obligations of all participants in the process of exercising the right to protection against infectious diseases, as well as the powers of the authorities in which the work of the law is subject to control and application. I find this particularly important because we will not be able, in our old custom, to lie down with our shoulders and to declare ourselves incompetent for anything we will not or cannot arrange. This establishes the responsibility of every link in the health protection chain and thus every citizen in this country can exercise his rights quickly, simply and in the right way. What else is the advantage of this law? Its application achieves a solid distribution of jobs between health services throughout the territory of our republic, as well as a rational distribution of competences between other state authorities. The Sanitary Control Act also has many advantages, which I stated when I spoke about the previous law, and above all I mean compliance with the laws and directives of the European Union, as well as with the laws of the federal state. Next, the monitoring of modern issues and innovative modern terminology; the precise regulation of the jurisdiction of the authorities carrying out the sanitary surveillance procedures and clearly given the authority of the sanitary inspectors and parties in the sanitary surveillance process. So this law gives newer, more modern and more efficient solutions that help every citizen to exercise his rights faster. Why does the DSS want to vote for these laws? For two things. First of all, both of these proposals are set up by institutions, which is very important. Furthermore, it gives responsibility to each institution for entrusted tasks, as well, to control the jobs that these institutions are doing. So no one can unauthorizedly and self-initiately do some jobs, but they are precisely defined, given the size of jobs, a framework is given in which they can move and no other way. What is most important and why the DSS wants to support these laws is that everyday application of these laws allows our citizens to exercise their rights much simpler, faster and more effectively, because if they know how to divide jobs and if they know who is responsible, then it is extremely easy to control and help people to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8163	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Here you are, People's Messenger, Long-along Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8164	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, you know, it's good that this discussion was heard here in front of Serbian citizens. When we are in election campaigns, then we all swear that we will work exclusively in the interest of the citizens. What is the greatest interest of citizens? Health, health, health, I'd say again, just health, and then growth in economic production, which is the growth of standards, but if a man doesn't have health, believe me, it doesn't matter much to him what's going to happen on this other side. Who is the most responsible for the health of the population in the Republic of Serbia? First, each citizen as an individual is most responsible for his health. Of course, we follow all of us who, according to Hippocrates, have sworn to work in accordance with the preservation of the health of every resident and patient individually, of course the Ministry is responsible, and of course we are also responsible as MPs who certainly have a significant impact on the adoption, and today or tomorrow on the implementation of the same draft laws. In my first report, I said that the SPS parliamentary group would absolutely support these two laws in general without any objections. I'd like to underline once again why we're going to vote for these laws. Number one, because this is about two laws that are of general interest to the citizens of Serbia. There were comments that there was a need to introduce a little more decentralisation, and I would say that these laws do not need that decentralisation per item, because the adoption of an omnibus law in this assembly in the last term led to that decentralisation and one part of the entrusted transactions are in the AP Vojvodina. Then, under number two, we want to point out that these two laws were really done by people of the profession, so those who know the problem, what is sanitary surveillance and what is the problem with the epidemiological services and the situation on the ground. We in the SPS always objected to everything so-called. cabinet laws made by some theorists, and they practically don't know what it means to work with people on the ground, never spent a day with patients. You will admit that there is a difference, and, more importantly, in the drafting of these two draft laws, it can really be noticed. The proposal of the Sanitary Control Act, of course, regulates the entire areas to which it will deal. It regulates the obligations, measures and method of conducting sanitary surveillance by sanitary inspectors, on the one hand, but also the obligations of those subject to sanitary supervision. This sanitary surveillance actually has one basic function, which is to prevent possible outbreaks of infectious diseases that may result from inadequate hygiene, then due to incorrect water (as life supplies), whether it is a chemical or microbiological malfunction, and of course, it can occur due to the malfunction of life’s provisions. We've had opportunities here from colleagues to hear a series of such cases, which, fortunately, have been spontaneously happening and have not received some huge epidemiological situation. What is new in this law, and what should be supported, is the sanitary surveillance that takes place at the borders of our country. So far, there has been no way to monitor and control the entire supply of life, as we say here -- produce wide-ranging consumption that is imported into the country. Also, since we want this traffic to work at the level of the borders of certain countries, we count that these life supplies will go into export and they must be correct if we export them to another country. Simply, these are things that are basic, elemental, and we need to be in order to get them into action as soon as possible. These laws are applicable. As far as the proposal for a law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases is concerned, it has been made clear that this should have been done 10 months ago and that we, as an SPS and here, resent the fact that these laws have not been passed before, because this is the obligation of the state of Serbia. By constitutional command, by shutting down the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we were obliged to bring these laws as an independent state, the Republic of Serbia, and the Act on the Action Plan for Harmonisation of Economic Systems of the Member States of Serbia-Montenegro, in order to improve the flow of face, life supplies, capital, everything else, at the level of these two members. Secondly, not only at Serbia-Montenegro level, but of course these elemental laws are very simple to comply with the legislation of all countries at European Union level. Of course there have been other objections here, and we'll probably have them when we consider the amendments that are expecting us, but I'd say that in the context of these draft laws, only what we need is really being placed. Certain areas cover other laws, such as Sanitary control of waste water regulated by the Law on municipal activity; the problem of ionic air, which has been said a lot here, especially those used for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes, is placed in a special law; and, of course, care about toxic matter, which has been spoken of here and which should not be ignored, has been transferred to the management of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I want to underline here once again that we at the SPS really represent the view that we need the Ministry of Environmental Protection, precisely because of the monitoring of all these things that have been happening to us, and not to mention what's been happening to us before. Of course we don't want as socialists to idealize these two laws. No law is ideal, but these are laws that are very applicable at this point and should be adopted as soon as possible. Time and life, living conditions, system conditions and changes that we will all go through together, will allow us to make an adequate amendment to these laws, by inserting or discarding certain provisions. I don't think any of this is really controversial for us right now, and that's why the SPS parliamentary group will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8165	I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a SANITARY CONTROL LAW (specificity) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Goran Cvetanović, Milivoje Vukovic, Miroslav Nedeljkovic, Mileta Poscurica, Branislav Blažic, Dragoslav Milkovic, Milomir Dunjic and Vjerica Radeta. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a Sanitary Control Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the name of the bill, title above Articles 1 and 1. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control in Article 1 has been defined to regulate the affairs of sanitary supervision, the manner and procedure of performing sanitary surveillance, the areas and facilities subject to sanitary supervision and the sanitary conditions that these facilities must meet, as well as the powers, rights and duties of sanitary inspectors in the sanitary surveillance process. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 that the name of the law is changed and reads as follows: "Proposal of the Law on Sanitary Control" instead of "Proposal of the Law on Sanitary Control", as well as that the title above Article 1 is deleted, and in Article 1, the word "authorities" is replaced by "activities". The Serbian Radical Party's amendment solution is much more appropriate than the proposed one, and the word "authority" in fact defines territory, which makes it much more appropriate. The name of the Sanitary Control Act itself is not appropriate, primarily because it is essential to determine the place, the role and content of the work of the sanitary inspection, as an activity within the authority of the state administration, and therefore the law should bear the name - the bill on sanitary inspection. The very notion of sanitary surveillance is much wider. It includes many other entities, jobs and activities that by their nature do not belong to the authorities of the state administration, and is primarily referring to the tasks of preventive medical care, carried out by health institutions, medical professions and the like. Sanitary supervision is an inspection of the enforcement of laws and other regulations, which include the supervision of persons and works, construction facilities, premises, space, facilities and devices that can in any way affect human health. The essence of this proposal is that anything harmful to health should be subject to a sanitary inspection, i.e. control belonging to the health care sector. That is why we believe that the minister should accept the proposed amendment, as the bill is much better and more precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8167	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8168	Dear People's MPs, I think it is clear that this intervention of colleagues is Cvetanovic. I'd just point to another unfavourable situation. We didn't get a government response to these amendments. The government's response to the amendments to the law on infectious diseases was received during the afternoon of Friday. So we don't know what the government said, and I don't think this way of working is right. I think that Col. Cvetanovic is absolutely right, because the legislator himself in Article 2 has already defined sanitary supervision as inspection supervision, it was logical to call this law as well; so is the Croatian law and some other laws dealing with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8169	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I also ask the MPs to read the opinions ahead of them. They're still split on Friday. Don't leave the materials behind. National MP Milivoje Vukovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 2 and 2. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milivoje Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the title above Article 2. The draft law on sanitary supervision, which is deleted and in Articles 2(1) and 2(2), are amended and read as follows: "Sanitary supervision is inspection of the implementation of laws and regulations, which cover the supervision of persons and works, construction facilities, rooms and spaces, facilities and devices that can in any way affect human health and sanitary hygiene conditions. Sanitary supervision is also health supervision at the border and other places where customs duties are carried out on life supplies and items of general use imported, as well as sanitary surveillance at the border of passengers, their belongings and means of traffic in international traffic, in accordance with specific laws, approved international contracts and international sanitary conventions. "Otherwise, the very concept of sanitary supervision is very wide and includes other entities, jobs and activities that by their nature do not belong to the authorities of the state administration, for example, to the jobs of preventive medical care, which are performed by healthcare institutions, medical professions and the like. The essence of this law should be that anything harmful to health is subject to sanitary supervision, or control belonging to the health care sector. The formulae in Article 2 restricts sanitary supervision and creates the possibility that these operations, which are essentially and organically, belong to the health sector, are taken over by various stakeholders and sectors which are not competent to assess the impact on human health. We have the simplest example of water supply. In fact, 23% of the population in water - controlled cities drink microbiologically risky water, 20% drink physical-chemically risky water, while 14% combine both of these risks. These are official data from the Batut Institute of Health Protection. There is no single state strategy to address the issue of water supplying the population to the proper water in sufficient quantity. Due to the absence of such a strategy, everyone is in chaos, starting with public enterprises that produce and distribute water, through water production, and all the way to institutions that need to control drinking water and sanitary inspection bodies. In such conditions of organised chaos in this area, conditions have been created for the mixing of various stakeholders that are very well connected. This situation is used by individual stakeholders who have turned to the promotion of bottled water by many manufacturers. This may not be so bad if public water supply was properly resolved in serious countries. In these countries, bottled water is a question of citizens' choices, and we are subject to manipulation by these same citizens. The project is very simple. There is an increasing number of water declared to be broken, and citizens are forced to buy bottled water, and that is where someone is rich. I would still take advantage of Mr. Minister's presence to ask him if he was familiar with the work of the newly elected directors of health homes in the masculine and masculine region. I think there have been serious objections to their work sent to the competent ministry, but nothing is done, because they are believed to be. Directors for the word 'cause they're all from G17 plus. I think that's where the proper inspection would have been done. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Sanitary Control and Sanitary Inspectors would have their hands full, because many health stations do not even have basic working conditions. As you say, the main objective of the adoption of this law is to achieve overall preventive protection of the population. To begin with, I would recommend to Mr. Minister that sanitary inspectors come when the drinking day is so that on the spot, as said in Article 37, they collect the fine from healthcare professionals who find themselves out of the home of health in work clothes and clothes. I think that would be a significant item in filling the poor budget. Finally, I gave the amendment a general definition of sanitary surveillance, and in future members of the SRS, my colleagues will be more specific about the content of this surveillance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8171	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8172	Dear Members of the People, this is a key matter. I think we need to be absolutely clear here. We're not against the law, I guess that's quite clear. What I'm saying is that the laws on sanitary protection in the former Yugoslavia were perfect when fellow Socialists kept the main word and this sector. We had great laws, and that's the truth to tell here. So now we're not getting something that's completely new and revolutionary, but something that, by its original definition, is given in attitude 2, derogates what used to exist. I will take the liberty of quoting Article 2 as suggested by the Proposer: "Sanitary supervision is inspection of the application of laws, other regulations and general acts and enforcement of the prescribed measures, in areas subject to sanitary supervision, including control of compliance with the prescribed sanitary and hygiene conditions (hereinafter: sanitary conditions) which must be met by facilities, premises, installations, installations, furniture, equipment and accessories, dedicated means of transport and persons subject to sanitary supervision, with the aim of protecting the health of the population. "If someone can repeat this to me and tell me what's written here, I'll congratulate them. We have come from a general definition and I will read it: "Sanitary surveillance is inspection of the implementation of laws and other regulations, which cover the supervision of persons and works, construction facilities, rooms and spaces, facilities and devices that can in any way affect human health and sanitary hygiene conditions. "Match this, read, laws are written for citizens, not written for experts. Whoever repeats this definition to you or at least half of what you read to him, I will congratulate him. But with this amendment of ours, we wanted to highlight the importance of sanitary surveillance at the borders, and therefore we put this paragraph closer to defining it into our amendment. So we're not having any political debate here. We're having a final expert discussion right now. I'm telling you, here is the problem of derrogating earlier better legislation from the time of fellow Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8173	Thank you. Is anyone else looking for a word about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8174	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I have a general objection to the language of the bill. First of all, some logical rules have been violated to explain unknown concepts, because here unknown concepts continue to be elaborated with unknown concepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8175	Excuse me, Mr. Ristic, don't be angry, if I may ask you not to talk about the language but about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8176	We need to talk about language because rightly there are rules of language interpretation of regulations, target or telelogical and linguistic. Language is the basic interpretation of the rules, and by language interpretation of these regulations you will not get the essence. Due to this vague writing of the law, you will have a large number of sublegal acts and instructions, thus separating one legal substance from this assembly into the jurisdiction of some executive authorities and on their own will. Let's just say, there's no definition of an area here. It's called "the authorities that are subject to sanitary supervision." What areas, geographical areas, or other areas? So that term isn't defined. Since the president has warned me, I will not repeat my remarks, but I agree with the previous debate that it is not possible to clarify precisely the subject of regulation, the relations that regulate this law, the relationships between people on certain matters, the particular services, the actions that the law regulates, and that is the task of legislation – to regulate relations between people on matters, and here this concept is not clearly set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8177	Thank you. Is anyone else looking for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8178	Dear People's MPs, the government, as we can see, has rejected this amendment. The explanation is likely that the amendment seeks to affect the interior organisation of the ministry as one body of the state administration. I agree that it may be too ambitious for a simple amendment to suggest an internal organisation of the ministry, but I did file the amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group so that the minister as a member of the government might consider such a possible solution and perhaps at some later stage, whether this is the Ministry or someone else, in the future, might be defined for such a solution. What's this about? Sourcely, Article 3. The bill says the sanitary supervision is carried out by the ministry in charge of health affairs, through sanitary inspectors, within the framework of the law-established work. The amendment proposes the following solution: "Sanitary supervision under Article 2 of this Law is carried out by the Department of Sanitary Control under the Ministry of Health Affairs". It's not such a small change. In fact, instead of the sanitary inspectors being directly under the Ministry, we propose the establishment of a special organ within the Ministry of Health. We've called it management in our proposals, and we don't mind calling it anything else, say, inspectorate, directorate, etc. What do we get by that? This would help us to make the sanitary supervision a little more separate from the ministry's possible self-will or minister. So it would be an organ that would be part of the ministry, but would in some way be independent in its work and would not depend on some concrete cases, disputes of possible abuse of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8179	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Mileta Poscurica has submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter II above Article 6 and Article 6. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8180	We hear from this debate some new moment. I knew that, apart from the spiritual and political ties, the ministries, ministers and directors of health homes, hospitals and centres, they also bind financial ties, I didn't know that sectors were dealing with it, but we'll hear a lot of things by discussing two important laws. But that's our reality. We have not solved such things that have been adorned by such relationships in some recent past. We believed that with the election of a new minister, it would change, but we have witnessed in our midst that much is not changing. That financial component is very binding. Now I'd move on to the amendment, and this was my impression. I'm entitled to a little impression, and I'll fit in in three minutes. What does the amendment actually mean? In Article 6, which the Government has offered, we see that it regulates which areas are subject to sanitary supervision. Not only are we fundamentally against the area as an area, as such a definition, it is so wide that we could now introduce a lot of inspections to regulate the entire area, building and other, thousands of other inspections for the entire area of water supply, the correctness of supplies, technologists, who doesn't? However, we wanted a little more precisely these three existing points in this article to describe, and that's where we've made little changes, but we've made our amendment proposal rich with eight more new points, in which we've made it necessary for the sanitary supervision, which includes both health and inspection supervision, to be involved. So what we're saying is that in most of these points, there would be room for health supervision, even if the person who participates in the activities that are listed, plus the inspection supervision that checks out how the acts are carried out. What are we getting rich for? What we were talking about -- environmental protection, so we added the importance of wastewater. Health supervision is important. Imagine areas where radioactive matter is delayed; there is not only a physicist who will check the degree of current radiation. For years, more thorough medical supervision can confirm whether there are higher frequencies, such as malignancies or others. It is not enough just for one expert from another area to appear from the competent inspectorate; it is possible now that, with reforms in the Ministry of Health and the environment, they will set up some more up-to-date inspections, which now exist but do not reach the border. Let's just say, when they're called in, you chase the car so something doesn't stand on customs and pay for the deck. Then there are ionizing radiation and drug and medical resources. We killed ourselves by proving in that law that only the authority was touched by the pharmacy area. The Minister and the Government were then not at all in the interest of the pharmacy, it was an agency, etc. And we've seen how the national lab works, the Americans examine vaccines or who doesn't, and they didn't do it either. That's when we talked - the pharmacies were touched. How? You can't help but mention pharmacies in the area of sanitary surveillance; it's mentioned in one place the production of drugs and nothing more. What else did we throw in? In particular, we have singled out those elements that would be within the framework of sanitary supervision, related to the control of the health status of persons who have been special laws laid down as a category to be checked, not only through customs or cross-border traffic, but also persons involved in the production of medicines, life supplies, other persons, precisely in that segment where more is said about the Law on Infectious Diseases, and as far as we can see, protection from infectious diseases is the first point of this surveillance to be carried out. So, I don't see any special obstacles to our amendment being accepted, and that makes the law as rich as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8181	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8182	Dear People's MPs, if the logic of my predecessor has been followed, and if the definition that we have proposed is adopted, which is comprehensive, clear, precise and does not lead to any confusion, then this amendment will make up a single continent from which it will emerge to actually enable the scope of this law. You're also talking about how this is a comprehensive solution. Many of my predecessors for this speaker have pointed out as the quality of this law - comprehensiveness. We have counted for you four European Union directives where there has been a overlap of jurisdiction, a conflict of interest, a bad solution in this law. You haven't answered any of our demands. How will you regulate, since you now have a law, which is current, about the ban on smoking in closed rooms and in public places. Who's going to punish it, and we know what the situation is? Where did you put it that someone would control whether the law was being enforced or not? Who's that? If you look at this 6-member amendment and it's a hell of a lot worse than a 9-member, you can see that there's a termological galamatia, where it's very difficult for a man to cope with. We are saying that this amendment should clearly define what this surveillance contains. It should contain sanitary supervision, include control of law enforcement and other regulations and general acts and enforcement of measures to protect the population from infectious diseases. No areas. There's no area. The area is in Serbian language territory, limited. Second, the protection of the health regularity of life supplies and items of general use in production, transport and import. Third, the protection of the health of the population, i.e. human health, from the harmful fact of the polluted environment and work environment. Fourth, supplying the population hygienically with proper drinking water. Fifth, removal of waste water and other waste materials from settlements, industrial and health facilities. The sixth, production, traffic and use of poison. Seven, protection against the harmful fact of the source of ionizing and other radiation. Eighth, production and transport of drugs and medical products. Why did you leave this out? Why should the Croats do that and the sanitary inspection, and why shouldn't we? Will the agency do that? Here, on October 1st, she had to start working on the drug agencies, and on October 1st, the agency had no director, no board of directors, no statutes. Thank God, there is one today, and thank God, there are experts who promise to do the job in a good way. That's what we need to point out from this pay phone. But today it is said that this year, 60% more import drugs are on our market than last year, according to funds allocated by the Fund, are often said without a tender. Today, it is estimated that 20% of the drugs are illegal on this market. That's what the whole pharmaceutical charter is talking about. Now, these are the results of the quick adoption of complex legal regulations, which we have warned, that it is necessary to leave much more transitional time. When France can give itself two years, why Serbia can't give for at least a year. These are the results we're coming up with today. These are the problems we have today. Not to mention this new flu vaccine affair, which will most likely be scandalous. But, please, we have given in the follow-up to this amendment everything that includes this control and we think that it is a clearly written solution from earlier legal solutions in Serbian. None of our brains, none of our initiatives to invent laws, but to follow good earlier practices and what the world around us is doing. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8183	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, People's Messenger, Long-along Dacin. All I'm asking is for the record to be corrected, so not -- galamatias, but -- galamatias, probably.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8184	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to thank fellow Momchilov for the legal projects that existed at the time of the Socialists, but we in the SPS do not regret the times that have passed, but we count on making even better and better laws in the future. As far as the amendment submitted by my colleague Poscurica is concerned, I would say that he might not even be controversial for the SPS parliamentary group if there were simply nothing in these elements that we said had already been incorporated into existing laws and that this is the only reason why it makes it impossible for us to vote in favour of this amendment. First of all, we said there was a special law on ionizing and other radiation, so that's why it's too high here. Then, the removal of waste water and other waste materials from settlements, industrial and health facilities, because it exists in the Law on municipal activities, and of course protection of the health status of the population, i.e. protection of human health against the harmful fact of the polluted environment, and this exists in the Law on the Environmental Protection of the environment. So, practically, this was something that existed and that was recognized by the old law, but we said that this law had just made triage so as not to interfere with surveillance powers -- who does the work and the field. Here are the reasons why the SPS parliamentary group cannot accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8185	Is anyone else answering for the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8186	Dear People's MPs, first I want to thank the President, but I'm deliberately saying: "Glamatias." It's a game of words, and now you try to put those two words together. I'm surprised that it didn't come into your eyes and that maybe you can correct that -- the work, that it doesn't apply to your territory. It kind of didn't bother you. What I just said on purpose, don't fix it. Please return - the galamatias. That's it. I was free to say that this is one papazian in all these members we're talking about today. But let me get to the amendment. We believe, although I thank the President once again, that sanitary supervision should be carried out over: the facility and its direct environment; internal space and rooms regarding their building continent, inter-functional connections and hygiene; facilities, devices, furniture, equipment and accessories. And now I'm not going to read all that, because we've already quoted it. If you edit the contents and give the object, list the objects, you have done yours. If you're looking at all the legal members and why I called all this fuss, you'll see a gala play where the concepts are scattered all over the place, so who manages to get along. I suggest you take one citizen of college education, read this, and interpret it for you. If he's able to do that, I repeat, we'll congratulate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8187	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to the proposal of the Sanitary Control Act. The amendment concerns Article 8 and we Serbian radicals suggest that Article 8. The draft law changes and states that: "Sanitary inspector determines whether sanitary and health conditions are met for the location and gives sanitary consent to the location of the facility: 1) for the production and transport of living goods and items of general use; 2) for supplying the population with drinking water; 3) industrial facilities; 4) for the disposal and disposal of waste and other waste materials from settlements, industrial and health facilities; 5) sewerage and facilities for the release, treatment and disposal of waste water and other waste materials; 6) public transport; 7) health activities and social protection; 8) catering facilities; 9) school and preschool facilities; 10) culture, physical culture, sport and recreation; 11) livestock farms. The Sanitary Inspector determines whether the sanitary-hygienic and health conditions of the project technical documentation are met and gives sanitary consent to the projects." The amendment is more appropriate than the proposed member in the draft law. This old 1994 law, which was completed in 1996, is far better than this bill. Some things are unsaid. I don't know if they've been prescribed from the European Union. We have smart amendments, and that's why we suggested that we supplement and regulate this law, that it be better, and as far as I can see, the government has not accepted any of our amendments. I'd like to hear from Mr. Secretary to explain a little bit why none of our amendments have accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8189	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8190	Dear People's MPs, this is another point of disagreement with this proposal and this regulation. If you look at Article 24, you will see that it defines who will be doing the work of a sanitary inspector and then it is said that I am not reading the whole of Article 24: "Some of the less complex tasks of a sanitary inspector can also be performed by a senior sanitary technician. “ When you see what is given in the next article 25 and when it connects with Article 24, you get the situation that sanitary inspectors will be able to be those who have the upper hand. We believe that people with higher professional training today cannot be sanitary inspectors. They can do the affairs of sanitary inspection, but they can't have the right to lead the administrative dispute. Because if you're saying you've installed European directives, tell me one of the directives you've installed here. Give me one. What directive is respected in this Sanitary Protection Act? Let's see just one. We've listed to you a few problems with this law. Today we have enough qualified and professional people, the bureaus are full, and if we think these are responsible jobs that require great expertise, according to us, sanitary inspectors who will lead the administrative dispute must have a college education. On the other hand, we don't want to worry about the people who found themselves here. It is to be determined that these people do not lose their jobs and find the proper tasks. It's a simple example, I listed it on Friday: if you have a lab to work for you in a biochemistry lab, it does a good part of those analyses, and sometimes almost everything, but it signes whoever has a college and he's responsible for it. So that principle must also be satisfied here. Here are the same health issues we're talking about, and this must be absolutely respected. To take advantage of the opportunity, since the esteemed chairman, the president of our assembly, has been speaking me up. How did you allow a constitutional starting point to be defined here that has no basis in the Constitution? How did you miss that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8191	I'm afraid, Mr. Momchilov, you haven't figured it out. I intervened, but not to you. Why should I correct you? I just drew attention to the professional service, because the notes are kept, and when they are used in a game of words often incorrectly to read, especially if they are quotes in another language or foreign words, then there are confusions and often a whole sentence is constructed and an opposite example is obtained. I've been paying attention that it's probably either a lapus lingu or something, but not correcting you, it's your right to make mistakes, but correcting a possible mistake that will appear in the record, because none of us want to. This stays in the archives. I welcome your clarification. I have no idea I'm correcting MPs. Some can't be corrected. That was a throw. Anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 24? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8192	The Belief of Radet has submitted, rather than – submitted the amendment, Mr. President. Because of the service, so they don't make a mistake. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is really necessary that there is a law in the legal system in Serbia on the protection of the population from infectious diseases and the law on sanitary surveillance. My colleagues, in principle, also through the amendments, presented our objections and arguments on which these objections are based, related to a conceptual approach to resolution of both matter and matter. Of course, we didn't expect an understanding of either the minister or the government, but we think it's necessary to bring it all out. I will talk about Article 25, because I have proposed that this member of the Sanitary Control Act be deleted. For the sake of the public, I will read the text of this article: "The affairs of the Sanitary Inspector, in accordance with this law, can also be carried out by persons with a high school readiness of another educational profile acquired until the day of entry into force of this law, if they carry out the duties of the Sanitary Inspector on the day of entry into force of this law." I suggested on behalf of the SRS that this article be deleted because it is really inappropriate to regulate this matter in this way, because we were already talking about Article 24. We have already seen in Article 24 that the exact conditions that need to be met are the persons performing the duties of a sanitary inspector. We had no objection to these conditions, except to delete the position of the 2nd previous member, who is also similar to Article 25. So, by law, we determine what are the conditions that need to be met by a sanitary inspector. These terms or conditions exist, and if they exist, and we have established them, or when the law is passed, they must apply to all persons. It cannot be defined who fulfils these conditions, who does not meet, but everyone who does these tasks must meet the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Act. Where is your harmonisation of regulations with the European Union this way? Have you seen such a regulation anywhere in the European Union, leaving these options? Of course, in our case, unfortunately, it's always the possibility of abuse. Minister, you said here on Friday that this is a modern law. Article 25, for God's sake, reminds me of the laws of 1947 -- whoever finds himself, does he know whether he doesn't know whether or not he meets the conditions, is completely irrelevant. This minister and this ministry are known to the general public for, almost, "cleaning" by health institutions, the appointment of directors exclusively from the party's main minister. There's also been a lot of talk about this ministry lately, and it's written about various, I'd say, affairs, about AIDS infection, about various epidemics, etc. All of this is not strange if it is obvious that certain jobs are done by people who do not meet the conditions for doing these jobs. I'm afraid this is about the fact that in the last four years, there's been a number of party activists who have been employed in power and in the sanitary inspectorate, and now they need to leave these people to work, even though they don't meet the conditions. In addition to this amendment and the removal of Article 25, my colleague Goran Cvetanovic spoke most. All those who spoke of these laws mentioned the importance of this law, for example, to prevent various epidemics. Now I'm asking you how you're going to participate in preventing an epidemic of a face that's not qualified for it, is it just because it says - I'm a sanitary inspector, and I have no idea what I'm really supposed to do. Let's say for example, child poisoning in a kindergarten. Imagine that there's been a mistake by a sanitary inspector and that the health inspector is a history professor. Who in fact would be responsible? So, Minister, I suggest you accept this amendment. The concept doesn't touch you in your bill, but simply, that amendment would have to be accepted and this member deleted. One more sentence. We don't think people who do these jobs should be left without a job. On the contrary, the minister is obliged to take care of these people. There's also the possibility that these people are working in another ministry, there's a possibility of taking over, allowed by other laws. So no one would be harmed by those who are doing this job right now, and much would be contributed to the application of this law if it were applied by people qualified under Article 24. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8193	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to article 25, which was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet? (National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plavsic reporting for replication. I won't allow you a replica. No party mentioned. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the proposal for a Sanitary Control Act in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milivoje Vukovic, Branislav Blažic, Goran Cvetanovic, Milomir Dunjic and Mileta Poscurica. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 140(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carried out a legal-technical order of the Bill, which reads: - in Article 42 paragraph 2 paragraph 3 the number "21" is replaced by the number "23"; - in Article 43, paragraph 1 "42" and "43" are replaced by the numbers "41" and "42"; - in Article 44, item 1 "42" and "43" are replaced by the numbers "41" and "42". Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the protection of the population against infectious diseases has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, where the words "which threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia" are deleted. I have submitted this amendment because the law cannot determine which infectious diseases threaten the health of citizens. It is important to know that all infectious diseases threaten health. Who is there to say that one infectious disease poses a greater threat to health than the other? I think all infectious diseases are equally important and should be given the same attention and importance. Why should 70 infectious diseases be reported? We keep mentioning this Europe and this law, i.e. According to the list of infectious diseases, she's far behind us. Europe records or reports 40 infectious diseases, and we even 70. Does this mean that our criteria are sharper than Europeans? And the question is, is this Europe so far ahead of us, or are we really twice left behind as far as infectious diseases are concerned? I wouldn't say that. As for mortality from infectious diseases, I don't think it's twice as big as in Europe. That's why I think the government will accept this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8195	On the occasion of the same amendment, the People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov, and Živodarka Dacin, and Franislav Peric. I'd like to inform you, since we have six amendments, that we're going to take a break after the amendment debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8196	Dear People's MPs, there's been a lexic debate, so it's a very nice opportunity to discuss this first article. It says well here: "This law regulates the protection of the population from infectious diseases, determines infectious diseases that threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and whose prevention and control is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia... "The next thing we learned in elementary school from spelling and fine writing and expression, we said to delete this, because this is unnecessary. All diseases threaten, especially infectious, the health of citizens around the world, as well as the citizens of the planet. If it were the opposite, then we could still talk. That argument I received on the Committee, that those diseases that are of general interest are not standing. If it wasn't for this "I" chain you put here, then maybe you'd be right. This ally "I" says that you two covered this sentence. So the test is from nice expression, logical expression, spelling. If the legislator's argument is passed, then this is a mindful pleonasm. He can't even be literaryly defined like that. So, the words "which threaten the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia" should be deleted because they threaten everything, and it stands "whose prevention and repression of general interest" and that is quite enough. And that's where the president could intervene with well-intentioned intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8197	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Dacin. I remind you once again, I never intervene, except when I'm helping professional service.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8198	Mr. President, I am advertising the Rules of Procedure, article 93, which says, "When it finds that there are no more applicants for participation in the search, the president of the National Assembly concludes the search." I have just heard from the proposal for a Sanitary Control Act very regularly that I am talking about an amendment to Article 25 and you, I do not know for what reasons, have not noticed again and have prevented me from actively participating as a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and I ask you to accept this violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm surprised, it's not usually happening to you, but this time you have sinned against me as a MP and my right to actively participate in the work of these two laws, because you have to admit that my 27 years of working in health certainly gives me the legitimacy that I can speak and decide fully and fully about all the members of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8199	Thank you. I owe you an explanation, you probably missed, the debate and the search was over, and we were actually discussing the details. This point you quoted refers to a principled search, and you, as an authorised representative after the search of these two laws, spoke, using another 10 minutes earlier and thus exhausted the time for debate. Excuse me, please. Please, if you don't understand something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8200	Of course I don't understand, because you're avoiding telling everyone that you didn't give me your word to talk about the amendment to Article 25. We can now philosophize whether it's a member of the 93rd or I could say any other member, I want to ask you to look at the whole assembly hall for another time in your work, because maybe one of the other Members of the Parliament will come forward and make it impossible for him to give his active participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8201	This is something else now. I've obviously overlooked that you've come forward, I haven't seen you, there's been an amendment debate, and that's why I didn't give you my word. I apologize if I haven't seen you before. Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to Article 1? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8202	Dear People's MPs, perhaps it would be better to say - citizens of Serbia, because we are leading this dialogue with citizens, you see the essence here: in fact, the legislator is called on to harmonize this law with the regulations of the World Health Organisation, the European Union, and after the epidemiological situations, he made a mixture. Now it's very hard to see what he took from whom when he didn't quote the exact source, and I'd pray when you say and say it, and that's impossible at the same time, one, the second and third, the World Health Organization is talking about diseases contagious to the whole world, for the whole planet. So there is Africa and there are diseases that are typical of that part of the world, so Asia and the diseases that are related to that region, and the sarsa here was not, and in China it was. You speak in general – we harmonize this. You didn't harmonize this. Our proposal is to take what she predicted, here says Directive No. 2119 of 1998, the European Community and that these are diseases of general interest. We do not dispute that you can place the World Health Organization nomenclature here and claim that all these diseases are of general interest to the country of Serbia. I wonder how all those rare diseases are of interest, especially the variety of faiths, which are designed, it's quite clear, all over the world. You even allow yourself to say, when someone comes out of a country where there's a variety of faiths... And where is it today? According to these World Health Organization documents, it's been eradicated in the world, as far as I know, it's about some textbook interpretation. You won't answer me directly, but please tell me this is in line with European positive legislation. I mean the European Union. Explain that to me. So, we give you 42 diseases that the whole of Europe adopts that they are of interest; it can be extended, I agree, but where is proof that you can convince us that our epidemiological situation is worse because of this and this disease, so to speak – this and this study found that we have more of these diseases in Serbia and we believe that we have to put an accent on them, that these are diseases of general interest. Especially when you list all of this from the classification, and the classification is one, it does not mean general importance for our entire country, it only classifies all these diseases, you oblige a doctor to report all these diseases, impose a great deal of work and diagnostics on him, and then you will punish him with rigorous penalties if there happens to be a failure. Please don't let us play here stories and games that don't stand. We offer you a European solution, we tell you that this is a 1998 document that regulates all of this, and you say that you are installing a European Union document, so tell me who you have installed here, and we will understand each other, we will tell you – well, we agree, you have installed a directive of the European Union. The classification of infectious diseases is not what diseases are of interest to the countries of Europe at the moment. One more thing to tell you, when it comes to infectious diseases, the situation is not worse in us than in the countries of Europe and the countries of the environment. I can say that freely.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8203	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... Just for the record, Mrs. Dacin, are you satisfied with the apology and the explanation or are you asking to... You're pleased, thank you. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8204	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Article 4 defines mechanisms to protect the population from infectious diseases. It is defined in paragraph 1 that protection of the population against infectious diseases is carried out by carrying out epidemiological surveillance and by applying the prescribed measures, their programming, planning, organisation, control of the implementation of these measures and by providing material and other means for their implementation. It is defined in Article 2(2) that the epidemiological surveillance referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be organised and conducted by the institutes, i.e. health protection institutions in co-operation with health homes, in accordance with the law. Paragraph 5 defines that data on epidemiological surveillance of infectious diseases, their appearance and movement on the territory of the Republic are systematically pooled, analysed, interpreted and exchanged by the Institute of Health of Serbia. These views are fully well defined and we as SRS MPs have nothing against them, but we insist that the 3rd and 4th views be deleted. For what? It is defined in point 3 to protect the population from infectious diseases and to apply the measures set out in international sanitary conventions and approved international contracts. Nothing in the preamble has been defined, and we believe it has to be specified which convention, from which year, where it was adopted, when it was ratified. This is how it's really undefined, and we're not sure you have those conventions for you. As regards attitude 4, it is defined that the implementation of measures to protect the population from infectious diseases prescribed by this law and the provision of means to implement them has priority over the implementation of other measures in the field of health care and the provision of funds for their implementation. Even if what you have defined is true, that is, that is to say, to provide resources that have priority over other health care measures, you cannot regulate it by this law, but it is all defined by the Health Protection Act and I would therefore appeal to the minister to delete the positions 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8205	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8206	Dear People's MPs, I know you don't like me coming out, but what I can do, I need to explain some things. When we made a comment on this, we were told the easy way – who would write it now, all those changes to the international convention, who would deal with it, it's constantly changing, life flows and we can't follow it. Again, I have to wave papers on what it looks like in the EU. Here is a regulation that regulates exactly sanitary protection and infectious diseases, on two-and-a-half pages naming everything he relies on and from which he arises. All the changes that took place here are well indicated. In our old laws, I was free to watch again, always in front of the opening part, you have what preceded, chronologically arranged and appointed. He cannot, as Honorable colleague Cvetanovic said, stand here for an indefinite convention. It's got to be called a convention, an exact date, an exact name, it's got to stand here. This is illegal and this kind of improvisation is illegal, lawyers could say more and better about it. We told you that we believe this law could go through with the changes. This is an old-fashioned and rigid law, which came from a New Zealand school. We know it well, we know both the author and we respect that author. This law does not enjoy general support, there are no modern regulations to be installed and we have told you what you have not installed. You haven't installed an international health regulator, especially the version that goes for 2005, and we'll tell you later where you missed it. This can't. Let the lawyers come out and say if it can be written this way indefinitely. Also said by counterpart Cvetanovic, you cannot say that priority will be provided for what is regulated by this law. Older law, one you have not passed, which you have long promised and which we all await, system law – the health care law of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8207	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the technical part of our intervention that implies that a second position is literally transmitted from the next member and makes it the fifth position in the previous Article 12. This means that the minister prescribes a way to data on laboratory studies, as well as deadlines and how to notify the results obtained. That would make Article 13 unnecessary, and I think it would simplify. It's not some big remark, it won't essentially change the law or the meaning. If we wanted to go into the details, you see, already in the second position it says, almost insurmountably, let's say – the laboratory examination in Article 1 of this article is performed by a medical institution and other forms of health care. It should have been written a little more in writing, and put it – other health institutions, institutions, etc. It could have been a little more beautiful and written. We just wanted to round this up. In a hurry, it was probably brought in, I don't know what kind of press it was. It was supposed to be done, but the interventions of this guy are indicators and indicators of goodwill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8209	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the National Assembly reject this amendment. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8210	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Articles 12 and 13, which are interlinked, a laboratory examination has been defined to determine the cause of infectious diseases. In the principle debate, I said that unlike the Sanitary Control Act, this bill on the protection of the population from infectious diseases is much better, but among other things, the remarks I had on this law are that it introduces unnecessary administration by its provisions. This is precisely the case with Article 13, where laboratories are defined to be obliged to keep laboratory data and to provide information on the results obtained within the deadlines and in the manner prescribed by this law, so it is defined that they are obliged to notify the results obtained: 1) the applicant of the request under whose request a laboratory examination has been carried out; 2) the Institute, or the Institute for Health Protection in the territory of which the examination is carried out. Reference laboratories are required to inform the applicant of the results of the laboratory tests carried out: the applicant of the request, the health protection office, as well as the authority of the administration responsible for the tasks of sanitary supervision. The last position, where it is defined that the minister prescribes a way to conduct the data on the laboratory tests referred to in Article 1, as well as the deadlines and manner of notification of the results obtained, should be the final position of Article 12 and Article 13 to be completely deleted and to be one continent without too much unnecessary administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8211	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8212	Dear Members of the People, we have come to the very end. The SRS MPs had other objections and other amendments, but we didn't want to intervene. We feel that this is unnecessary, and on the other hand it will not lead to any significant effect, because we have a rather autistic behaviour of the legislator, which does not respond to our remarks and will not take that into account. That's what we've come to terms with. The essence of all of our steps was to tell you that we have an old-fashioned law, because it does not respect the European Union's definitions of epidemiological surveillance. That's what we've been telling you and we haven't received any answers. We've been told that these are our definitions. That's not our definition. Medicine knows no bounds, medicine is international discipline, doctors are cosmopolitans by the essence of their definition, their call, and there is no need to discuss it. And what you say you want to adopt, the EU directives, you demonstrate here, and when we show you a document with a precise definition, with a title, with a year, you stay silent or say – our situation is something else. Our epidemiological situation is nothing more than what it is in the countries of Europe and the environment. That's something to say from here. We think that this, now I'm going back to the amendment itself, is another example of how one galamatics is led to unnecessary administration, where they put a doctor to a practicer of a bunch of duties, tasks that and how difficult it will be. I said here from this pay phone, no one will disprove it, nor do we have today reporting 100% of all infectious diseases in this country to Serbia. You pile up everything you've solved with this bill on his neck, and you'll see what happens. It remains that we have told you, and it will be written down, and someone will hear it, and someone will hear it. You don't respect human rights by this law when it comes to freedom of movement. Your quarantine solutions are nadarative, you're talking about quarantine as a prison, the world doesn't allow it, read a new rule that will take effect next year, and you'll see for yourself. But Serbian radicals believe all of this made sense. At least it'll serve the citizens so they can see how it works in one important sector. After many years, we've got two of these laws, we're systemically waiting, the public debate will be, and then we'll be able to get a little better at health reform. I forgot to say, without the procurement of instruments and appliances from the reform, there's not a single letter. There's nothing reformed here, there's talk of reforms here, and for God's sake, big scandals are happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8213	Thank you for discussing this amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister, want the final word? The word is Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8214	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really pleased to have the opportunity to have the opportunity again, and it is in fact an honor to thank you again at the end of these two days of debate, first of all, that we are all committed to a significant time to health laws. The Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health can only implore the commitment of MPs to these problems. It was visible today, same as the first day of the debate. This is evident in many examples of life that are being cited today. There's a lot of misunderstanding here, though. When it comes to concrete examples, we could, after all these years of skating down our society, for reasons that people's MPs are certainly much clearer than the citizens of Serbia, but I am convinced that it is clear enough for the citizens of Serbia why we are here, why we are not in another place, on a scale that measures the quality of our daily life. So, as for the example in our lives, we can be specific. Here is the mention of the Sword and Loznica and I'll take the opportunity to say that in Loznica for the first time in the history of the Sword there is an ambulance that has its own number that a citizen calls by phone, there is a dispatch network and vehicles, and the teams are in mutual coordination. It is also mentioned in one discussion that apart from painting, painting and equipment, not much has been done. It may seem small, but every citizen of Serbia knows very well what it looks like when he goes to his doctor's home or hospital, so he sees that there's been no window from the ceiling and that the rooms haven't been painted for years; or that, say, in the mid-80s in the largest institution dealing with the births of pregnant women in the toilets, so the water freezes in January and February. Certainly, it is a challenge and a difficult task to paint, paint and buy missing equipment, precisely because in those times which in the presentations of some MPs are called an idyllic and successful privileged number of institutions, without any plan. There was no national strategy in the education of young people in the field of health. This is why today is the health minister's job in this government, and it is likely to be a major part of the work to deal with infrastructure for a long time. However, all of you here as MPs and we in the executive power in this country can be satisfied because we are sending a very clear message -- unlike in March, today is November and there is a huge amount of funds being hired, and you will see them in the proposed budget. The funds that will be invested in painting, painting and equipment this year are five times higher than in 2001. That's where it's supposed to come from. We can reform the system most ideally possible, according to all the directives and recommendations, if the ceiling falls in the meantime, the roof goes down and the equipment is gone, we'll ask ourselves where we've been and what we've been doing. I'm afraid that's when we'd be confronted, if we did so, with the complete loss of what's here today and Friday, we'd show that everyone's on the soul. It is that the health system should be organised and arranged to be equally accessible to every citizen, regardless of whether he lived in the south, north, east or west of our republic, no matter how much money he has in the budget, no matter what work he does in this system, he has equal and fair availability and what he gets in the health system has a very high quality. Some examples have also been cited that deserve to be mentioned, for it simply "bubbles" in its void. If we are talking about the fractionation of plasma, we should use terms, words and sentences concerning blood transfusions in the Republic of Serbia with little more responsibility. The blood given by voluntary blood donors is a national treasure. We need a modern equipped, well-organized national transfusion system. As far as the plasma fractionation centre is concerned, it will be, as it is now, and as 50 years exist, a national transfusion centre and will process all plasma in it. But it should also be said that broad professional circles by the end of 2004 bring a clear document called a blood transfusion strategy in the Republic of Serbia and is one of the documents coming out of the health system reform strategy and action plan by 2010. Let us be few of the people of continuity in this area, and when the strategy of the profession puts everyone at their disposal, then we can talk documentedly about some claims. Otherwise, claims repeated from a pay phone like this sound empty and needlessly disturbing the citizens. That's the only reason I've ever mentioned it. Also, one presentation mentioned the National Control Laboratory of the Medicines Agency. Yes, the National Control Laboratory found that the vaccines produced were not good and none went to market. By 15 October, by next Monday, all centres will have received enough vaccines to vaccinate all endangered groups. That's a fact. Saying without cover some claim, based on something that is not a fact, remains on the responsibility of the one who has spoken. Of course, when the Minister of Health has the opportunity to address Parliament speakers, and at the same time to the citizens, he has a very good awareness that the right to express a different opinion is a top category of democracy and I will always stand up for it in my life, not only in politics but also in the profession, as I have always been, for the right of someone who thinks differently and to give that opinion. But when it comes to such serious problems and opinions that are based occasionally on false attitudes, sometimes on untrues, without real arguments, the question is what is really the goal. The goal is not to settle an important area with two laws that are constantly here on several occasions mentioned as technical laws. These are laws that regulate one area of life for citizens in the Republic of Serbia. It is important that in the health system and in general in our Republic regulations regulate actions and procedures so that the possibility of volunteering and free will in decision-making is reduced to the least possible. This is the way to experience the passing of these laws. It was also important about the impact of noise and the preservation of the environment. At one point, it was mentioned that the Ministry of Health gave up these areas. Far be it from anyone in power and the Ministry of Health has given up these areas. I'll remind you, there are 23 institutions, institutes and health care services in the country, which have been financed from the budget in a clear and recognizable way over the last three years, the money we spend on programmes of general interest. But it's not a bureaucratic item on paper anymore. These institutes and institutions, after a long time, are beginning to plan projects, to coordinate them with health policy and the development and reform strategy of the system and are being paid on the basis of the implementation of these programmes. It is not necessary to ignore the life and obvious facts, to ignore the legal reality that requires us at this point that we send a very clear message to citizens that all 250 MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly are aware that, of course, painting, painting and equipment is something that is not everything, but it will agree with me that every citizen who listens to what we're talking about right now - if we don't turn this space around, if we don't make it worthy of the one who's coming to be treated, as well as the one who's working in that health institution, if we don't give him a tool that will be able to make a modern diagnosis of the disease, to treat and to stand responsible for what he's doing, but also what he says, so if we don't, the laws will be empty letters on paper. At this point, however, the law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases and the law on sanitary surveillance is actually the best example that the laws you vote in this assembly have the opportunity to implement and apply these members, and many of these areas that are mentioned in the laws depend, do not forget, and on local self-government, in some very crucial matters. I urge you all to have a political awareness that by making these two regulations, you're actually doing something that is necessary at the last minute. In the end, I would like to thank you again for the so many times mentioned obligation of the Ministry of Health to appear before you with the health care chamber law, with the health care law and the regulation of health insurance. That's where I hold you to my word, and you hold me, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8215	Thank you very much. I am concluding a review of the Bill on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. In order for me not to be resented by the MPs to save the executive power, I reserve the right to remind you that Jadar and Machva are two areas, and Loznica is not in Machva. Thank you. I'm taking a break until 3:30. [[After break - 16,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. According to an official report, the continuation of the session is attended by 136 MPs. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find the National Assembly has a quorum to work with. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Milojub Albianic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia one hour three minutes and 36 seconds; the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes and 12 seconds; the Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, which are three Social Democratic Party MPs, after five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On this point, representatives are: for the Democratic Party of Serbia, Miroslav Petkovic, for the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic Snezana Lakicevic - Stojacic and for the Socialist Party of Serbia, Toma Busetic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE SOCIAL-ECONOMY COUNCIL LALović, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy (Common Search), does the representative of the Proposer Slobodan Lalović, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8217	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, you have before you the proposals of two laws, the Law on the Social and Economic Council and the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes. Both laws should be seen as part of the government's single effort to bring our labour and social legislation in line with the regulations and standards of the European Union. It is simply a continuous effort to establish in our system certain standards that otherwise work and exist within the European Union. To remind this occasion that we, a member of the Council of Europe, have, among other things, taken the obligation to adopt it and should be adopted in Parliament by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the revised economic and social charter of the European Union, which provides for 16 rights as 16 standards. Any country wishing to enter European integration should provide for a minimum of 9 of those 16 rights in its legislation. So that's one goal, that's one job we all need to do together. When it comes to the Law on Economic and Social Council, two things should be considered. First, what we want to accomplish with it is one rather simple thing. In fact, political democracy or democracy is not exhausting only in the multilaterals and in the vote in the elections occasionally when they are dissipated. The issue of democracy is a much more complex issue and developed European countries, starting from that, have long put something into their systems that we can most generally define as social democracy. In fact, the Economic and Social Council is one form or institution through which a certain level of social democracy is carried out. It is that social partners, trade unions, employers' associations and governments as three partners through the Economic and Social Council should be agreed and, if possible, agreed on all important issues which are important for the economic and social situation of employees, but which are also important for basic economic and economic flows in one country. In our situation when we enter and we have already entered, but we continue with the process of transition of the Serbian economy, it will be of particular importance and is what and who will actually pay the price of the transition. I think that's one of the key questions. In response to this question, who and how much will pay the price of inevitable transition, the answer to this question depends largely on how quickly Serbia will actually get closer to European integration. I would take the opportunity to repeat here that, unfortunately, when it comes to reform and transition processes, Serbia is at the beginning of Europe. Bulgaria and Romania left ahead of us. I think it is more sustainable and the creation of a social mile in which it is possible to speed up reforms in Serbia, deepen them and radicalise them is necessary. It's one of the key issues of this country's future. In this context, it is particularly important to ask how we will reach agreement as social partners on how we will go through this any easy road. In fact, the Economic and Social Council is a place where we should negotiate and through social agreements achieve the necessary minimum of one social agreement and social peace so that we can go through a very unsatisfactory period ahead of us. Starting with these objectives and the need, the proposal for a law on the Economic and Social Council has defined that the Economic and Social Council at the level of the Republic is a tripartite body consisting of representatives of representative trade unions, representative associations of employers and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, the bill sets out precisely defined content and topics to be discussed by the Economic and Social Council. It is very important that the Economic and Social Council makes its decisions and views by consensus. So there's no overvote, there's no majority, and I think that's one very good thing. Only those decisions and attitudes that we agree with our social partners can have the right weight. So the principle of consensus is actually the principle that should allow when we agree, and we won't make an easy deal, so that what we agree on is actually realized. If we take into account the topics discussed by the Economic and Social Council, then it becomes relevant. The problem with the previous period was that the economic and social council was one shell with no real content. The Economic and Social Council, in addition, should consider the issue of a future social agreement for Serbia. It's one of the key documents. Then, the issue of a national employment strategy, as another key document. The same economic and social council should also consider all relevant laws of importance for this country. What is still important here, the Economic and Social Council has the right and authority to address its views on the ministry. If it does not accept or adopt it, it has the right to address the Government of the Republic of Serbia with its views. So it's a two-sided relationship where one-body social partners influence the government, and on the other hand, the government affects its social partners. I think it's one very good thing that will benefit all of us and Serbia in general. Therefore, at the level of the Republic, the Council will be formed by the adoption of the law and its application. At the local level, these tips will come from agreements and that is when two social partners launch the initiative. So he at the bar won't be forced by law required, but if two partners ask for his formation he must be formed. Locally, they will also be representatives of representative unions at the local, employers' and local authorities' associations. So it's one structure of an economic-social council that needs to bridge all of Serbia after the adoption of this law and, yes, a new quality gives social dialogue in Serbia. The second law we propose today is a law on peaceful settlement of work disputes. His basic ideas concern, above all, the desire to try to create an institutional framework in which disputes will be resolved peacefully and voluntarily. These are disputes about collective agreements, these are collective labour disputes, or when it comes to individual labour disputes, to be resolved much faster than before. So these are the two basic objectives of the law on peaceful work dispute resolution. When it comes to collective labour disputes, it is those disputes that are being conducted in the conclusion of a collective contract, when there is no norm yet. That's why it's called an interesting collective dispute. Other types of these disputes are disputes that arise in the application of collective agreements. So the norm exists, but there is a misunderstanding about the very meaning and content of that norm. In the case of individual labour disputes, the idea is that, within much shorter deadlines, work dispute ends and, yes, both employer and worker are much shorter in uncertainty who is right. We simply think it's in the interest of both sides. When it comes to collective labour disputes, I think another thing is very important. Access to arbitration, accession to communication is voluntary, but when it comes to certain actions that are of particular importance to society, such as health care and other activities, the law stipulates that the peace process is mandatory, so if the procedure fails, they can reach out to a strike or something else. I think it's very important for the country, especially under these circumstances. Lately, we have witnessed some strikes in some companies that are of particular importance to society, which are not announced at all and that happen within an hour of the announcement. So I think this law on peaceful dispute resolution has a good side as well. What I would also like to emphasise is this: both of these laws, in fact, potentiate peaceful resolution, potentiate good will and the willingness of all social dialogue participants to solve the problem. Why am I saying this? Because it's often an objection, when it comes to these things, why it's voluntary, why it can, and it doesn't have to. Because, in fact, the whole system of labour legislation, in line with the European Union, should be of this nature, to satisfy the interests of the social partners. I can already tell you it's one encouragement. Why am I saying this? We still have consciousness, and the court can't solve the problem, neither can the police, so what do you want with a peaceful dispute settlement? I must tell you that already in some companies that are privatized, such as U.S. Steell and some others, as people and social dialogue participants come into the natural state, there is a real employer, there are real workers. Already in these situations and in these environments and how collective bargaining works, and how this whole system of relationships works in which, in fact, both sides are ready for talks and agreements because of their own interests. So here we are building a system for a system that is currently being created in Serbia and I think that the privatisation and transition process in Serbia will create miles where these regulations will be completely natural and completely normal. Since we believe that the adoption of these two laws is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, I expect that all parliamentary groups in Parliament will also support these two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8218	Do the representatives of the committees want a word (the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs - Ivana Kovacevic, Chairman of the Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudić)? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The Messenger of the People, Miloljub Albianic, and the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8219	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the G17 plus in its programme as an important segment highlights the importance of social dialogue. So what we see as the main thing that stems from these two draft laws is the dialogue between unions, employers and government. It is not enough, as has been resolved in individual cases so far, but it is necessary to regulate this area legally. So these two laws, which lead to the establishment of a social-economic council and a peaceful settlement of work disputes, essentially lead to improvements in the position and rights of employees. A system is obtained as in the countries of the European Union: collective bargaining, regulation of strike rights and peaceful conflict resolution. It is crucial that the unions participate in this, and all the representative unions: the Independent Union, the Association of Free and Independent Unions and the Union of Independence. It is important to point out which issues the socio-economic council is solving. These are, above all, the development and improvement of negotiations, economic policies affecting social development and stability, employment, profit and price policies, labour and environmental protection. In addition, it is important that this socio-economic council delivers opinions on draft laws. Therefore, the G17 plus advocates the idea that the basic economic obligation in the area of accounting and pay-outs is again affirmed, that earned wages to workers regularly come and be paid. I believe that the economic and social council, at the beginning of its operation, must resolve this issue very thoroughly, because you know that in practice we often have problems about these things, without talking about workers who, after leaving the company and in resolving their status, have problems, and these problems are being delayed for months and somewhere for years. No one's interested in stalling something like that. It is in the interest of both the employer and the worker themselves to get rid of these things and to keep them calm. As regards the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, two types of disputes are: collective and individual labour disputes. Today, in practice, they are mostly solved in two ways: one by strike and the other by courts. So one way or another is not good, if there's no deal before that. It is clear that workers are seeking their rights by strike, but this allows for a good basis to be created, to make a good agreement, which everyone must adhere to in order to avoid such activities. As far as the courts are concerned, you know we have long-standing disputes, and neither side is satisfied. Here we have the possibility of a shorter resolution out of court, the possibility of a worker achieving his rights by agreement and a peaceful settlement of the dispute. Of course, the duties and duties of the peacekeeper and the arbitration officer are clearly defined. In one word, a necessary environment is created to apply this in practice, according to the regulation of this area by law. The initiative, of course, is from the government and the resolution ministry, to call on the actors who will act on this advice and to build together a programme of future action and negotiation. The G17 plus will support the proposals of these laws, and we call on other parliamentary groups to support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8220	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8221	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Minister Lalovic, we at the SPS believe that today's review of these laws is, in a way, a waste of time. We do not believe that the adoption and adoption of these laws will improve something in the field of labour and social legislation, nor will the position of citizens, of those citizens to whom these laws apply. We believe that today's agenda needs to be found, first of all, the labour law, the employment law and the PIO law, and these are the laws that cover this ministry. We know that the Labour Act, the most tragic law passed during DOS, is November 2001. Here, for three years since the adoption of that law, which has just disproved all workers, made them modern "slaves", and employers, "boss" in the right sense of the word. Nothing will change by adopting these laws, if we talk about regulations, above all the labour laws. It was enough to change today, for example, in the Labour Act only that of a member of 103 who speaks of termination. We know that this particular member is very rigorous, Rigid - that the boss in any situation can cancel the worker's yes. When we talk about the employment law, we know it's very restrictive. There was enough to change a few provisions and that would be a greater contribution to this assembly and to this government than today's adoption of a few of these laws. Finally, all of us in the SPS are simply the most important changes in the PIO law. You know it's in effect so-called. "Switzerland formula". Pensioners have almost forgotten that the law was passed during DOS, during the Democratic Party and its satellites, and that law, namely the "Switzerland formula", is the most devastating for all pensioners. Today in Serbia, following the adoption of the law and these "Switzerland formulas" there are no more pensions that are good pensions. Let me remind you: it's a three-month adjustment and it's about harmonising with 50% of the cost of living and 50% of the salary growth. These are all laws that were much more important and much more important than this bill of ours. Besides, if we're talking about all these laws, this isn't any demagogy, because at the time of the SPS government, in the hardest time, there was no Swiss formula, and there were no cancellations as provided for in the Labour Act, nor were the provisions of the Employment Act, so - after nine months every job is a proper job. However, we would, independently of all things, point to certain gaps in these laws, although we think they are mediocre, that they are neutral, that nothing will be obtained with them. Already at the beginning of the proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council is the composition of the council. The Council provides for members of the government, which is not disputed and we can say that these members will be representative in some way and independent. There is a certain congregation majority that covers this government. However, all other members will be controversial. Who are representative unions in Serbia today? Apart from the Independent Union for its membership, and not because of its leader, all other unions are not representative. The independent union, perhaps with membership, is somewhere near representative, and this third union, led by Mrs Savik, has nothing to do with representativeness. If we're talking about an independent union, it's true that the independent union is representative, but the president of that union is not representative. It is a man who, in any case, depends more on Serbian rich people than on his membership. Now, we can imagine what that advice would look like, where Mika Smiljanić, Branislav Canak will be; for Canak is a man who was aposed from abroad in the 1990s, and after that he received funds through his membership fee. We see a few days ago, the minister can deny me, Chanak has become president of the National Employment Service Management Board. So there's no measure of how much Chanku needs a function. Finally, when we talk about representativeness, when we talk about their work -- what did they do for their membership? These worst laws that were passed during DOS were passed when the same people were headed by these trade unions. Did they do anything to raise any questions related to the adoption of the Labour Act, the Employment Act, or when it comes to PIO? Apparently, they've been making some noise for two days so the hairs don't remember - and why? Because these are people who are deeply dependent, both Mika Smiljanić and Branislav Canak. I don't want to talk about this lady because she doesn't represent anyone. There is no better situation when it comes to the representativeness of the Union of employers. Who are these people in the Union of employers, and how are things going, first the surface of Bogoljub Karic will come out?- I'm sorry. Now we can imagine what this socio-economic council will look like, where Smiljanic, Karic, Canak, will be decided on. And will it be in Serbia's interest? I'm sure he won't! That's why we think this whole law doesn't make much sense. On the other hand, the socio-economic council has drawn on itself economic goals and high tasks. It is said that this council will improve production, improve living standards, address employment policy issues. Is it really possible that anything the socio-economic council will do on these issues? After all, it was formed in 2001, and if it has any results - it has no results! We therefore consider this whole issue to be a matter of the tasks and objectives of the socio-economic council to be declassified. If we're talking about privatisation, what's this advice going to change when it comes to privatisation? The privatisation done in Serbia was the biggest robbery under the auspices of the DS and its satellites!- I'm sorry. The most important companies in Serbia have been sold out because workers are targeted without any rights. When it comes to the most profitable companies, and when it comes to these other companies, we know what's been done for the past three years. It's the same recipe everywhere. Companies were sold, workers were expelled, and new employers and bosses, selling only 5% of the capital in these companies reconciled what they paid. That's why we say that privatisation in Serbia was the biggest robbery. I think it is the most important task of this assembly, of all parliamentary groups, to repeal this law and return to the law that the SPS had in 1997 or 1998. And we know what kind of law it was and how businesses went, right under that law. When it comes to this council, it is said that the socio-economic council will propose laws. What laws will the socio-economic council propose? We know, 90% of all the laws that have been passed here in the Assembly have been passed at the recommendation of the Council of Europe, certain organisations, that 95% of the laws have been prescribed, so that the function is in some way negligible, if we talk about the work of this council. The promoter says in a member, it seems to me that the 11th member of this law will consult NGOs and that NGOs will participate in the work of working bodies. It would be good for the minister to tell us what kind of NGOs it is. The fact is that today in Serbia 90% of NGOs are foreign mercenaries. They're getting money to keep these countries occupied... Nor does anyone on the side give money to make Serbia better and to make Serbia's Serbs or citizens better. That's a fact. Of course, there are NGOs doing their job, but these NGOs are very few. The chairman of the socio-economic council under this law is scheduled to be chaired alternately for a year. We can hardly agree with that solution, because it is simply possible for the Prime Minister to be a man of the government. All these other solutions to be Canak, Smiljanic, Bogoljub Karic, these are extremely deplaced solutions. Nothing's gonna come out of it. When we talk about this second law, the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, it's about collective labour disputes, individual disputes. We've got one comment here, we've got a lot of objections. Individual labour dispute is considered primarily when it comes to the cancellation dispute, the labour contract and the payment of minimum earnings. It could have spread to other jobs, I don't know how familiar the minister is, but in the Employment Act there is a provision that can be used very often. You just don't have to fire someone, it's enough to transfer them to another job, so he'll quit himself. Here's the key question about cancelling the labor contract. Does the employer have any interest in entering a peaceful work dispute procedure at all? You know, it's precisely the Labour Act that provides that an employer can in any way cancel that to his employee. It may, if it suddenly finds that he no longer gives these results, does not achieve these work results, if it is established that he no longer has the skills he had before, due to working discipline, if his behaviour is incompatible with the work of the company. There's about eight more points. Cancellation is possible in terms of technological change, organizational change, technical change, one wide range of employer's ability to fire an employee and always be right. For these reasons, in some way, this bill has been deplaced, because if we do not change the Labour Act, we will not achieve anything in particular with this bill on peaceful settlement of work disputes. Some of our remarks are about selecting a peacemaker and arbiter, these new institutes. They are simply being re-elected by a commission, and the commission is composed of representatives of the government, employers and trade unions. We have people and organizations again, and above all, people who don't deserve to be on one of these committees, and there are still some questions that the minister will say about later. It's not much of a demagogy, but it may be interesting at this moment and this time, which is that both the peacemakers and the arbitrationists will have certain monetary benefits. As they will be elected through a public competition, as they will be appointed by the commission, it is assumed that by having conditions for these functions they will be people who are already employed. It will be people who work in certain places and who will have certain salaries. But it would also be good for those salaries to be prescribed, to know what they are, because today we have a situation that in a number of agencies the salaries of these directors of agencies and their members or officials far exceed the salaries of MPs. We know what's the big deal and what's going on when it comes to Members' salaries. Perhaps we could do it in the next period, we agree that it is declassified that the salaries of MPs are 200,000, it seems maximum to me 70,000, with the possibility that the Administrative Board will bring it down to 20% less or 50% less. I think that in the future, we should make such solutions that, compared to the parliamentary salaries, we place all the other salaries - so the directors of public enterprises have, for example, 90% of the parliamentary salaries, the ministers 95%, this agency 60%, that's the only possible real solution. On the other hand, the same very important issue is a conflict between this law in some way and the Labour Act, where it is said of an unpaid absence for these people to perform the function of a peacemaker and arbiter. This law cannot determine that, because simply by the Labour Act, I think it is Article 62, the employer decides when someone will also receive unpaid leave, so that these provisions should also be regulated with the provisions of the Labour Act, because the Labour Act is, in any case, the parent law. I think this law also mentions the formation of a Republic Agency; I think the issue of republican agencies is a question. There's no one ministry that has no agency of its own, it was modernization related to 2001, when the DOS came to power. They formed agencies everywhere, they knew why they were serving those agencies. The agencies were mainly parallel authorities to other regular authorities, ministries, and were primarily representatives of the Democratic Party. Because since it was a large coalition, they had no influence on certain ministries, they formed agencies or offices in various municipalities. In addition to an allocation of funds, perhaps even more significant, these agencies are mostly of no service to anything. There's no improvement, there's no special result. After all, these laws could come later on the agenda. I call on the Minister to tell us during this debate when we will discuss these crucial laws, about PIO, about the Labour Act, the Employment Act. These are far more important laws than these laws we speak of today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8222	Do any of the other representatives want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8223	Ladies and gentlemen, the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes and the law on the socio-economic council is a direct consequence, i.e. the need to pass these laws is a direct consequence of the tragically poor Labour Act. Don't, Mr. Minister, neither you nor the other ministers tell us about mandatory harmonisation of the rules with EU regulations, because I really don't believe it, and I don't think you're going to confirm it either, that the EU has suggested to you or ordered that a law that hasn't been passed in this National Assembly in three years! I really want to remind all of you and the public of Serbia that the Labour Act, which was passed in 2002, was passed by a vote from Thessaloniki. So he never had the necessary congregation majority. You have spoken here several times and in the election campaign all party representatives who are now in power promised that one of the first tasks would be to pass a new labour law. It's obviously nothing from that job. True, we from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted a proposal in February to put the existing law out of force, but it has neither seen the light of day nor will most likely ever be seen. The labour law has indeed brought so much evil to the citizens of Serbia that it is more difficult for these mistakes to be made at all. According to that labour law, hundreds of thousands of people are out of work. Of course, by passing some kind of seductive law, which I absolutely don't underestimate, I can't correct such mistakes. I listened to a colleague, Tom Busetic, when he spoke about the reasons provided for by this current Labour Act, under which the employer could fire the worker. My colleague Bushetić, you have forgotten the most important thing - the Law states that a worker can be fired if he does not meet the expectations of employers!- I'm sorry. It's really a miracle unseen. The employer may say that the worker does not meet his conditions because he painted himself blue, and he expected to be painted red. These are really the most drastic examples. I think that the ministry's obligation was, above all, to pass, or propose to the National Labour Law, which would make it possible to start something better to happen in the field of employment, i.e. to finally reduce the number of unemployed in Serbia. So, all this stuff you've been saying, Minister, it doesn't have a certain weight, because you're just starting to solve your tail problems, and problems need to be solved, I guess, from your head. You said these two laws make it possible to create some kind of social mile to get out of the crisis. It's pure demagogy. There's no way out of this crisis with these laws. These laws only deepen the crisis, and I'm going to say in the course of my exposure, and that's how it's going to happen. You also said these laws would help us overcome some difficult period ahead. The announcement of a difficult period -- every time every minister for four years has been announcing some difficult transition periods, and we think that this is really not a good idea. We know that's how it is, but we expect this government to start taking steps, to have ministers come out here and to give citizens and us MPs some more optimistic statements. I guess it's been a long time for us to get along during this kind of transition period, in what's-his-name. "transition." But it seems that you plan to be in transition to infinity, until everything that can be destroyed in the country of Serbia is destroyed. You said the socio-economic council would be effective, because the work would have to reach consensus, that there was no overvote. I ask you, Mr. Minister, when do you think any problems that come before this council will be solved? How do you think you can get someone to reach a consensus or if there is no consensus, will any questions remain permanently unresolved? That shouldn't be the intensity of this or any law proposed to the National Assembly. Furthermore, you said the significant characteristics of the economic and social council, the social agreement for Serbia and the national employment policy are. I've read this law well, I've studied well, I'm an expert, I have a lot of experience, I'm free to say and I'm free to know, but I don't see any of these two questions being resolved through this law that you've offered us for adoption. When you spoke about the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, you said that based on this law, they would be resolved more quickly and efficiently in a peaceful manner by collective disputes, and individual disputes would be resolved faster. This law doesn't guarantee it. We've had laws so far, and now we have courts that have flaws, we have regulations that we have. But neither such courts nor regulations are a problem to resolve work disputes more quickly. And now work disputes fall into those who have to settle for an emergency procedure and have to end within six months. We are all witnessing that we have working disputes that last for at least four years, and since this multiparty system in Serbia is current, work disputes last about how long the mandate of one assembly or one local self-government has lasted; the judge who judges is assessing who has now won power in these elections, so that he knows how he will decide who should possibly return to work, if the job has lost for political reasons, because in the country of Serbia since the end of 2000, such things have mostly happened. If there is no agreement either when it comes to collective disputes, or when it comes to individual disputes, ladies and gentlemen, these problems cannot be resolved peacefully, as foreseen in these proposals, which we have before us today. There are imminent strikes, there are imminent court disputes, and they will last as long as necessary until the problems are resolved, if it is possible to resolve at all, if there is any hearing to solve these problems. Unfortunately, so far we have not noticed that there is hearing to solve neither collective nor individual problems. You said, too, these laws represent the level of social democracy. That sounds really nice, but that level of social democracy is present today with us, we see at every turn. It wasn't long ago, remember, during the summer, when farmers strike for non-payment of various agricultural products. You couldn't, exactly, choke the strikes, you didn't even try what he tried in front of the Prime Minister's Assembly of the Government, Zoran Zivkovic, to bring the police to beat the workers, but you said that they couldn't prevent strikes, that the rest of the citizens had to live normally. All that is true, but neither can you find ways to prevent strikes, because you cannot stop what is in Serbia evident, and that is a terrible dissatisfaction and those who are still employed, especially those who have been fired. They have no chance of new employment, who simply do not see the perspective and see their problems solved. These two laws, proposed by the government, are likely to be adopted by this assembly majority, but I say that by passing these laws, nothing better will be in the area of employment: neither will these laws stop cancelling nor open up the possibility of new jobs, nor will they stop criminal privatisations in Serbia!- I'm sorry. Unfortunately, we are witnessing almost every day, and we see it well through the Committee on Privatisation of the Serbian Parliament, that citizens or groups of workers are speaking daily to our Privatisation Committee and, more or less, all of us MPs are taking part in the work of that committee and we see various miracles there. Nothing normal. Crime to crime! No privatisation that has been "falsified" has been done in accordance with the law or, if it is by chance, then no contract is concluded in the privatisation process. Either way, the thicker end is being pulled out by workers who, unfortunately, most of them and are no longer workers are already registered as unemployed. Some of the small severances they receive are spent very quickly and the economic and social tensions are in Serbia, whether you accept it or not, ministers, are getting harder and harder every day. However, you did say that these laws serve to overcome this difficult period, but you have to do more radical things. This government must finally begin to do what it is elected for, which is why MPs voted for this government, and these MPs are re-elected in the elections for the same reasons. You have to do something in this very sensitive sphere. I'm sure it's hard, a lot of things, you'll probably say you found it. I agree, and I accept everything, but it's been a long time and it really has to be a shift, that the citizens of Serbia finally start to live better; that we no longer read some scary statistics -- how little meat eats one family in a month and, instead of getting better every day or at least getting better, unfortunately, every day the situation is getting harder and harder. That's why these laws you might be trying to make up the situation by, now, all the media are going to publish tonight, and tomorrow all the printed media is being debated about such two significant laws and then, of course, they're going to say the SRS is against these laws. That's why I'm saying right now, the SRS isn't basically against passing laws like this, except we have a conceptually different approach. But first of all, we think it is necessary to pass a new labour law, that it sets some really legal standards that will go in favour of employees and not just for the benefit of employers, in the way that it has been regulated so far. And only if that law was passed would we be able to discuss these two laws and some other laws that follow. We have, however, invested in our parliamentary group a number of amendments with the intention of at least regulating these laws, at least, to comply with our legal system and to be of less cost to the citizens of Serbia. You from the Serbian government as you propose the law to the Assembly, such as some new agencies, whether the directorates or what they're not called, are mostly new employment within the framework of the ministries, within the framework of the government, within the framework of new agencies -- and new production layoffs, new factory closures, if any in Serbia at all. That is not really what the citizens of Serbia expect, nor is it what they can do to honor the Serbian government. Given that we have submitted quite a number of amendments in the parliamentary group and that in particular we will talk about both of these laws, of course, will speak to my colleagues and in the principle debate, I will just briefly look back at both laws, two to three members who are the most characteristic. When it comes to the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, we are already in Article 1, and we are still following that idea in other members, predicting that work disputes are settled in the framework of the legal aid service in the municipalities, because these services already exist. There's no new costs. What they do can possibly change, an act that regulates the work of legal aid, which is much simpler and cheaper and certainly more effective. Because there are qualified people working there, with a passed judicial exam, and each of them could do what is expected of the law on peaceful work dispute resolution. In Article 7 of this law, you have provided for the establishment of an agency. That's another new Fae-in-the-Villat thing. That's what we used to listen to here at the beginning, when this government was formed and when representatives of the assembly majority here said and swore they wouldn't paraorganize, that they wouldn't be agencies, so here's every law, and we'll have in the course of this session and the whole agency law. So it was just some long-term pre-election promises, and in practice everything goes differently. In Article 11, you said that if the proposal was brought by one of the parties to the dispute, the agency submitted a proposal and documentation to the other party in the dispute and called on it to make a statement within three days on whether it would accept a peaceful settlement of the dispute. I ask you, what if he doesn't accept? What if he doesn't plead within three days? Where's the process acceleration? So, it's all back to square one. Not that the process is speeding up, but it is slowing down, because instead of immediately starting to solve the problem, additional deadlines are waiting. In article 18, you provided for the obligation to settle collective disputes peacefully. This article 18 is a key member of this law, because in this article, where dispute resolution is mandatory, it is clearly read among the lines that you want to "stop the strike" with this article and this law! That is the essence that the public of Serbia needs to know. When it comes to the law on the socio-economic council, I will briefly comment on only two members. In Article 2, you have provided for a socio-economic council as an independent body consisting of representatives of the government, representatives of representative associations of employers and representative trade unions. We in the SRS have suggested that one side be the representatives of the unemployed, because in this number of hundreds of thousands, close to a million unemployed in Serbia, we do not have a representative who will participate in this socio-economic council for us is unacceptable! A special story is the representativeness of the employers' association, the representativeness of the union! The representativeness of the union - we have seen this many times before in action, both Mr Chanko and Mr Smiljanic. Now, these employers' associations, whether it'll be this industrialist who never had an industry, who never had any industrial drive, whether it'll be his industrialists we'll see. I assume you meant them. In Article 11 of this law, you provide that the socio-economic council may also invite representatives of NGOs. Well, please don't mix Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vučević-Vučo and others who don't think well of the country or the employees of Serbia!- I'm sorry. I call upon you, Mr. Minister, to withdraw these laws, to return nicely to the Ministry, to hire a team and take a quick step towards the Labour Act. That's what Serbian citizens and employees in Serbia need.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8224	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8225	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to give you some information, since the questions are open. First and foremost knocks on the "open door." When it comes to the Labour Act, it knocks on the open door. So, the Law on Labour in the new text, a new proposal, is given to the ministry as part of the government. As you know, it's one process that takes about a week, so you can expect to be in the government next week, if we can get the opinions of those four ministries, to be addressed to the Assembly. I mean, when it comes to the Labour Act, you'll get a chance to discuss it very soon. As for the other laws mentioned, these are open issues; amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act are being prepared in certain parts, and the Employment Act, which will also be discussed. In addition, there is another set of new laws, such as on safety at work, working conditions, which is a very important segment especially in times of transition and privatisation -- there are major problems, as well as a number of other laws. As far as these legislative activities are concerned, simple information to MPs that the Labour Act, and then other laws, will be the subject of debate. As for the second part, only two remarks, although we will talk through individual amendments, so I will answer specific questions. When it is mentioned that laws are not useful in this regard and that they will not lead to improved employees in Serbia, just to be clear: every law has some function and not all laws are the same. What this law actually needs to achieve, but of course, it all depends on all of us together. When the social agreement and the national employment strategy were mentioned, I was talking about this, this economic and social council in order to have a purpose must consider key things. What exactly do we have to agree on or not? When it comes to the social agreement and the national employment strategy, as acts, should answer the key questions. For example, how much will be allocated for consumption in Serbia in the next period and how much for investments? If we agree on how much it should be allocated, it is clear that the answer to that question depends on what pace we can expect in Serbia to curb unemployment. Because if there's no investment we can talk here by morning, there's no new jobs. So these are key issues that if we agree on a social council, then there's a chance we can do something serious. Why the consensus? Because we believe that there should be a consensus of all social partners on vital things, as discussed in this assembly about Kosovo and Metohija or other things, otherwise we will not solve problems. We may not achieve it, but then you will know who rejects it and everyone will know what they wear and what responsibility they carry in Serbia. So just so you know, what's the motive for that, so there's no misunderstanding. Only two more sentences because the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are applied to both laws and have two ideas, which drags it through a series of amendments. As far as the first law is concerned, I think you could see why we couldn't accept legal aid services as a proposal for a peaceful dispute settlement. It's said in the answer there, the basic thing is that this is about one whole other kind of organ, dispute, and the other. I am not entering what the Legislative Committee has said that the amendment is legally impossible. I'm talking about the essence. Nowhere in the world can calm down in this context be done through the service of legal aid. I don't want to go into the local self-government law analysis and these possibilities. I'm talking about the essence. That's impossible, and we can talk about what's legally possible and what's not. The second opened, too, is the participation of the unemployed in the economic and social council. That's logically impossible. Anything is possible if we agree, but logically impossible and we have said here, the Legislative Committee has said that your amendment is legally impossible. But I'm saying it's logically impossible. I'm not talking about legal opportunity because anywhere in the world, including us, industrial relations, which are actually social partners, they're the ones we mentioned here. So we'd be past the world. The other thing about it, there are places where employees can participate and act on their fate. I would remind, it was adopted in an earlier assembly meeting, I was not then, the employment council and according to the Employment Act, which is in force, is also a body that should be formed in all local areas. It has not been formed and we are now working to form so that the unemployed will affect the local environment, as well as the employment council at the level of the Republic. Recently, the government has made a decision on its formation, where the representatives of the unemployed will have influence in those places where possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8226	The word is by MP Miroslav Petkovic, the authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8227	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in the process of social reform and particularly in the conditions of transition that our country is going through has a very important role to play in social dialogue that is being established through the co-operation of all social partners, i.e. the co-operation of the Government of Serbia, representatives of trade unions and representatives of employers. In 2001, the Social-Economic Council was educated, but it is obvious that neither the tradition nor the culture of social dialogue, which this law intends to change in Serbia. This law establishes co-operation between social partners, organises institutions for the peaceful resolution of collective disputes, allows for the inclusion of representative trade unions and employers' associations in the preparation of laws affecting the position and status of employees. The bill comes from the experience of European countries and is fully in line with international standards, as well as with the conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. It establishes a legal framework and potentials for a tripartite co-operation mechanism, collective bargaining and peaceful conflict resolution. The law regulates the establishment, registration, workaround, mode of work and funding of the socio-economic council. The purpose of the establishment is to create an independent body that should encourage and improve the co-operation of authorities, employers' associations and representative trade unions. The socio-economic council is scheduled to consider and take views on the issues of improving collective bargaining, employment and profit policies, privatisation and environmental protection. The Social-Economic Council consists of 18 members: six representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, trade unions and employers' associations; each member has a deputy who participates in the work of this social council, and opinions on those issues are taken by all members. The Social and Economic Council delivers opinions on draft laws and regulations which are relevant to the economic and social situation of employees and employers, delivered to the competent ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The council is chaired by one of the council members on the principle of rotation, for a period of one year. Also, organisational and administrative and technical tasks will be carried out by the Secretariat. What is significant is that the law provides for the establishment of local councils which are educated by agreement between the executive bodies of the autonomous province, i.e. the unit of local self-government, union representatives and employers' associations operating in the area. Members and the secretary of the socio-economic council will be appointed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law and the resources for the work of the socio-economic council, given that it is already foreseen in the budget for this year, will also be foreseen for the 2005 budget. In close connection with this law, the proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which also includes the practice of countries that already have established services for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes and, of course, the recommendations of international labour organisations. There are currently no specific regulations in our legal system that regulate methods of peaceful resolution of collective and individual labour disputes. The problem of a large number of disputes arising from the conclusion and application of collective agreements is evident, the consequences of which are the most frequent strikes. There are a large number of working disputes before the courts of the general jurisdiction, mainly individual labour disputes relating to the exercise of individual rights and obligations in the employment relationship. These are disputes that are being conducted either because of the cancellation of the labour contract or the payment of minimum earnings. Unfortunately, these disputes are often very long, although the Labour Act provides for the court's obligation to pass a judicial verdict within six months. This is not always possible in practice. The prolonging of this deadline is due to the fact that employees are brought into an extremely difficult material position, as well as the obligation of employers to compensate for damages if the court decides that there has been an illegal termination of the labour contract. It is quite clear (from this you can see) the interest of both parties that such disputes are resolved in a shorter procedure and out of court, which directly affects the reduction of the costs of these proceedings. The law will contribute significantly to the improvement and development of collective bargaining, the effective resolution of work disputes and the reduction of the number of court proceedings and strikes. The process of peaceful resolution of collective and individual labour disputes is based on the principles of volunteering, tripartism and impartiality. Depending on the type of work dispute, the law distinguishes two settlement procedures, which are: calming down, for collective labour disputes and pre-arbitr proceedings, in individual labour disputes. Of course, this involves the education of the Republic Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, which conducts the choice of the Peacekeeper and the Arbitar, runs their directory, takes care of their professional training, keeps records of the procedures carried out and decides on the exemption of the Peacekeeper, i.e. the Arbitar. The head of the agency is the director, appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia for a period of four years. In line with the International Labour Organisation's recommendations, the parties to the dispute are free to decide voluntarily on resorting to peaceful methods of resolving labour disputes. The procedure may be initiated jointly or may be done by any of the interested parties. The law provides for the possibility that a peacemaker can be involved in the collective bargaining process prior to the beginning of the dispute. In activities of general interest, the parties to the collective dispute are obliged to submit a joint proposal for the initiation of a standstill procedure, an exception to the principle of volunteering. The standstill procedure shall be conducted before the Peace Committee, which shall be drawn up by the Peacekeepers and by one representative each side. Following the debate, the Committee shall submit its recommendation to the parties in the dispute. Of course, there is a possibility that the members of this committee may not agree at all and then, within five days of the conclusion of the debate, the chairman of the committee, or the peacemaker, has the opportunity to propose his recommendation to the parties concerned, of course, if they agree. Then they close the deal. When the dispute arises due to the payment of minimum earnings or cancellation of the labour contract, the parties to the dispute can initiate proceedings before the arbitration. If an individual dispute is pending, the parties shall be obliged to submit a joint request to the court for a standstill. The debate is public, and the deadline for the decision is 30 days from the date of the opening of the debate. Peacemakers and arbiters are independent experts who, in addition to general conditions, have to meet other conditions, have high professional training and five years of work experience in the field of work relations. Their choice is made through a public ad, and the election decision is made by a commission composed of representatives of government, trade unions and employers for a period of four years. After the law has been passed, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will appoint the director of the agency, and the selection of peacemakers and arbitarians will take place by the end of this calendar year. Of course, the funds needed to implement this law are foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year. The DSS MPs will vote for this bill. I call on all of you to vote in favour of this law and to adopt the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, and to create material conditions for all institutions to function under these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8228	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8229	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the establishment of dialogue and human conversation are, as you know, civilizational fluids and are derived from the famous traditional political and civil rights, particularly established during the civil revolution, at the end of the 18th century. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights found that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which includes and the right to seek, receive, expand and exchange information and ideas, by any means and regardless of borders. One of the greatest Frenchmen, Walter, said to his opponent: "I agree with you at all, but I will do anything to make your opinion known." This law creates, in my deep confidence, and my colleagues from the SDP, above all, institutional frameworks for talking between representatives of different stakeholders, who seek to achieve their interests and needs to the greatest extent possible. Under the current conditions, it is not possible to achieve this without a comprehensive compromise. Companies that haven't worked for years are slowly shutting down, and workers are out of work. Social property and self-government in a system where everyone owned everything and nothing, they took their toll and showed we can't pass the world. Today's developed world has three sacred rules: private property and market business; respect for the contract for compensation. And when we talk about establishing a socio-economic dialogue with us today and at this point, there should be no delusions about one thing: an employer cannot be forced to do for the benefit of his damage. The employer - the owner who works and makes the profit will not fire the workers he needs. The interest is, therefore, common. But it's the government that has to create normal political relations, human security, legal protection, security for whoever wants to invest. The government must take care of the country in ruins politically, and then the economic order comes. The state must gain a reputation and restore trust. Everyone believes in Sweden, no one believes in Serbia. State institutions must be serious and look like what exists in the world. If it's clear to everyone today, and I think it is, then the adoption of this law must have general support. The social-economic councils become so part of our social culture and democracy. But I repeat, the socio-economic council is not just a place where strikes and layoffs can be prevented. It will primarily be a place where the government will quickly learn what it has to do, to hear other opinions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8230	The word is by MP Rodoljub Garčević, and let Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government's intention to introduce these laws is, above all, that through all the advice, i.e. in advice, introduces a calming of social tensions, or strikes, and prevents any occurrence of strikes through such laws. So these laws are one of these systems of law in a series of laws that are designed to prevent the general appearance of strikes and calm tensions in the state. This is trying to dull the tools, the most powerful tool of the workers, which is resorting to strike, by getting in a very perfidious way into these very organs themselves to include unions. In this way, he tries, through a form of tripartiteness, to show up one of the participants and the union, who, in this case, appear to be controversial, because the union's representativeness cannot be determined, and so a number of other problems that arise this way will also be controversial. The problem of representativeness and the legal representatives of employers will also be very controversial to determine by these principles, what it is and what it can be considered as a representative employer. Under which system, by which criteria, which is one relative thing that is very difficult to determine, what is essentially the representativeness of economic operators. So, in order to address the issues of these laws, above all the laws on the socio-economic council, more problems must be solved, and they have otherwise burdened our society. These are the problems that must be solved in this sense by solving corruption, bribes and other negative phenomena that are happening in our country, which in no case will prevent, regardless of the union's representativeness of the unions involved in the work of these organisations, nothing will be achieved because it will not be possible to ensure obedience in workers, i.e. in the broad mass and in the public. In this way, nothing can be achieved until questions are resolved, that is, until the labour law is passed. So the labour law must be before this law, and then these issues that the government is trying to solve through this law can be resolved. Also, in one member of the law on peaceful work dispute resolution, it is trying to solve everything through agencies that are practically formed by the government, which will not go easily. There's gonna be a lot of doubt about all these agencies. Workers who have experienced well in their skin will never trust the agencies. They will have greater confidence in the authority of the authorities that already have legal services in local self-government, i.e. in the SO. All these problems can be solved (I see no reason to avoid and go to an expensive solution to form agencies, to multiply the administration, to achieve budget higher costs) existing service, legal service in municipalities. That would make a better solution, because yet there are experts who have passed a judicial exam, I mean graduate lawyers, that they can settle these disputes. On the other hand, they have the party's much higher authority in the dispute, so it would achieve a better effect. In the case of a member of the 52nd Law, it is very strange that the prize is foreseen for the done and performed functions of the peace dispute. I guess it's cash prizes, it's not defined anywhere, and I don't know what's meant by that notion of reward, which would serve in one of these cases. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8232	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8233	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow MPs, the SPS believes that considering these laws would be more comprehensive if, before these laws, we had discussed the labour law, for the simple reason that for us the Socialists the labour law is one document setting up a legal framework, establishing the rights of employees, creating legal and legal possibility, providing for the better position of employees and vice versa, reducing employers' ability to fire employees or reduce wages. This is what I'm saying, which seems to me that these two laws that have their weight, have their own meaning, will not, in the existing conditions in the public, get what they deserve for the reasons that many of the provisions of this law will, practically, remain a dead letter on paper, and then I'll explain why. Perhaps the public won't understand it, because I think it was far better (we SPS MPs think) that we considered these laws after the adoption of the labour law, regardless of what the minister said would come quickly on the agenda. I think it was more appropriate to discuss the labour law first, then these two laws. You will see after and why all of this, but it is undeniable that an institutional structure is being created to address certain economic issues, to open up labour disputes issues and so on. Indisputable, yes, such solutions as they are contained in these two draft laws raise one serious question in themselves whether these two laws are realistically possible. If you look at both laws, then I will say something individually about each of them, you will see that the principle of volunteering is a part of the process, that is, those participants and how they are treated by something that is being promoted, and volunteering is in itself a very limited character, and you will see that consensus is the way to decide, and consensus is hard to come by attitudes that are acceptable to all. The Economic and Social Council has 18 members, representatives of three different structures in society, so you can imagine how much time and patience it will take to achieve a consensus at all. New bodies are forming. In one case, the Economic and Social Council, i.e. the Secretariat of this Council, will reopen the issue of new jobs, and on the other hand, in the proposal for a law on peaceful dispute resolution, an agency whose impact will be or is already problematic. I know that this government has submitted several proposals so far for the formation of agencies, because the government was against the agency in its concept, but the issue of this agency, its integrity, because, we had a business registration agency and then it knew exactly what the agency needed. In this case, we'll have a dispute resolution agency, and what if the entities that need to settle some dispute, don't want to, then the agency won't have a job, and they'll have their own expenses. It should not be forgotten that the secretariat of the Economic and Social Council and the agencies are also financed directly from the budget. I don't happen to mention this, because yesterday we had a chance to read in the paper a statement by the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Loncar, who said that since 2001 the number of staff in the administration has increased from 8,000 to 27,000. That's a good question. When the Minister of State and Local Self-Government is here, we'll ask him to tell us what the structure of that number of employees is, because I don't believe that the difference of 19,000 is the result of the takeover of workers from the federal level. First of all, I think, we are fully convinced that DOS hired a huge number of its activists during that period, all the time talking about the need for efficiency, etc. You already know, all of their empty political passwords that the demagogical dissipated the public of Serbia, and essentially they did everything differently. I don't happen to mention this, if the number of state administration employees has been increased from 8 to 27,000, means 19,000 new people, then the fact that new laws propose the establishment or creation of new jobs is not enough in itself without answering this previous question. When it comes to these laws individually, let me say a few more words on behalf of the SPS, given that our authorised representative, Mr. Toma Busetic, has said a lot. Why is it even forming, why is the law forming an economic-social council? The Economic and Social Council exists, no one forbids him to work if he wants to. Why is there a need for the law to establish this advice, why is there a need to form a secretariat for the needs of the council? It doesn't say who will be members of the council in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Will it be ministers, deputy ministers, assistants or someone else, the third government has appointed as its representative, which is extremely important, because everyone is talking about the need for the choice of people who understand themselves in the problem? The law has two members who are similar or almost the same in our court (Article 3 and Article 9.) 'Cause they're talking about almost the same thing. What's the material, if you want the working or material status of members of the council? Will they do volunteer work or will there be compensation for their work? We see that the members of the secretariat will receive monetary fees, and will the members of the council do so or will they receive certain funds for it?- I'm sorry. I said it was mentioned as a condition for making decisions consensus. You have three representatives: the government, union representatives and employers' representatives, 18 people and the need to take a stand on a matter; 18 people and a consensus with our own personalities in Serbia is difficult. Who are the employers and who are the union representatives? One very problematic question, and you will see when I talk about a law on peaceful dispute settlement as far as these conditions and a hypocritical question, because representatives of unions who have all voted in favour of the draft labour law, or the applicable Labour Act, should now appear as someone who defends the interests of employees or who should help to preserve their rights. I will remind Serbia's public that in 2001, when the law was adopted, the president of the Independent Union Association was a resolute minister. He promoted the Labour Act. Now it should be one of the union representatives, and these other two unions absolutely supported the adoption of the law even though it had, in its contents, "by workers", poor solutions. You know how, I know that in the SPS parliamentary group, they told us that they had to respect political reality and that they had to support the DOS proposal. As long as they respect political reality and work against the interests of workers, how can they be expected to in some solution such as this offered by the law, they are someone who defends those interests of employees or defends his interest, if he is fired or if his salary is low? Interestingly, in Article 10 of this Law, there is a formulation that the ministry is obliged to respond to the council, i.e. by itself setting advice above the ministry. The Ministry is required to respond. If it is an opinion, the ministry is required, because it speaks in itself about some character of the relationship that has been established between the ministry and this council. What happens if you don't accept the advice? Nothing! And that is the whole point and shows the extent of the economic and social council; nothing will happen unless the Council adopts its opinion, because there will be representatives of the government, we will see which, but essentially that opinion of the council will not produce any consequences. It is interesting to predict that the council can establish permanent and temporary working bodies, which again increases bureaucracy, the number of people who serve the council, as some set of untouchable ones. There are few 18 people who work there with all their knowledge and abilities that they possess, but also the secretariat and plus the individual working bodies, which in itself speaks about the way they work. It's a very interesting solution to the chairman's rotation. It's one solution that we've memorized from past times with one-year mandates, and you all know that this solution itself has not been practical or functional. Because a rotation with one term of one year isn't something that's a condition of functionality. It is interesting to mention that money from the budget is foreseen as the basis of the work of this council. The story of donations and other sources of funding, the proposer himself killed in response to individual amendments, which mentions that both the council and the dispute resolution agency will be financed exclusively from the Republic of Serbia's budget. When it comes to the law on peaceful dispute resolution, a fundamental question arises who is interested in peaceful dispute resolution? First the worker, because the existing law got fired or his salary cut! Is the employer interested? Of course not. Will he accept to participate in a peaceful dispute settlement? If he quit or cut his salary, of course he won't. Then you ask the essential questions of the scope of this law. If he was fired, if he had reduced his salary, would the employer agree to be the subject of arbiter's work in a peaceful settlement of labour disputes? It makes sense that he won't. And I'm saying that it would be better if we had passed the labour law, to see the content of the labour law, and then to discuss this law; because you yourself know that litigation takes a long time and that a practical worker who lost his job or his salary is reduced, if he leads a working dispute to justice for a very long time. And this law promotes the principle of volunteering for actors to include collective agreements in resolving peaceful disputes. I mentioned that there's an agency forming here, and that's why new jobs are opening up. It is interesting to mention that the costs of the peacemaker, i.e. the arbiter, are on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Peace Committee makes recommendations that everyone, consensus, should vote on, I said what I think about it, and if it is not adopted, or if that recommendation is not passed, then the Peacekeeper takes matters into his own hands, but with a very limited range. It would be interesting to hear that it determines who is a peacemaker, or arbiter, or on the basis of a public competition, in Article 38 of the Law, one of the conditions to be chosen as a peacemaker is that it is a worthy candidate. What are the qualifications that define someone as a worthy candidate for the conduct of the Arbitrarian’s affairs, or peacemaker, in the peaceful settlement of disputes?- I'm sorry. I mentioned the question of union representatives and employers. Who in Serbia is representative, especially this story I mentioned earlier, and will be very interesting to see representatives of unions who have all voted in favour of a poor labour law, which is current, valid and which employees are reduced rights, those who remain jobless are also reduced rights, that they appear as someone who predicts resolving the worker issue. Instead of dealing with the jobs of workers, they deal with everything else but what is their essence. Two more findings. The range of recommendations adopted - they will practically be without a final effect, except for some moral sanctions, and without the consent of the participants, there is no possibility of resolving the dispute. The issue of publishing the recommendation - again it will be a question of money, because if there is no money, no media today will publish a recommendation for a peaceful dispute settlement, or related to any dispute. So, the SPS parliamentary group is fully convinced that it would be far better if we had discussed the labour law first, because we do not dispute the need to create an institutional framework for the opening of social dialogue in Serbia, but it was better if we had passed the labour law, because perhaps the scope of this law would be better seen than in the existing conditions. We do not dispute the need for our legislation to be brought into line with international conventions. We do not dispute the need to apply experience from Western countries to us, but we think that a bad move, in line with the moves that are within the jurisdiction of this ministry, first discuss these laws, then the labour law. It would be far more appropriate if it were different, to see what the content of the labour law is, to fight for the rights of employees, for those who want it or for employers to be unable to decide on the fate of employees, and only then to discuss these issues, because these issues and these laws themselves will have no greater effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8234	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two draft laws under emergency procedure - a bill on the socio-economic council and a proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes submitted by the Government, which, at the very beginning, states that the government will not apply them. This is seen when laws are read; at the very end of one law and the other laws lack criminal provisions, so that those to whom the laws apply are not forced to respect the law, nor do they have to do so by the letter of this law, nor do they have to participate in the formation of what is offered by law. Namely, the bill on the socio-economic council -- it foresees the formation of a council (already in the second member) and the difference is that it says here "the formation of a socio-economic agency" would be exactly the same, only the changed word "the council". Everything else contained by the agency also contains advice, but it is compensated in the following law. We have predicted, and it is perfectly logical that, in the proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council, among those who make the advice, they will be present and unemployed. The Ministry’s explanation, or minister, that it is not a practice, in some countries of Europe, cannot stand, because it is not a practice in some countries of Europe to have such a rate of unemployment, that it is more than 800,000 unemployed, and that 300,000 are soon left without a job, because they are going to work and not getting paid. Those countries that don't have that kind of problem with the unemployed don't have to respect this. And that they have unemployed people can adhere to this tripartite principle and have government representatives present, if it's at a republican level, then representatives of representative employers' associations, although it's extremely uncertain. The difference between this council and the agency is there's no director here. That he's supposed to be the director. , such as (Article 7) The intended secretary, appointed by the socio-economic council at four years of age, would be completely identical to the agency, given that these jobs in charge of the council, knowing the laws under which agencies were formed so far, would see that all the same are just changing names. Because there are no criminal provisions in this law, it is extremely unclear how it is thought to apply this law in practice. The minister noted that our amendments, when he spoke about this law, were mostly set up to introduce the fourth one, i.e. unemployed, into this socio-economic council, as a partner. However, not all amendments concern that. You have one amendment to Article 10 here, but I won't talk much about it, when it's discussed in particular, then I'll talk, where it's said that the socio-economic council is considering draft laws, etc., opinions delivered to the Ministry, it's duty to respond within 30 days to the socio-economic council, or to inform him of its views, and if the Ministry doesn't do so, the socio-economic council can also deliver an opinion to the Government. What if he delivers it to the government? Why does the government not commit itself to informing the social - economic advice about their views, or is it a right that is essentially not right? We have an interesting situation with Article 12. In the socio-economic council, we have a situation for the council to elect the chairman from different groups per year, but their mandate takes four years. It's impossible to do this without someone from that group being twice in the course of that four-year council president. Of course the others will be angry. If, twice over four years, the chairman is appointed by the ministry of council members, of course, those representing employers and trade unions will be cut off. Or, if it starts with the unions, they'll have the possibility in that fourth year once again, on the principle of rotation to come to order and to have their chairman. That's why this amendment, which is in the beginning, where the unemployed are introduced, is very elaborate, because this problem is completely disappearing, and in four years everyone will be in line. It's not that impossible to implement in practice. How will you determine the representatives who are representative? It will be very easy to determine those who will represent the unemployed if you really have that interest. In Article 14, you have an individual in each member, but we will talk about it when we talk about amendments - if two participants launch an initiative, at local level, for the education of the local council, the other participants are obliged to accept the initiative. What if he won't? They are obliged, but what will you oblige them to do? Do you have any criminal provisions here to say - unless the third one accepts, he'll be punished? No, an executive can launch an initiative at a local level along with a representative, say, employers, and the unemployed, or trade unions, say, we are not interested, and you cannot in any way force them to set up a socio-economic council. When it comes to the proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, the impression is that this law has arrived at our disposal only because another agency would be established. In fact, no one has ever stopped anyone from settling disputes peacefully. Whenever they had an interest in settling disputes peacefully, they could do it. And there's a tripartiteness here, unclear why, and then I'll tell you it doesn't always have to be tripartite. Minister, I'd like you to tell us tomorrow that you think the problem of the RTB "Bor" strike is resolved peacefully when the highway is blocked. How this could have been resolved peacefully, and in addition to one party agreeing, as the ministry representatives then did, they promised 30m euros in credit for the longest month, and it has been the third month, no euro has arrived, even the tender has arrived, announced for the sale of RTB Bor. How do you plan to resolve this dispute? If you couldn't solve it before, you won't be able to solve it now. No peacemaker, not even an arbiter will help. It is unclear who will be in charge of resolving the RTB dispute "Bor", and it will be -- whether it will be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or a council at the level of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a government firm or it will be a council at the level of the local community. If there is a council at the level of the Republic of Serbia, whether trade unions, as other partners, at the local level, will trust, say Smiljanic to solve their problems, without them getting involved because they had already solved and the strikers had happened. When it comes to the amendments that we have submitted, we have received a statement from the Legislative Committee that they are practically impossible because there is a tripartiteness everywhere. I brought for this pay phone and the law, which will be held as the 21st point of this session, is the proposal for a law on companies. You will see here the recommendations of Europe. You'll see that it's said -- what's more in modern conditions, and this concept of tripartiteness grows increasingly into the concept of multipartyism, and it's mostly done in all laws. So, in all laws and not just in the social and economic council law and in the company law, it means in all laws that treat economic, economic or any other matter -- it's necessary to introduce as many partners as possible to make sense. But I'm saying, because of the lack of criminal provisions, these laws aren't even meant to apply. They're supposed to take some time to the assembly to discuss matters that don't matter. The point of this is to hire a certain number of people in councils and agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-08-0.u8236	Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing today's work. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
