ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10289	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as all my previous debaters have said, are dissatisfied with the distribution of funds by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for local self-government, and also in my municipality the same mood, but we are aware that this part of the money is meant for local self-government so much and that there is no more income. He said Minister Dinkic is part of the gambling fund Ä 200 million, so that it will be distributed to some local self-governments where there will be some crises in the next 2005. I think those funds are small, too. That 200 million if given to two local self-governments, each by 100, that would only mean something in the right sense, and if one million, two, that's just survival. As far as the Shid Municipality is concerned, we have also been denied a portion of the budget. In this year, 60 million were received from the Republic, and 48 million were determined by Minister Dinkic for the next year 2005. It means we get 12 million less. Given that inflation was 12 per cent this year, and that inflation next year, as Minister Dinkic said, will be 9%, that is 21 per cent, I think that we are well denied compared to the 10 per cent, where the increase in earnings is from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, and that means nothing to us. I have no intention of complaining, to beg for money, but I can only say that the government is helping me in another segment, which is to start a business in my community, to run the "Strem" meat industry, which is the biggest giant in my municipality, which employs 1,700 workers, to find an adequate buyer, to start that production, which has, from field to table, absolutely surrounded by everything. I'd be willing to give up this 48 million, run the Ulysses, all the companies in Shida, and that doesn't cost the government anything. It's only cost to find an adequate partner who will show up, who will buy these companies and start the economy. I'd be very grateful on that side to help the Shid municipality. I must tell you that we, too, are the first municipalities to rely on the former Republic of Croatia, and you know that all refugees who have been expelled from other republics have first come to us in our municipality, many have stayed there, and some have found refuge further and on that side should help this government as much as they can. Although we are a small municipality, with small incomes and budgets, we have had the strength to scholarship 60 students in 2005, which is not a small thing. So, to take care of our young staff, future staff, and we have a great desire to keep them working in their community, where they get a scholarship, and to work, we need to start the economy. The government can only do that if it has wishes and intentions. I am sorry that Minister Dinkic is not here to hear this discussion, to record in his notebook, and to help us as much as he can. There are municipalities that got up to 45 percent more of the budget than they had in this period, and I have to say these are municipalities where the G17 plus won. I don't think that's right. It means that in my victory, the candidate in front of G17 plus the municipality would certainly get more. I don't think that's the way to look, to look at the width, to look at all the citizens, all the people of good faith. Everybody wants it to be good and to go better, nobody wants it to be bad. For that reason, in front of the SRS, I'm unhappy and I'm not asking for money, but all I'm asking is that an economy be launched in my municipality and we'll be very grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10290	The People's MP Radic Jokovic has the word, and let the MP Stefan Zanko be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10291	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing two draft laws: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and the Bill on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. Changes in the tax system have caused changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government in a work that defines the financing of local self-government. Article 77 The law was defined as providing funding for the budget of local self-government units from the original and concessiond public revenues and transfer funds from the Republic's budget. The adoption of the Value Added Tax Act, which will apply from 1 January 2005, abolishs the sales tax, hence the earlier way of financing the budget of local self-government through the establishment of the annual volume of funds. Due to these changes in tax regulations, amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, the replacement of income to local self-government budgets is ensured. Article 5, i.e. the amended Article 99, has been defined to establish a part of the income tax referred to in point (8) of Article 98(1) of this Act and the amount of funds belonging to the local self-government unit on the basis of transfers from the budget of the Republic. The total amount of transfer funds set out in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia allocated to the budgets of local self-government consists of two parts: works intended to cover the missing funds of part of the income paid due to changes in the tax rules and works distributed according to the criteria, number of residents, number of departments and number of elementary and secondary schools facilities, number of children covered by social care for children and the number of social care facilities for children, environmental status, level of development...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10292	Mr. Radich, can you put the microphones down, the MPs can't hear you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10293	It is clear that in the case of the distribution of transfer funds to local self-government units, it is necessary to level the volume of public expenditure, but it is not clear how this is achieved. All of these criteria do not have the same weight in the distribution of these funds, and it can reasonably be asked to extend the criteria to the length of roads, the number of sports facilities, the length and state of the water supply, sewage and power grids, the number of refugees and the number of employees. So there is also a need to standardise the number of employees in all local self-governments. It is also not only the number of objects, but the condition in which these objects are located, their age and their equipment. The more criteria are taken into account, if they are adequately valued, the more fair distribution of these funds is obtained. The draft law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005 suggested that the participation of all those entities in the profit tax be 40%. It should be noted here that the profit tax until 1 July 2004 belonged to the budgets of local self-government of 5%, but at that time we had a profit fund tax, which belonged to local budgets at 3.5%. By abolishing the income tax from July 1st 2004, the budgets of Belgrade's municipalities, cities and cities increased the income tax from 5 per cent to 30%, and some municipalities have made an additional correction by increasing the percentage of taxes on the turnover of products and services. Since many amendments have been tabled on the proposal for this law, the proposed allocation of 13.8 billion dinars, set out in the 2005 Budget Law, has not been well implemented. It is not clear how there was a deviation in the distribution by units of local self-government compared to the allocation of the annual volume of funds in 2004, if both distributions are based on the same criteria laid down in Articles 5 and 99, respectively, and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government. The proposed allocation of several transfer funds compared to the distribution of the annual volume of funds in 2004 won the city of Belgrade and the municipalities of Apatin, Baki Petrovac, Bosilegrad, Varvarin, Vlasotince, Žagutica, Irig, Loznica, Plandište, Razanj, Srljig, Sremski Karlovci and Choka. All other municipalities received fewer and some fewer. I agree that it is difficult to find the right formula for the distribution of these funds, but certain specificities of certain municipalities must be respected. Many municipalities suffered major damage during NATO bombings, without any criteria in the distribution of these funds being respected. There are a lot of municipalities that have also benefited from NATO bombings, as donations that received significantly improved their infrastructure, although they did not suffer damage, while municipalities exposed to NATO bombings have been practically dropped out of donations. I cite the example of the municipality from which I come, that is the municipality of Luciani, which has suffered major destruction of the buildings, so it even had to be loaned to the Commercial Bank to repair the damage to the boiler that warms up the entire settlement. The economy has not yet recovered, the privatisation of all business entities has not been performed, and in the largest company, Milan Blagojevic - a dedicated production company, has not yet completed the restructuring process, which is run by the Government's Commission for the Restructuring of Purpose Capacities. It is obvious that the budget of the municipality cannot be filled from increased participation in the profit tax, because it either does not, or is at a low level. I requested an amendment to increase the transfer funds to the level of funds that were determined by the annual volume of funds for this year. Thus, the minister agreed that the criteria for the distribution of transfer funds were not comprehensive in guaranteeing the fair distribution of these funds and promised that by 31 March 2005 they would be amended, or complemented, and that in the event that the allocation of these funds by the applicable criteria was failed, there was the possibility of removing these errors by intervention from the fund in which 200 million were provided for these purposes. I withdraw the amendment I submitted to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in profit tax in 2005. Without greater economic independence, local self-government units have no decentralisation of the government, which we all advocated. On the other hand, I have to say that the municipalities that have a large number of rural populations have no other way to build a country infrastructure unless they get more transfer funds. It doesn't mean anything to us that we're giving big funds from the Republic's budget to improve agriculture, if we don't have people to stay in the country to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10294	Thank you. Mr. Radich has withdrawn the amendment. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10295	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amending the Law on Local Self-Government and the law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005 will speak through the prism of the fact that I come from Zaječar. I will create a specific parallel with the budget of the Zaječar municipality for 2004. Zaječar municipality had some 110m dinars in its 2004 budget from sales taxes. Changes in the tax system abolished the sales tax, replaced, i.e. a value added tax was introduced. With regard to this bill, this amount is intended to be compensated by the amount of transfer funds of 76 million dinars and by increasing the participation of the municipality in profit tax from 30% to 40%, not to mention the possibility set out in Article 4. Proposal for a law to reduce these funds in proportion to budget cuts. Let's start from the assumption that there will be no reduction, if we can read these figures in the Bill's proposal, we can conclude that the budget of the Zajecar municipality will be unjustly smaller. This is about a difference of 33 million dinars. If we take into account the increase of the municipality's participation in profit tax from 30 per cent to 40%, at this year's earnings level, it will be higher by 16 million, so there is a deficit of 17 million dinars compared to 2004 in the Zaječar municipality budget. It would be good if these funds stayed at least on the same level, if not higher. The question is whether the growing economy will be able to pay this amount of profits in 2004 at all, if we know that the growing number of businesses is reducing the size of jobs and reducing the number of employees. He can't propose to some strange mathematics in the explanation of the bill to convince us that this division of funds is good and just. The division is not good for the people of Zaječar, because this is why the budget of the Zaječar municipality, and that is the case with most municipalities in Serbia, will be smaller than in 2004. Given inflation during this year, it is more than clear that the authorities of Zajecar municipality will not be able to function normally. When I say normally, I mean very modestly, because it is more than modest means to meet the daily needs of the people of Zaječar municipality. The problems in Zaječar municipality are more than evident and not so small. There are a large number of unfalted streets, entire settlements are at stake, and there are other municipal problems such as plumbing, sewerage, dumps and the like. Here you had to, I mean the ruling majority, take into account or learn through party colleagues, the finance minister from Zaječar, I mean the G17 plus, what is the situation in the Zaječar economy, what is the real degree of development and the rest, everything that makes the criteria for determining the height of these funds in 2005 for the Zaječar municipality. Taking into account the fact that there are debts to commercial banks that have to return in 2005, I am sure that since the normal functioning of Zaječar municipality will be nothing in the following year. With this proposal, you have definitely shown that more of your commitment to decentralisation is just a declarative nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10296	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and let MP Zoran Antic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10297	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the DOS government climbed Serbia and the Serb people before they came, promised hills and valleys. They promised streams of honey and milk, and today not only is there no milk, there is no stream, and they ruined it. The other day, Minister Dinkic appeared, and as Santa, he shared three A4 formats with the towns and municipalities this little church, and he was so full of himself that he was pulling out of his pocket, not giving people's money. Remember, before we passed the VAT law, it was then said that local self-government would raise much less funds, and that they would make it up to cities through the distribution of VAT, or government through distribution of VAT funds. Today we see that local self-governments have lost a good part of the source of income, that all the money in Dinkic, that is, in his ministry, and that he is more willing than any other budgets to share with the few cities that were to be divided, and thus introduce a discrepancies among the city's representatives, even here in parliament, so there are hundreds of amendments, take off from here, add to this city, remove from Belgrade, add to the King, remove from the King, and add Valjevo. And no one thought to ask, well, Minister Dinkic, where you planned all the other money and how local self-government would live, how you think local self-government lives, and we all know what our roads are like, we all know, because we all come to Belgrade, you see that Belgrade is missing at least two rings, at least two bridges so that this traffic jam can be overcome and so is with all the cities. Therefore, a little money, squeezed Dinkic's bag, the cities remain to camp, to survive only, though, he promised, if there is a need and if there is money, he will give extraordinary divisions to some cities, again to some cities, and not to all, to assign something else. There is no city here in this paper in Kosovo and Metohija, no Serbian city where Serbs live, which means Minister Dinkic of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija wrote off. There is another fact, given that the transfer funds are given from January to December, the question is how many cities and what he has allocated will be given. The steam is small, they're unevenly distributed and there's another fact you've probably noticed. In all the cities where the last local elections of the SRS came to power, take last year's distribution, take the revenues that local self-governments in those cities made before the VAT was introduced and before they come into effect from New Year's Eve and take this division now and you'll see how much money these cities have been cut off for. In all, this year's local self-government will be far worse than the previous one, and it was worse than the previous one, and we will all be back by 2000 since it sailed democracy into Serbia. The government, of course, won't be missing a hair on its head. Dinkic will continue, when he explains the laws here, to wave papers in awe, and I think it is clear to us here and the citizens of Serbia that the time has come for new elections, the time has come for the Serbian authorities to take over the fair, honorable, honest, or that the wheel is taken over by Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10298	The People's Messenger Zoran Antić has the word, and let the Messenger Milan Škrbić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in any case, I would agree with my predecessors who are unhappy with this bill. It is obvious that the criteria are not the ones to be allocated these funds. It is obvious that the same republican budget has a more serious increase than the local self-government budgets and the billmaker had to equalise local self-government and local budgets with the republican budget, because it seems fair to me. In this way, local self-government remains to significantly increase their incomes, if they want to stay in that revenue plan as the minister has exposed it to all of us here, and in order to do so, they will most likely have to go at higher prices, which in the coming year, which is so inflational, will be very bad to affect the economy of these cities. I must, like my colleagues, say a few words about the Pomoravlje, as I come from the Pomorava, say that it is obvious that these great cities, Jagodina and Paracina are being neglected by this plan, namely that there are slightly less resources for them than the Republic average would be necessary, but by the circumstances, the Svilajnac is damaged in this proposal, because I do not consider it a developed municipality. If it was already going to help underdeveloped or less-developed municipalities, then there was no reason that, when it comes to Svilajnac, it was going with a slightly lower budget than before, given that in the city, Democrats in power and in the previous four years have completely ruined the economy. On this criterion, I'd say whether we want to or not, we have to change the criteria. Obviously, here is mentioned on March 15th as the date when some rebalancing or some control should be carried out, and all that is fine, I think MPs support it, but what is the fact, which is that these underdeveloped municipalities, these changes of criteria, possibly some new means that would be provided for these underdeveloped municipalities won't help much. I think the increase in funding to underdeveloped municipalities is the escape of the government from the responsibility it must have towards underdeveloped municipalities, and we've had such a policy for decades behind us and it's proven that the money itself isn't enough for some of the municipalities from underdeveloped status to be at least medium-developed. There is much more to be done, first of all, to have one regional economic development strategy. We don't have that strategy. Unfortunately, we don't have a strategy for economic development at all, because for four years we've been dealing with monetary policy, privatisation, macro-economics, and on development policy, on the development of our economy, there's no question. In order to interest the government that the problem of poor, undeveloped municipalities is more serious, I want to say that this demographic image in undeveloped municipalities is a very bad, even demographic image in all municipalities of Serbia is very bad. We only have about 25% of inhabited places where we have an increase in the rate of natural growth, but this is very badly reflected in undeveloped municipalities. For underdeveloped municipalities is a major problem and education. They do not have enough educational personnel to launch these municipalities, as well as the carelessness of the previous ones, as well as these governments, and when it comes to the agriculture of the underdeveloped municipality, it has put them in a rather difficult position. Most of these underdeveloped municipalities live on agriculture or from the processing that monitors that agriculture and the poor situation in agriculture have led to large migrations from these municipalities. You have had the opportunity to read in the daily newspaper that we have large migration from all border municipalities and from all undeveloped municipalities to developed centres. Without a serious regional development strategy, we will certainly not help these municipalities. Without stimulating tax policy, without transfer of knowledge and capital to these underdeveloped municipalities, there is no solution for their economic development, which is, I am sure, and of national interest - that all citizens in Serbia are in a situation that they have the same standard, regardless of which municipality they live. My appeal, in the end, would be for the government in any case and the Resort Ministry to devote a lot more to the development of undeveloped municipalities, not to run away from responsibility, not to ease our conscience by potentially increasing our budgets. It certainly won't solve the problem of undeveloped municipalities, and if we don't say what I did in the next period, we'll be in a situation where in the next year we'll be persecuted and beaten from hollow to empty, dissatisfied with the distribution of funds, and that certainly shouldn't be the goal of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10300	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić, and let Milos Disic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about these laws, I have to notice a series of problems that will follow the application of these laws, which occurred in the earlier period. The SRS parliamentary group has warned earlier about the problems that will arise right now when we talk about these laws. Let's remember the discussion of the SRS MPs when the VAT law was passed. The SRS parliamentary group was not against passing the law, but it said it needed to be handled well, so that it would actually come to life. Because we are witnessing that here in the Assembly, in fact, the parliamentary majority, is passing laws that are not good and that cannot live and apply. So, we were in a hurry to pass this VAT bill, and so are these laws, and now we're in a situation where it's hard to comply with all the following laws, as well as this law and the VAT law. The VAT law will take effect on 1 January 2005 and that is the fact. And you see, when we talk about transfer funds, the criteria by which the transfer funds are determined and calculated are absolutely not good, and we all knew that, as well as the minister, and we are now in a hurry to pass that law, which is not good. The minister agreed with the fact that these criteria are not good. I have an example of the calculation methodology of the transfer funds, examples of Belgrade, Arangelovac and Iriga were taken, and among other things, the calculation of transfers to unique criteria, and it is stressed that the input parameters are etc. These are some criteria that existed before, but I would only appeal now - although we have agreed that these criteria will all be fixed together, that we will bring some real criteria by 31 March 2005 - that in these criteria we have to put something else, very important for many municipalities: these criteria must contain, in addition to the other existing ones, and the mandatory number of exiled and avoided persons. We have many municipalities that in their midst for many years have a large number of refugees and exiled persons, and they themselves, in addition to the economy that does not work, simply have no income, burden the municipality and only the municipality has big problems as regards exiled and evasive faces. Secondly, as we are also witnessing that many municipalities in Serbia are prone to elemental disasters, let's say when it comes to earthquakes, blast areas, disasters, and one of the criteria would have to be for these municipalities - elemental disasters, that is to say, to enter into this criterion according to unique criteria. Thirdly, the areas that have been bombed in NATO aggression, we are witnessing that these are destroyed areas, that the destroyed infrastructure, the economy has been destroyed, and here for many years there has been no progress, that these municipalities are in a very bad situation and are certainly poor, and in the account of the amount of the transfer they will also be damaged. Because under this system of large municipalities they'll have a place to replace that tax, and these small, undeveloped ones don't, because their economy doesn't work. What else could I say? Well, if these criteria are not taken into account by many municipalities in Serbia, they will be damaged by the reckoning. We all agreed that the law was new, unarranged, and that the real state would only show up in two or three months. That's probably why it's supposed to be, and the minister himself predicted it, because he knew this law wasn't good, he predicted 200 million additional budgets from the budget fund, precisely for those small, poor municipalities. That 200 million will be replaced by gambling taxes. I say, these funds are also planned by the budget fund and the SRS parliamentary group because of this uncertainty, because of the imposition of some laws that we know are not good, and we are bringing them, they are simply afraid and doubting that there will be a stalemate and a problem with the transfer of those funds. Now I'm going to say openly that the administration, not only the minister and the follow-up services, but also the administration in the ministries, is simply not doing its jobs. That also applies to the Ministry of Finance. That's why we suspect that there will be a stalemate over the transfer of these funds and vomiting to the municipalities. Why am I saying this? Well, the slowness of the administration is evident, regardless of the drastic increase in the number of employees in the state apparatus, and we know that in the last three or four years, from about 8,000 to twenty-seven thousand. So drastically increasing, and so ineffective service and administration in various ministries, as well as in the finance ministry. The suspicion of us Serbian radicals is certainly justified. When we recently discussed, let us remember, about the law and guarantees related to the housing fund, there were so many praises in the law, remember - housing loans, credits for adaptation, young couples will be able to raise these loans, etc. And what exactly is going on today? This is what happens, that we in the SRS parliamentary group receive daily letters, phone calls, faxes in which we are urged to ask Mr. Minister - why no clear instructions are given to business banks how to currently place long-term loans precisely for housing, for these housing loans and adaptations. Banks are simply afraid of ex post controls because they are not given clear instructions for handling, and even approved loans are not realised. I can give you a series of banks, and the freshest example is this morning's conversation with Raiffeisen Bank. Mr. Secretary isn't here, but I'd like to address one question and make one finding. Based on all of this, it's logical to artificially retain the benefits of these loans in order to preserve the rate of dinars and inflation. It's facts, it's logic. On the other hand, we have a demagogue story that insists on the market economy. The ineffectiveness itself, I will repeat that, administrations, i.e. I will give an example of the Municipality of Apatin, which, by chance, is in a favourable position compared to many other municipalities, because it has kept one part of the economy, let's say the Apatian brewery and some other companies, but there is one misunderstanding of the administration when we asked for the Apatin to become a centre for VAT administration. In this year, Apatine has taken taxes of over six billion. We belonged to a municipality that's three times our size, but it's more than 30% less tax collected and we belong as a municipality to them. A third municipality, which is also twice as large, together does not collect taxes as the municipality of Apatin itself. We spoke to the Ministry, but we didn't get an answer. We wanted Apatine to become the center of administration. Four years ago, the tax administration building was completed, in a well-covered area, the electricity was divorced, and for four years it has been falling apart. We also spoke to this ministry, to finish this building together, which will become part and property of the Ministry of Finance, and also become a centre for VAT administration. We haven't got any answers yet. The new year is near, the law is being applied, and that is why I focused this criticism on this slow administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10302	The People's Messenger Milos Disic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milivoje Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has set out to pass these laws speedily. We warned that maybe it wasn't the right time and that he'd have big problems. Pressure laws are passed, we don't know whose, and we don't know why, but all we know is that Serbia is getting into bigger and bigger problems. We, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, are for good laws to be passed, of which the Republic of Serbia and its citizens will benefit the most. In this law, and this is about the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia's transfer funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, Mr. Minister, we have carefully listened to you in your address to MPs about all your moves and criteria that were important for determining the amount of funds that will be returned from the Republic's budget to cities and municipalities. You have even predicted that for the weaker municipalities, or poor, that even after this they will not have enough funding, they will make donations from the funds derived from gambling. So you're aware that this law is not a good law, that there will be problems and difficulties, and in this law you've predicted that such funds are being allocated to weaker municipalities. We believe that local self-government will have very, very difficult problems and that by self-financing from your intended funding parameters, only the taxpayers will have to bear all the burden on their backs. In the Indjia municipality, there are many refugees, some of whom have received the status of exiled persons and some of the citizenship. Anyway, most of them are on the back of the folk kitchen and the Red Cross. Some of them got better, and they got better, and they opened up companies, and they got a job. Transfer funds are very small to meet the needs of the city, social firms do not have the strength to supplement the budget of the municipality belonging to the municipality in the 5% sale. She had a lot of Inji companies she trusted and hoped for. However, all these companies are underprivileged and can no longer be sold today. I mention some of them, which were the basis of the development of the Indji municipality: "Panonia", "Agrounia", "Inteks", "Vojvod's product", "Juvitana" and others that are not worth anything today, except to get individuals of great money and rich at the expense of society through such companies. There are other dangers, and Indjia doesn't ask much but to save the present crime. Municipal authorities in the previous term have impoverished the municipality of Indji in multimillion amounts. I'm going to give you examples today where you've been taking aids and the Indjia municipality has come into order of undeveloped municipalities, which used to be one of the best municipalities since the time of that post-war Yugoslavia. I will tell you the crimes of the then and present president of the Indji municipality, who took money from the Indji municipality's budget for his travels, does not cover any travel around the world. I wanted the minister to be here to show it to him and give him one copy, and I'm all saying on behalf of the Indji municipality to send a budget inspection to get this information, and I'm going to pass on a document like this. At its session, held at the time of 30 January 2002, the Indji Municipality Assembly's survey board gave the then Assembly and the committees the report, where at the height of 300,000 marks, which the president of SO then, and unfortunately the present one, rose from the So Indji cash register; these are means for travel to Banja Luka, Vienna, Italy, USA, Tyrol, and again Vienna, Denmark, Osijek, Austria, again Tyrol, and there is no cover for such trips and the Indji municipality of this segment has been damaged over 300 thousand marks. I'd like to draw your attention to the self-delivery of the Indji municipality, which was called in 2000. For the first six months alone, we have information about this self-delivery, at a time when the socialist government in India reported on the self-dependence. During the July 1st to 31st 2000 reports, funds amounting to 3,230,635,57 dinars were made available on this basis. By taking over the DOS after October 5th, every trace of this self-delivery has been lost, the bank has been changed, the giro accounts have been changed and no reports have been reported until today. If we had over three million funds collected for the first six months of 2000, these funds grew in proportion to the increase in personal incomes and imagine what these assets are today, and that the Indjia municipality and its citizens have no insight into such things. I am prepared to give this document to the Minister, all in the name of sending a budget inspection, so that they can examine the spending of the Indji municipality's budget and resources. Maybe India wouldn't need this 60 million-dollar redistribution and a refund of transfer funds, just so there aren't any criminal authorities in the Indji municipality. The municipal budget is over 85%, and we know that only 20% is allowed by law. There are criminal charges, but there's no responsibility for such actions. I can give you another set of examples here, but I don't want to bother you with that. We ask the Minister and the Ministry to send a budget inspection to the Indji municipality urgently and to rescue the Indji municipality from further abduction. And not to mention the great commissions of the directors of public and municipal enterprises, when people get in the tender to build regional sewers, that these people are looking for millions of fees and such cloudy actions that we have evidence and that we're going to offer to the Ministry, and we've also written criminal reports, and there's nothing. This time I'll call those in charge. In the Indjia municipality, there has been no public prosecutor for two years, a prosecutor who would prevent such machinations and is consciously doing so in agreement with municipal authorities, and I do not know who is from the government and the government in charge of such agreements with the heads of the Indji municipality. These days, we are witnessing that in the Indjia municipality, the criminal furniture of the people of Old Paz is passing for advisors to the president of the Indji municipality and to the advisors of the commissioners. Those who have lost power in Old Paz are moving to India. The Indjia is becoming a soft crime, and I would ask you that all those who have the will, the strength, and who can prevent something like that, be taken into their minds and prevent the kidnapping of this little social capital that exists, to redistribute those funds where necessary. I don't mean to bother you any longer, but I'd like to ask the minister, if he needs these documents, we'll give you an insight.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10304	The word has the People's MP Milivoje Vukovic, and let it be prepared for Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10305	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, according to all the criteria taken into account when regulating the volume of funds for certain municipalities, I believe that the amount of funds foreseen for the municipality of Bogatic is not enough for a number of reasons. First of all, my municipality is more agricultural than an industrial area, and I cannot expect the estimated income from the income tax. In existing social enterprises, only one of them is privatized, and it is not doing very well, while the other social enterprises have been undefined for several years. Workers do not receive personal income for months, and therefore incomes are lagging behind. The dairy industry in Bogatic, which is second in Serbia, is also in a very difficult state and it is a matter of days when it will be closed. It is therefore a large number of workers who are irregularly receiving very low personal incomes, and many have lost their jobs. In order to provide jobs for them, I think the best part of the funds would be to focus on agricultural production, i.e. in irrigation systems and in the exploitation of warm waters, which are very much in Machva and which are by virtue and the coefficient of exploitation among the best quality in the world. That is why I call on all the responsible people in the government from this booth, and first the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, to take much more care of the masculine peasant. I have to say that the minister has been in Machva twice and spoken nicely, but we have nothing out of a good story. The thermal waters continue to flow into recovery and are untapped. In the last few years, Neplan’s exploitation of gravel has taken over 30 hectares of farmland in the defenceless area, and in the tax solution of farmers, the biggest item is the disposal fee. This year, over three thousand hectares were flooded in the municipality of Bogatic. Swords need money and every penny invested in the Sword State will return triple, given the natural potential of the Sword. So I appeal once again to all the responsible people in the government, if, however, there are, to imagine how much wealth we have untapped, not just by that people's saying, "God gives us, and the government doesn't." What's most urgent right now is the completion of the initial sewer system. There is still a few miles of main water left to be completed and a secondary network. It'll be very difficult without the help of the state. Namely, the declared self-delivery of citizens expired, and the funds collected were not enough to complete the said sewer system. I'm afraid this big project doesn't pass as a famous spa in Machva, which was built before the opening even 20 years ago, and it's not open until the day of today, but on the contrary, it's been destroyed and what was built by then and now it's back to the beginning, and maybe from the beginning. I'm afraid it stopped halfway again. Not to mention what this system of sewers means for the Sword, which lies on a huge supply of hot water, which is polluted by a large number of septic pits. The drinking water is also polluted and very few wells would pass sanitary control. Then we don't have to wonder why in Machva, according to official statistics, the largest number of tuberculosis and kidney disease sufferers. Why don't we stick to the saying "better to stop than to heal," but we always do it backwards. Instead of investing in good projects and making the environment healthier, we invest money later in our failures, i.e. to treat diseases caused by our reckless behavior and environmental pollution. How long? I therefore appeal to the Serbian government that the amount of funding provided for in the municipality's law increase by 10 million, in order for the basic functions of local self-government to be achieved uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10306	The word is given to the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, and let Tihomir Đuričić be prepared. Mr. Perry, you have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10307	Dear Mrs Pop-Lazic, ladies and gentlemen, I was convinced that the minister, Mr Dinkic, would make a fair distribution of funds from the budget to municipalities in Serbia. As indicated in the proposal, it didn't happen. In an opening statement, the minister said the funds were shared by old criteria. When it looks a little bit better and sees how it was in 2002, 2003 and 2004, it appears that the minister expanded the criteria and added a new party. I agree that it should, but I think it should be applied to the party where it is a member, not to the citizens of Serbia. With such a proposal, the minister applied our old saying "who has added to it, who has not taken everything away from him". I will not speak and list the municipalities and cities that the minister has rewarded, because it does not allow me to have a parliamentary culture, but I must say and mention the municipalities where the minister has gravely sinned. My Merošina, then Doljevac, Gajin Han, Žitoraj, Kursumlija, Blace, Prokuplje, Razanj, some municipalities from the wooded and pyrotic district, which means that it remains "the further south, the sadder". We all know in the O.R., Serbia is not great, which is a municipality like this. According to the proposal, all undeveloped municipalities in Serbia were given less than we had in 2004. I'll give you one example. The Meroshin municipality last year owes seven million dinars for electricity, and all last year's commitments are over 15 million dinars, which means that with the 15 million that the minister gives us, we need to disburse. And what about 2005, how do we survive? That's true, and that's the same situation in all undeveloped municipalities. The municipalities that received more money from the budget will also receive a programme from the Ministry – for roads, schools, halls, fountains, etc. Since you've been in power since 2000, no programme has gone to poor municipalities. In the end, I am now fully aware of how this power works. On the Finance Committee, the mayor of Belgrade, Mr Bogdanovic, voted in favour of all our amendments, although we propose to take a little away from Belgrade and to the poor municipalities, because he understands what this is about. That's why I thank him. I have no idea how the other members of the Committee could vote against helping poor municipalities. What's this all about, what fear does it have and who rules at all? This can draw a conclusion, we support the DSS, the party Vojislav Kostunica, and Kostunica supports the DS-Boris Tadic, which continues to rule in Serbia. I must admit that there was a good amendment to Mr. Radojko Obradovic, where the 2004 funding is proposed to increase by a certain percentage, at this point the most just. As I see it, that amendment will be withdrawn, as always by Kostunica's prescription. If Mr Obradovic does not withdraw his amendment, I call on MPs to vote in favour of the amendment to correct the injustice that has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10308	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The People's Messenger Tihomir Đuričić has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The word has an MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with these two laws, it's only a matter of order, that according to the daily work of the Law on Local Self-Government, there is before this second. Otherwise, the session they're in is wrong and these two laws shouldn't be held in the same session. The Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. Amendments and Supplements, was to be passed at one session before, because this other law on funds transferred to a practically member of this law, so that this law on local self-government was used by the ministry before we adopted it in the Serbian Assembly. In this way, the right of MPs is denied to declare each law individually. In the day of the vote, a hypothetical situation may happen not to vote amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, therefore there is no point in declaring itself on this second law, because here the funds transferred from the Republic's budget to municipalities and cities in Serbia are provided for in Article 3 of the Law on Local Self-Government ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 9/02, 33/04 and nothing/04). So it's nothing like this law that we haven't passed, based on which article 3 of the Transfer of Assets Act was made. I think that should be taken into account by MPs who support the government, because that's not good. It often happens that MPs face a final act when it comes to voting. I will comment, without wanting to give my conclusions on how the funds were tailored and how the funds were allocated, but I will comment on a large number of amendments by Members of the People's Parliament to Article 3 of the Transfer of Assets Act and exactly how the amendment could be seen from which city or municipality comes which MP, and most of the amendments concerned that a part of the funds should be taken away from the city of Belgrade and that it should be allocated to some other municipalities. I wasn't lazy to do one bill and a total of 13.8 billion out of the budget, 40.6% going to the city of Belgrade, 59.4% going to all other cities and municipalities in Serbia. Since Belgrade has 16 municipalities, Surcin is 17th, and in the rest of Serbia there are 140 municipalities, plus in these cities several, about 150 approximately, the ratio is 10-1. Given that the budget is 40:60, about eight times the funds are allocated to Belgrade municipalities than they are to municipalities in the interior. I'll give you an example of Obrenovac, Lazarec and Mladenvec and try to compare them with Loznica, Trstenik and Negotina. That is enough for most MPs to know the essence of the amendments submitted by the MPs. I will not make any further conclusions based on this, although the minister said MPs are charging with how much funds Belgrade has received. It's not about any charges, I said it's about pure math. I will not individually comment on how much the municipality will receive, but I think the criteria applied by the Law on Local Self-Government, or by supplementing the law to make this distribution of funds, and I think that in these criteria, in Article 5 concerning amendments to Article 99, there has to be something called the Border Community and it has to be budgeted to make at least 10% more of what is given. It should be for those municipalities located at the borders that these funds are intended, for example, for various programmes that would be implemented in villages, right next to the border with other countries, for the reason that we should keep the population in those areas, because the border is best defended by the population held in the area. And you look at the demographic data and you will see that Serbia's border area has completely relaxed, among other things, because there is no stimulating policy by the state to keep citizens in these border areas. Look at the statistics. You will see that most of the poorest municipalities are those located in the edge areas of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are other criteria to be introduced, I don't think the minister hit everything that's important, even though he applied the criteria before we adopted them. Of course, there is also an important number of evasive and displaced faces. Finally, it is also important that Serbia must say through some law what its national interest is, so it could be said that some municipalities will receive more funding for reasons of being the national or other strategic interests of the Republic of Serbia. He avoided saying that in the law, although look at the budget for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, you will see that it was applied, which I have nothing against. More money should be given because it is of strategic interest, but it should not be ashamed to introduce it into the law and says it is the national interest of Serbia, and that some municipalities are given more funding, at least when it comes to budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10310	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović. The remaining SRS time is seven minutes. Here you go. That's how we exhaust the list of registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to address you as the President of Pozeg Municipality, who is due to adopt the 2005 budget in three days. You can see for yourself that we're discussing these assets today, and I've already had to plan for the municipal budget, and I can tell you that I've already had one failure at all. In fact, I expected my municipality to have more funds returned from the Republic, that is, under this transfer of funds law. The municipality of Požega has been allocated about 39 million, and in conclusion with ten months of sales tax, as previously called, we already had about 76 million. So, almost twice as much is normally assigned to us by this law. If I were to say something about a profit tax, I have to say that the government has improved and increased it from 30% to 40%, but if we have in mind what kind of profits these are and what they are, it's a very small gross income in the municipality's budget. So, on the one hand, the VAT, which increases the sales tax, we're sort of assigned to the Republic, and what's about minimum earnings, for poor economics, for bad lives, it's kind of raised to establish some balance. But right away, I'm telling you that there is no balance. If I were to absorb all of what my colleagues were saying, I could only say one fact, which is that this is a caliber of laws, of injustice, so that's what it is. I've been listening to everything, I've heard everything, and everyone's saying that their municipalities are very little approved. The SRS has taken the view that it will not submit amendments to these two laws, because we do not want to spill funds from one municipality to another, because all citizens of Serbia are equally important and important to us. However, the basic thing about this is that people expect to live better and have capital investments. We have the Ministry of Capital Investment, but capital investments are related to the local level. From that job, these capital investments at the local level are nothing, precisely because these assets are very small and low. I think this could have been solved in many ways. The methodology for which the government and the proposing have decided is completely wrong. We should have agreed as presidents of municipalities, and also here as parliamentarians at the level of parliamentary groups, or parliamentary groups, as well as in what way to distribute these funds. So, the session on this was supposed to come down to the vote, and the consensus was to be reached outside of this room. This is how all the citizens and all the public, including the Europe in which you swear, hears us accusing each other and how we say that the funds should be spilled, that some are very, very few, etc. Such a system of work and such a methodology decided by the promoter is not good, above all, not timely. This was supposed to be done a long time ago. If the proposal has decided that Serbia's budget should be passed a few days before 15 December, it must know that local communities respect the law and that local self-government must do so before 15 December, and December 15th is on Wednesday. That's why I said, the material that was stored and that went to the councils, I mean my community, contains some other figures and some other percentages. Who's going to be responsible, you know, but it's hard, it's very hard to explain to the public at a local level. So when you make laws like this, you put yourself in the role of one of the presidents of the municipality and don't look at which party, from which political group, you see it as just a man who's got the trust of the people to do something. With this kind of action, you will absolutely question the functioning of local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10312	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just going to briefly bring down the debate of the SRS MPs on this item of the agenda, because I think we need to repeat once again to the Serbian citizens what this is all about. There are many municipalities in Serbia, and only one government. I've already participated 13 times in the work of a session where the government decides how much funds it will give, once it was a percentage of the sales tax on the territory of the municipality or the city, and now it's a new methodology due to a brand-new way of accounting and tax and profit. Never before, just like these two days, SRS MPs have submitted amendments that would require that the municipality in which they participate in government provide some greater income, because there was always the other part of the story, and who to whom to take, because the funds are in Serbia. If you're looking for Lapovo municipality, you have to say, will you take Vranya, someone else? The minister dealt with it easily with many MPs here, he spoke, wrote amendments to download to Belgrade. I'm not into it either, I'm not about to take anything off any city, I'm just about to establish fair criteria. That is why our MPs discussed in principle, told you what the situation is in the environments from which they come, even though they tried to influence you there to help these municipalities, regardless of who is in power there, because there the authority that decides on the funds first looks at the municipalities in which its representatives or the presidents of the municipalities are either directly affecting life, trying to secure maybe another mandate in those local self-governments. This law does not provide for these mandates. That is why we will not take part in the vote on the bill. That is why we leave your conscience: as you agreed, so it will be in Serbia. As long as you don't have clear criteria, as long as the criteria are listed only by points, until you have worked out how much funds, developed, undeveloped, agricultural - industrial city, university center, population level, how much childcare it takes, how much social protection, until it's diluted, while it's just dazzling, many in Serbia will be unhappy. I suppose there are some from G17 plus who exercise power and who are now dissatisfied at the bar and I don't believe that everything was satisfied by the minister, although he had the opportunity. We'll see if he's wrong. Don't accidentally determine now that we get to the figure that G17 plus was privileged. Take good care of that. I warned you not to touch the Serbs, and yesterday you changed the director, it's going to cost you a lot, and you know it. It will cost you a lot of political value here, the MPs from G17 plus, you only follow a few of your individuals. You don't have your attitude, you don't have your own opinions, you're involved in dirty work, and I'm afraid you've got yourself dirty. Prove to me that you didn't. As far as this law is concerned, try to secure most of it, but for the record, you've caused dissatisfaction in many municipalities. No great dissatisfaction has been expressed, for people do not know what these funds are. They can only assume, but once the inflow begins and when they see what they're all denied for, you'll certainly have dissatisfaction directed against the finance minister and then against the entire government. No government minister will be able to hide and say, I had no idea, it was the finance minister. This depends on local self-government, this depends on democracy in Serbia. As you finance local self-government, you have so much decentralisation and you know it very well. I would like it not to come down from Belgrade into the mud, not to go out of Belgrade to the province, to get out of Kragujevac in the mud, not to go out of Novi Sad into the mud. I'd like you to raise the level of those underdeveloped, and for those who last year have changed the asphalt in front of the house, let them wait a few years. There are those who have not seen the asphalt since the war, except when they come into town and you have to take care of it, of those who have lost their factory, who are facing the village, and you have almost destroyed the village. And your last measures have brought the village to nothing and it will feel this year. That's why the ruling majority that has to work on Saturdays wanted to work tonight, so they can pass this important law, and you only do it because there's a list of speakers, not because you think it's important this point, I warn you, all municipalities are waiting for this law. Now imagine the municipalities that within a few days have to calculate how much you give them and think only how they're going to get caught by the heads of those who see that you've given less than they did last year. If Serbia is making progress, if the budget is much bigger than it was, it is possible that some municipality will get less funds than it did last year. We will never fall into a trap to try municipalities where people value us as those who exercise power, to secure better incomes. Never, I guarantee you, know that and our coalition partners what it was like when we were in the Serbian government. You didn't take care of it. You've had amendments. Some of the amendments have given up. There's something you've been picking up on Belgrade too much and it's not good. Don't look at Belgrade just by who's in power at the moment. The authorities come and go, and the cities stay, and the people remain in them. Now, that was our motive to discuss this point of the agenda this much, but there was no basis for replication. We were just bringing up problems and warning you what problems you would make if you were wrong, and obviously you were wrong. There's no minister when it comes to this law. He's not in the O.R. He's not going to have the president of the municipality, who doesn't belong to G17 plus, ask him a question - what about his municipality. He's here when he's supposed to praise the Ministry of Finance. When he's supposed to defend him, he's not in the O.R. That's when he brings in the clerks who don't belong here. The minister must be prepared to defend the law, not the clerks. Because if the clerks defend the law, then we don't need ministers. Let's make an official government, Parliament and government officials cooperate. Such an important law, and without the presence of the finance minister. And don't make me believe he has other obligations today. Today is Saturday for him and for us. The minister left for the weekend today. If only he'd run on that weekend, if he hadn't grown so much, then there'd be some use for it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10314	Mr. Albianucciu, Mrs. Cekovic called. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10315	So, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the criteria for the distribution of funds to local self-government need to be further established. It is also true that local self-governments must take responsibility for the jobs they do and that the money they have domestically. I'm going to give a simple example, since I worked at school, I know that the material resources for schools are now set aside by local self-government, and to a large extent the municipalities don't carry out their obligations to schools in those environments. So, in a certain way, local self-government must put themselves in a position to have responsibility for the things they need to do, or have to do them in the best possible way, and in the interests of the citizens, of course. Mr. Nikolic, I don't know why you're being so "Serbishum." The government of the Republic of Serbia appointed the director "Serbishum", and was resolved by the government of the Republic of Serbia. And as for G17 plus, whoever does not meet the standards and conditions to work responsibly, to work professionally, to work on the welfare of all people, he will be removed. Not just this director, but any of the others, anywhere, if he doesn't carry out the obligations we require of him. And as for local self-government, you know with certainty that today, five or six times the budget of local self-government is higher than it was at the time when you held, supported or already don't know what you were doing with that government. If I wasn't to give an example, there's no need, how do you host the budget, and I wouldn't want to mention this time the Zemun in which you ruled, the way you ruled.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10316	According to the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10317	I know you're not well prepared for the assembly debate, and I'm guessing that the MP group has the capacity to answer questions and I'm not the target of the G17 plus reckoning. The bill with you is over. They're just waiting for the election. You've done your job, but I'm sorry you're still affecting what's going on in Serbia. And why shouldn't I get "Serbishum"? Don't you think I might have some interest in financials? No, just a moral interest. It's just moral. The reasons you listed for the Director's shift are so it could be a bigger profit. Watch out for his mother, figure out someone to make a bigger profit. Neither the company does business with loss, nor is there any theft, nor has the disturbed human relationship been until yesterday. I don't know why. They've been disturbed since yesterday. They're all on one side, and G17 plus on the other. And the fact that Vojislav Kostunica allows you to hack, to do Serbia will cost Vojislav Kostunica. That you know from the DSS. It will cost Vojislav Kostunica and all of you because Milosevic cost JUL. Kostunica's gonna cost a G17 plus. As for Zemun, why don't you tell us about Zemun? The first next election -- we're back in power in Zemun. And in 1997, when we won power, here is Gordana Pop-Lazic, who can correct me, only since the 32nd polling place in Zemun we had most; 32 seats in the centre and a little closer to the centre were for some other options. And please, the chairman, from which polling stations we are now in the majority. From?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10318	Of the 13th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10319	From number 13. But I won't rest until we're in most of Zemun. Because if we were bad in Zemun, we'd never go back to power again. Because you see that the bad never return to power again. Only good ones return to power. Because democracy is it. It's a multiparty. The good ones can lose the election, but they know they can go back to power. Only the bad never return to power again. Only little blackmailers never return to power again. Because Serbian citizens appreciate who's big, who's thinking about the state, who's small and thinks about themselves. If Vojislav Kostunica can explain to Serbia that G17 plus should run the "Serbishum", then this state has nothing, then this country will quickly fail. And since you're already... They're because of JUL. Well, that's why the failed state that JUL led. Sure, but you're a JUL plus. And since you're replacing the incompetent, what about the Secretary of Defense? What about the Secretary of Defense? How much does he cost this community of ours? What's he doing at work now? What's the press doing with the Secretary of Defense? What does tens of millions of euros say? Come on when you're so honest. You're replacing non-partisan personalities with "Serbishama", non-partisan. No one's man is. Your government seems to have set him up. It doesn't belong to anyone politically, just to the profession. You're replacing the man behind who's got all the waist. Who are you bringing? The man who's leading three other counselors to know how to get into that building. That's what's gonna happen now. And you know what "Serbiasum" is, "Serbijavod", do you know what it is, so that's Serbia. You'll get into that Serbia, you'll take the lead. I made a promise to the Serbian public, until we adopt the constitution that there will be no snap elections, but, God, I'm telling you from the DSS, we need to get you out of this ballast as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10320	Replica, Mr. Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10321	Mr. Nikolic, I did declare that the first constitution, then elections. As far as G17 plus is concerned, it could be the election, then the constitution. We don't care. We're ready for the election, and we're ready to go to the election game. As far as JUL is concerned, you've produced these phantoms. We didn't make them. They were in the coalition with you, not us. And if we were JUL now, we'd be in a coalition with you, like we're not and we won't be. That's to be clear. Those marketing stories, you know well what the weather was like, and it shouldn't have opened Pandora's box and talked to who you were working with, and how you cooperated, who paid and did what he did, scribbled, hung around, and so on. So all these stories fall into the water. G17 plus is a responsible political party, and what you are calling and trying to do, and you are calling on the DSS to make you a coalition, that's your political stories. So G17 plus is a party that certainly leads Serbia to progress. G17 plus knows what that is. The Government of the Republic of Serbia makes a decision, then you must ask the Government why and how, clearly and explicitly. As for G17 plus don't worry, we'll be stronger and better than you can even imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10322	The word has been made by MP Sanja Cekovic, and I assume as representative of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Cekovic, I don't have a representative in writing here, but I suppose it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10323	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we return to the law. The law on the financing of local self-government is extremely sensitive and I believe that most MPs have objections to the municipalities they come from. It is the obligation of the MPs, whether it is in the ruling coalition or belongs to the opposition. I have to support my colleague from Bor, who made real remarks about the budget when it comes to Bor and Negotin and Majdanpek and Kladov. I know there's been a lot of objections to this law on the Finance Committee, and whose member I am. The basic thing that's a distraction to a more realistic allocation of funds is poorly done criteria. So, the criteria set by the old law. The Financial Committee's conclusion was that, as soon as possible, the law was changed and that the municipalities they had in their population made a high-quality census. In this respect, additional resources are added to the municipalities. However, we have many unknowns, since the funding system is different from January 1st, we have a value added tax, which is still uncertain in which it will fill the budget in this return to local self-government. However, we also have a situation where income tax, an increase from 30% to 40% may not be some tempting size, because in these municipalities it is necessary to earn profits. So it takes business to get that 40%. What encouraged me, which is the conclusion of the Committee on Finance which is next: the Finance Committee has committed to adopt a law on criteria that form the way local self-government will be financed as soon as possible. What is important and what I think will come to the benefit of all local self-government is that the Finance Committee will, by 31 March of the following year, have a cross-supply of the republican and local budgets and, in that sense, act towards those municipalities, to those local self-governments in which there will be a significant charge of funds in a smaller form. The Finance Committee has made a correct commitment, and already on 31 March, it complements everything that is bad in the law against local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10324	Does anyone else appear in accordance with Article 89? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the DS, Mr Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10325	I think it's a good idea to say a few conclusions. First of all, I am surprised by the uninterested finance minister, Mr Dinkic, who appeared here for about half an hour and did not attend this debate on this very important law. Most MPs expressed themselves negatively about him, and he could hear a lot of constructive proposals here and could use it in his further work. I am surprised, too, by the lack of interest of many MPs who have been directly engaged in local self-government and who have not been present or have not engaged enough to pursue together to improve this law. I think there's something else important to mention right now, and that's the AP Vojvodina budget. In fact, Minister Dinkic very strongly attacked the President of the Executive Council, Bojan Pajtic here, from this pay phone, in words that he deceived the province's MPs, who sought the rebalance of the republic's budget and higher funds for the AP Vojvodina. I have a projection ahead of me from the AP Vojvodina Finance Secretariat, which proves that the AP Vojvodina budget is damaged and that, realistically, in 2005, it will achieve some 6% less funds than in 2004. The assumption that an increase in the budget of the province of Vojvodina has been made. Transfer funds from some 13,480,000,000 dinars are generally only transfer funds and the AP Vojvodina budget represents a flow water heater, as the following day they are sent for salaries to educational employees. There was an increase of 20%, but that's the minister's deal with the unions. I think it would be nice if Minister Dinkic and the President of the Executive Council didn't bicker over the papers, but to sit together and discuss these issues, and to put the calculations on the table and to come up with a final solution that will suit citizens in the province of Vojvodina. As far as these two laws we have discussed here on the second, third day, means, the law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and the law on the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget on the participation of municipalities and cities in profit tax, neither in its exposé for these laws nor in its single address, the finance minister has convinced us. We'll stay as DS on what we claimed at the beginning, and that's next. First, that these laws do not allow a decision to be taken on the budget of local self-government within the deadline provided. In fact, many MPs have talked about it here, and one colleague even advised and said, "It doesn't matter," for a while, so we'll do it. However, there is a Bill on the Budgetary System which decidedly prescribes dynamics and procedures to be respected. Today is the 11th and if there is a vote next week we have already broken all deadlines, but the Budget System Law is not respected and will have to go to temporary budget financing for the first three months of the following year, which will surely produce major consequences for direct and indirect budget users. Secondly, what everyone has been saying is that these laws do not provide clear criteria and criteria for the distribution of transfer funds and allow political games and arrangements. In fact, there was a lot of talk about these criteria, small and large municipalities, developed and undeveloped, border and border. Obviously, there are no clear criteria and they are urgently needed. The criterion that was here seems to be the most popular during our work, and it was – take as much as you can to Belgrade and you'll probably get it. Thirdly, which was not assured by Minister Dinkic, and what we advocated and what we claim, it is that the amount of funds in 2005 will be realistically lower by about 6% compared to 2004, which means the total amount for all local self-governments. In fact, over 83 billion dinars of total revenues in local self-government will be realised in a projection received by the Committee on Finance in 2004, and 88 billion are scheduled for 2005. Given that inflation is certainly over 10%, it means budgets will be deprived by about 5% to 6%. We've come to believe that the local budgets will be damaged by more than 10%. The vision that is being created that by increasing the share in profit tax from 30% to 40% of our income is just one projection where it is said that wages will grow much faster than is realistic. Furthermore, our grudge was in the way of transfer and we stay with her. So he's slow. It says one law, the other law says another, and our proposal is that there must be automation, twice a month, as it has been with the sales tax so far. There's been a complete centralization and reduction of local self-government. We remain with this as an attempt by one political party to control all financial flows and local self-governments. The Democratic Party will therefore be against these laws and will not participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10326	Mr. Albianic is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10327	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of truth, must be told the speaker the exact details. The budget of the Duke's AP is 23.4% higher. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is 11% higher. All other stories fall into the water based on these figures. Transfer funds are 27% higher. It is clear that if you look at the salary tax transfer, 40% goes for local self-government, 18% for the province, and the Republic of Serbia's budget remains 42%. How's Serbia in general? The local self-government is 40% and 60% for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Hence, it must be spoken with accurate and valid data, not all for daily and political stories, but for the congregation speaker’s sake. You know well that the finance minister was ready to talk to Pajtic about some future co-operation. Of course, it is the desire for all to increase the Vojvodina budget and local self-government budgets throughout Serbia in the coming years. Of course, but for that there is another premise, another precondition, which is that there is a responsibility in the province's government and in all local self-government to purposely spend the appropriate funds. We can't be opening new secretaries, not knowing who's in control and where the funds are going, but rather need these increased funds to be used on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10328	What's the basis for your call? The replica was, you have no right to replicate again. As an authorised representative, your time is up, you can only get word from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10329	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Mr. Albianic, I didn't mean anything by it. You've also misread that. You were a guest last night at Zrenjanin TV and you said the same thing about this. I've been trying to get into the program or see myself eventually to explain things to you most well-intentionedly. You obviously don't understand this and it's not your fault, it's not your profession. You're a mathematician, as far as I've heard, and that's nice, you should do math, but this isn't simple math. So, mathematically speaking, the AP budget is higher, but it's much larger transfer funds that only go beyond the AP Vojvodina budget and are used to pay the salaries of educational employees. And otherwise 99% of the AP Vojvodina budget is charged from two sources: these are income tax funds and profit tax funds, which means 99% of the budget. The funds, according to the Finance Secretariat of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, will be lower realistically by 6% next year. I also suggested that it would be good for Minister Dinkic to speak to the Executive Greater Vojvodina, as 105 MPs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly required it. Among those 105 is, I think, your five who voted for the same thing. I was just asking him to sit down and make a deal. Maybe that bill's bad, maybe it's not good, but I need you to sit down and deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10330	Mr. Prince, you have abused the Rules of Procedure. Article 106 refers to who makes the decision on a fine for the MP, and please do not do so in the future. Now you have given the right to the replica to Mr Albianic, and I believe this circle of replicas would not have occurred if Mr Dinkic were in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10331	I thank the chairman for her intervention, for his abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So Article 106 speaks of other things entirely. He says to a non-permanent MP in the National Assembly, a fine, etc. So you need to prepare a little more seriously and see what the member means. As for my personal pronunciation that I'm a mathematician, right, and that direction for numerical mathematics, cybernetics and optimization, if you can put all that together so you know what that really means. If you know what the word means, the word itself, the original, the optimization, so you have to take care of the means, the household use, and the introduction of savings, as introduced in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10332	National MP Tomislav Nikolic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10333	I've been called President of the Administrative Board here. So, no punishment for MPs. The Administrative Board will not punish the MPs and we have agreed: either amend the Rules of Procedure or add up, so when someone wants to punish the Members, this meeting of the Administrative Board will not. Now I've heard that you in G17 plus have great experts, which is why you're not going into the profession, and why they rot this capacity here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10334	Right on the line, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10335	Mr. Nikolic, I really think you might be able to start your profession a little bit, in this regard, to help you eventually, Saddam Hussein.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10336	Mr. Nikolic, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10337	If you mean my cemetery profession, that's all I've been doing here for 13 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10338	Since everyone has used their right to Article 89. Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and the Bill on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplementarys of the Law on Local Self-Government (single) You have received the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragoljub Zivkovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Zivodarka Dacin. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Self-Government has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add a new Article 2a after Article 2. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10339	In protest, Saturday is not a working day in parliament, I wear a sweater as a protest, and as you schedule Saturday's session, a sweater dress. Yes, it is. There is a normal parliamentary practice, and this is not a normal parliamentary practice, it is not normal for MPs to spend hundreds of hours in parliament. Mrs. Zivodarka Dacin has submitted an amendment trying to ensure that when citizens say they are self-indulgent, it can be done not only by a direct statement at the polling post, but also by collecting signatures. I want to say it's important and I ask the MPs, my colleagues, to accept it. Self-achieving is a fluid that can be subject to a variety of criticisms, but many buildings, buildings, roads, kindergartens, bridges, important institutions in Serbia have been built by bringing together their resources with budgets or some others and helping to make their little something big for all citizens of a municipality or one state. We live in a country where it is not possible to animate 50 percent of eligible voters to go to elections and it is no problem for the electoral commission to go to one village from house to house and to offer a programme, which is the subject of a self-deposit, to those aged citizens who live in that house and to make a statement on the spot. If this amendment is not accepted, I guarantee it is not possible to issue a self-delivery in Serbia today in no local community. Which one of these benefits? There's no one here. They only have all the damage. I remind you that this practice has existed before. In 1996, the Municipality of Cačak issued such a self-dependence. The MPs from the SP, DS and SRS then sued the municipality of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and lost the dispute, leaving a large bridge on Moravi, several schools, capital investments in the Rzav system and many others. So I call on all fellow Members of the People to respect this amendment. It is very important, giving space to one local community, one local self-government, one city to help major projects with 20.30 dinars per month, to join these funds with other funds. There is a law-based way of controlling the spending of these funds and I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10340	National MP Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10341	People's MPs, on behalf of the SPO-NS, I ask you to support this amendment, because I know there are a lot of people here from local self-government, the president of the municipalities, and they know what self-dependence means. This amendment is good, and SPO-NS MPs will support this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10342	National MP Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10343	On behalf of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group, we fully support the proposal for an amendment from my colleague Dacin, although it is not the most clear technique for how this will be carried out, it should certainly be elaborated further. From these means of self- contribution, above all, local communities and their activities are financed, all of those regular activities, from the financing of secretaries to cultures, sports and the resolution of municipal problems by local communities, to large and large interventions in municipalities and cities, where these poor budgets cannot finance extremely high needs for sewers, hospitals and other actions. Therefore, we as DS will fully support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10344	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10345	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which reads: Article 5(3), paragraph 6) replaces the point with point and comma and adds point 7) which reads: "Number of settlements". For a brief reminder, Article 5 amends Article 99 of the existing Law on Local Self-Government, which contains criteria on how the distribution of transfer funds should be carried out. There have been a lot of discussions on the subject that these criteria do not reflect the needs we have to define the distribution that should be fair and solid, but also to provide conditions for the development of those who do not have these conditions, i.e. to ensure stronger development of developed areas. So our proposal is to introduce a new criterion, which is the number of settlements. This criterion is very important, according to our assessment, because it would prevent a reduction in the number of settlements in Serbia and a reduction of population in certain parts of Serbia, especially in the border municipalities, which is not a good trend and is not good for Serbia's future development. Especially because of this, the Leskovac municipality is at risk. I have also submitted an amendment to the law on the distribution of transfer funds to Article 3 and I have requested an increase in the transfer funds for Leskovac amounting to 40 million, and I have brought all this into contact with this law and the introduction of this new criterion. It's not just Leskovac municipality in that position. There are other municipalities in Serbia that have a very large number of settlements and therefore these municipalities are dysfunctional and grotesque. This is why this is an opportunity to point out and I hope that the people of the Ministry of State and local self-government and the Government will hear these remarks. Indeed, there is reason for a certain number of municipalities to be transferred, to be reduced, and for these municipalities to be more functional than they are. Only one information, the municipality of Leskovac has 144 settlements. It's really very difficult to operate in such a massive community. On this occasion, I would like to add something that is not directly related to our amendment, but is related to the criteria concerning Article 99 of the existing Law on Local Self-Government. No matter what the criteria, I think Belgrade deserves to pass a law on the capital as soon as possible, where the capital's funding would also be defined, because we cannot place all municipalities in Serbia with Belgrade as the capital and as a development factor throughout Serbia. Such a law must be passed, and then, with the improvement of existing criteria, with a clear definition of influential weight factors, or coefficients stemming from these laws, we can look for the best possible solution to finance local self-government, with this model to meet the conditions that I have spoken of, solidarity, justice, but also what we are looking for, and these are the conditions of development.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10346	National MP Jovan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment is meaningful and that the assembly majority should accept it, and not only for the reasons that my colleague spoke of before me, but also because in the existing law, in Article 99, we have a criterion that could somehow relate to the story of the number of settlements. It's the area of the municipality. It seems to me that the number of settlements more precisely determines the position of a certain municipality from all aspects. The number of settlements should be determined by the number of schools, kindergartens, the number of cultural homes, to provide criteria related to the road network, waterway, sewerage, PTT network, etc. It is not possible for the distribution of funds, whether it is transfer funds or others, to take no criterion of the size of the municipality and the number of settlements. There are also municipalities where with a smaller number of inhabited areas it is possible to collect higher incomes than that of municipalities that are widespread, large by area, dissipated, especially those located in mountainous and mountainous areas, which affect a very large area. They also have a small number of settlements, and they have huge needs to address infrastructure problems. Yesterday during the principle debate, I was talking about our need to inevitably approach one serious, radical change in the criteria that we apply in the distribution of these funds. This time I want to underline the need to specifically talk about municipalities that are borderline character, that it is specifically about municipalities that have a large number of refugees in their territory and that in the development of criteria – the degree of development of certain municipalities – we must inevitably have information about the number of employees, the number of unemployed and the average earnings paid in that area, as well as the number of pensioners and the average pensions paid out to these pensioners, regardless of what the pensioners are based on, whether as farmers, whether as pensioners from working relationships. Until we have these parameters seriously in our documents, it is not possible to make any fair distribution of funds. We will constantly have situations that are happening to us in these discussions, that some cheer for their community, that they do not have the moral rights to reduce resources to other municipalities, but we must come up with objective criteria that will lead each municipality into a position to be objectively represented and to solve the biggest problem of its accumulated needs. The SPS parliamentary group will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10348	National MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10349	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the parameters needed to determine the amount of funds in the budget, above all, are the real growth of domestic gross products, which is about 4.5%, and the planned inflation of 9.1%. This is why budget projections are being made, in economic and fiscal policy for next year. When determining the volume of funds by individual positions and divisions, as basic criteria, the number of inhabitants, the area of the municipality, the number of primary and secondary education departments, the number of children covered by child protection, as well as the number of institutions in the fields of culture, sport and social protection. Mr. Zivkovic, speaking of two amendments, I will take the opportunity to give my opinion on both of his amendments. When it comes to the municipality of Leskovac, there is Mr. Zivkovic right, by the size of the territory it affects it is one of the largest municipalities, especially after those who have the status of the city, there are over 1,000 square kilometers and the number of settlements is 144. There should be support for Mr. Zivkovic's amendment to the number of settlements, because by the number of primary schools 22, with an additional 57 open four-week departments, with 12 secondary schools and a centre of education for the entire south of Serbia. In addition, the entire Jablani district is at the very bottom of economic development. The ratio of the average income in the economy compared to the average in the Republic is 1:2. This is why local self-government itself invests significant resources to expand the material base and improve the conditions of education, as well as other areas of social activity. As far as this amendment is concerned, there is nothing questionable about your amendment being supported. However, the second amendment, where you are asking for financial resources to increase for the Leskovac municipality, did not specify which municipalities should be seized from, which is also not legally possible, and you said in your explanation that local self-government would function normally. Since I'm at the office of the president of the assembly, if you've defined that it works better, I could understand the explanation of your amendment, but since during your term of office, when you were the president of the municipality, I don't remember any school being open. Last year alone, three facilities were opened, schools in Dobrotin, Jarsenov, Lower Krajinac. There is an amount of investment of around 11.5 million dinars. Only at school in (incomprehensible) 5,200,000 dinars were invested. In an elementary school in Razgona, 5,000 dinars, in high school, you know she's celebrated 125 years since the founding of school, 4.500,000 dinars, not to mention the town of Graovo in Grdanica, 7,000,000 dinars. Do we need to talk about what needs to be planned and done in 2005? The primary school in Razgona about 30,000,000, the elementary school in Brza, the first phase of 50.000 dinars, the reconstruction of the school in Turekovec 17,000,000, the reconstruction and construction of the building "Deve Južović" 18,000,000 dinars of investments, the local self-government should provide 10,000 dinars. Building a centre for living room for children with special conditions, i.e. disabled children, value of investment 10,000 000 dinars. There's no need to remind you as a professor that in 2005, it was declared a year of education and education in the world. For bridges on Moravi over 19.5 million dinars, 21 million dinars were invested in the deposits of Podrinjci, for buildings of municipal infrastructure. That what you were talking about, and I can understand it when it comes to certain local roads, such as the Barajevo – Ruglica 23 km long, the investment of 72 million dinars, because it represents an absolute relationship with the Land Area of Security in the border zone with Kosovo, and 6 villages are gravitating there with 1,500 inhabitants, which are completely cut off from civilization and where the construction of the road is really a condition for the survival of the population in that area. And there is also a lake of the regional water system of Barje, which is needed for the entire population to be supplied with that water. And other investments, which you never imagined to realize, we managed to end them in such a short period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10350	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10351	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank the distinguished Dr. Cvetanovic for mentioning me and giving me a chance at a replica. My principle is, if there's a reason at the bar to fight or to break up, to do it at the bar, but this time since my colleague Cvetanovic mentioned me, I'm going to have to answer. So, he compared two authorities, this current power in Leskovac, which is a coalition of Radicals – SNS – YES and I don't know who else, and our DOS government, when we took office or power about November 2000, and left the authorities after the election of 7 February 2003. It's very important what you inherited and what you left behind. So, whoever we're comparing, I have three minutes to figure out what we inherited. We inherited a 3.5 million-mark debt and in 2000 it was the total budget of the town of Leskovac, i.e. the municipality of Leskovac, which amounted to 120 million dinars for that year. The whole budget was a debt we had to pay back. We couldn't buy one needle for eight months. And what did we leave in 2003? We left a surplus in the budget, we left a budget that was balanced and for which we were praised by the current president of the municipality. The 860 million budget, the new government, of course, took advantage of that budget and first bought herself cars, pejoe, but we'll discuss it in Leskovac. As far as school is concerned, my conscience is clear, I saw it as a challenge for me, as a teacher and a university professor. We built 12 new school buildings during that time. So, for the sake of full truth, 12 buildings we built, mostly these were laid foundations back 10 or 15 years, but we didn't finish them. So that's the full truth about that power, and when this current government is finished with its mandate, we'll see what it has left for the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10352	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? He can't rephrase. Don't be angry. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Article 5 amends Article 99 of the Law, which provides for a special law to determine part of the income tax and the amount of funds belonging to the local self-government unit based on transfers from the Serbian budget. The proportion of the funds referred to in Article 1(1) shall be paid to the local self-government unit once or more during the month, as set out in the draft law, in the position of the third amended Article 99. With my amendment, we try to intervene by erasing the words "or multiple times". The text, therefore, would remain "a proportional part of the transfer funds referred to in Article 1 will be paid to the local self-government unit once a month". We don't understand, first of all, what it means multiple times, because it's an undefined formulation, and we advocate that such formulations are avoided in laws. There is no reason why and how many times the relative portion of the transfer funds is paid to the local self-government unit during the month, and in order to better explain the objective of the amendment, we need to return to the proposal for a law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Serbian budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, where it says that the amount of the monthly amount of the transfer funds has been determined as one of the twelve annual amounts set out in Article 3 of this Law. If the Republic's budget is reduced during the year, the amount of transfer funds transferred to the municipalities, the city and the city of Belgrade will be reduced proportionally. So, because of precision, because of the creation of the possibility that, if it remains as it is now proposed, it is in some way misused, we have submitted this amendment, believing that it contributes, first of all, to its purpose, namely to specify the very obligation of the Republic's budget to transfer those transfer funds. I would only briefly return to the problem of the transfer of funds, by commenting on Article 10 of this Law, which was regulated that in this year the transfer funds, intended to cover the missing funds from part of the tax-received revenue due to changes to the tax rules, should be distributed, above all, from the need to equate the volume of public expenditure between individual units of local self-government, but the impression is that this unification can lead to and certainly lead to inequality in the strength of local self-government, and the power of a local self-government, uncontested, is seen in its financial power. Of course, its financial power is proportionate to the financial power of the state itself, but we miss it, and it's quite clear, and through the law on local self-government in the future, we're going to have to change, clear and precise provisions, or criteria on the basis of which these assets are being allocated, so this year is going to be an experimental year, because of the inability to determine at all how much of these funds, how much local self-government will have from these sources, as long as that transfer goes. We have, of course, that Belgrade is getting a large portion of the funding from this budget because of the number of residents, because of other needs that are related to the capital, and we have no law on the capital, and it is simply unthinkable that we have committed to it since 1999, when we passed the law on local self-government, and without any consequences, it has passed that we do not have one day or day. As a consequence, there are 17 municipalities in Belgrade that are completely decommissioned and unable to respond to their basic function. And we need to think carefully about whether we need these municipalities at all, if they are not own and powerful to do anything in their alleged responsibilities without the city of Belgrade, although these responsibilities have been shortened, but to respond to what citizens expect from their local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10354	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday one of my colleagues, when we spoke in the principle debate, said it was unusual for this law to propose a finance minister in the Serbian government and that it would be normal and common for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government to be the minister of local self-government. Now I'll tell you why my colleague, among other things, was right. If this law had come from the ministry that it was supposed to come from, then I don't believe there would have been such a rough mistake and that in this law the government would have shown really great insecureness and top-notch legal-technical ignorance. In Article 9, it is proposed, but this way, I must, for the sake of the legal public of Serbia, indeed quote this article on which I have submitted the amendment and, of course, my amendment; Article 9 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government says - in Article 25(1), point (1) of point 5. Law on public revenue and public expenditure, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. That one and that one, it's wiped out. So one member of the Law on Local Self-Government is deleted from the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expension. I think this really is a precedent, that this has never happened in legal practice, theory and science. That's why we suggested that this member be deleted. And, in the name of the government, this law represented the Minister of Local Self-Government, even if this mistake had happened to him, I am convinced that he would accept this amendment on the board, at least to protect the government from this explanation that Serbia's public listens to today. And now, my dear fellow lawyers, who you don't know, I'm going to teach you how to do this. If you do not think that Article 25 paragraph 1 should apply point (1) of point 5. The law on public incomes and public expenditures, and you have not changed that law, then you should have said - since the date of entry into force of this law, means the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, ceases to apply Article 25 paragraph 1 point 1) of point 5. Public revenue and public expenditure laws. So what you wanted could have been said this way without making such a legal mess. I purposely did not write on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group such an amendment, because you might accept the amendment, and then Serbian citizens would not know how bad Serbian government ministers and their closest associates are. And since I truly believe that in this House, colleagues who are lawyers have legal skills and legal experience, I believe that this amendment of mine will be accepted and warmly recommended to my colleagues by the lawyers above all, and I believe that I am also those who have not been able to convince that the amendment is indeed one legal solution to the unfair situation that the Government has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10356	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the draft law in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 18th point of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Allocation of TRANSFER Resources from the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and the participation of municipalities, towns and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Dusan Proroković, together Veroljub Stevanović, Sanja Cekovic, Slobodan Zivkucin, Radojle Bukvic, Radovan Teodorović, Nikola Jovanovic, Milan Ninić, Bogoljub Pejčić and Tomislav Kitanovic. Together Velimir Stevanović, Sanja Cekovic, Radovan Teodorović, Nikola Jovanovic, Milan Ninić and Tomislav Kitanovic; together Velimir Stanojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Miroslav Petkovic, Dobrica Jankovic, Miodrag Djidić, Goran Knezevic, Arsen Đurić, Hranislav Perić, Živojin Stefanović, Radic Jokovic, Dragoljub Zivkovic, Zoran Ćirković, Milorad Belic, Branislav Nedimović, Dragan Zivkov, Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Together Nenad Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Milan Markovic, Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Together Nenad Bogdanović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Milan Marković and Anita Beretic, Jovan Palalić, Toma Busetic, Vukosav Tomaševic, Milovan Marković, Zoran Tanasijević, Radojko Obradović, Vladimir Jovanovic, Dejan Stojilković, Bajram Omeragić, Milutin Pešić, Bojan Kekić, Zoran Nikolic. Together, Goran Ilic and Slobodan Adzic, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Goran Rakovic, Dragan Šormaz, Zeljko Tomic and Goran Davidovic. You have received notice that MPs Nenad Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Milan Markovic, Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic are withdrawing the amendment they submitted to Article 2. You have received notice from which MPs have withdrawn amendments to Article 3 and that: Veroljub Stevanović, Sanja Čevanović, Slobodan Zivkucin, Radojle Bukvić, Radovan Teodorović, Nikola Jovanovic, Milan Ninić, Bogoljub Pejčić and Tomislav Kitanović; Nenad Bogdanović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Milan Marković and Anita Beretic; Goran Ilići Slobodan Adžić; Arsen Đurić; Jovan Palalić; Dragan Šormaz; Branislav Nedimović; Zeljko Tomić; Dejan Stojljković; Zoran Nikolic; Goran Davidović; Vukosav Tomašić; Goran Rakovic; Dusan Proroković and Milutin Pešić. You have received notice from which MP Hranislav Peric gave up his amendment, which he submitted to article 3 along with MP Živojin Stefanovic, and MP Miroslav Petkovic gave up on the amendment that he submitted to article 3 along with MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. At a session of the Committee on Finance, MP Radojko Obradovic withdrew the amendment to Article 3. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Councilman, Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. It reads: "The municipalities participate in the profit tax achieved in the municipality's 50% territory, and the cities and the City of Belgrade at 40%." There are several reasons why I submitted this amendment to Article 2. Given that many municipalities in Serbia, as is the municipality of Vienna from which I come, are quite deprived with the termination of the sales tax, I don't think this transfer of 13.800,000 funds will make up for all shortfalls by abolishing the sales tax. This increase in percentages from 40 to 50 means 10% by increasing, we could somehow raise the budget of municipalities for a number of reasons. During privatisation in all municipalities, many workers lost their jobs, and, of course, the budgets of all municipalities were denied in profit tax. Well, for example, like "Carbodioid" and "Soya protein" of Vienna's general privatisation, many workers are out of work. The biggest problem that awaits us next year, and perhaps even in this year, is the way PIC is being prepared. I believe that out of 2,000 PIC workers, many will be out of work. Maybe even 1,000 people. It means that the automatic budget of the Becay municipality will be denied in a large amount, and by increasing the percentage of the profits tax, we would be able to make up for the budget of the city of Vienna. I think by increasing the percentage of the profit tax, we would be able to make up for the budget of the city of Vienna. By reducing the consumer vehicle tax from 5% to 2%, we also reduce the budget, as well as real estate, i.e. The country that is sold in flat-rate areas, such as the municipality of Vienna, has automatically reduced the city's budget and the municipality of Vienna. The funds that are received in this difference, and I believe that since the minister is not present here at this session, and if he hears me, I think it could be intended, could be used for the environment, for the development of the municipality or for culture and sport. Let the minister mark them and say, these 10% difference in the amount that we received by increasing from 40-50% of the municipality, make it a means of purpose. All areas of these marked means are in the interest of the development of the municipality, and SO Becay thinks that it should be a developmental municipality and we think that this budget, or this distribution that was planned as a transfer from the Serbian budget and income tax, will not succeed in the development plan that we planned in the city of Vienna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10358	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The cities at points 1 and 2 of the amendments together were submitted by MPs Veroljub Stevanović, Sanja Cekovic, Radovan Teodorovic, Nikola Jovanovic, Milan Ninic and Tomislav Kitanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10359	He would suggest to the MPs, if we could make a small change in order of the agenda points and consider the 23rd item of the agenda as the next point after this, therefore, as 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10360	Thank you. (Rajko Baralić, from the place: Can't do it like that.) We'll go straight to the Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute, I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Rajko Baralic, from the scene: You can't do it like that, President, this is a scandal. Shame on you. Shame on you. Just a moment, say, one moment, Mr. Baralic. I don't understand. So, I put to the vote Milos Aligrudic's proposal to consider point 23 after the 18th point. Here you go. (Rajko Baralić, from the place: What is this way? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. Here you go. For 99, they did not vote 33 of 132 MPs. I find a change of order has been made. Here you go, Mr. Baralic. (Rajko Baralic, from the place: I don't want to, it's a scandal, President. I'm sorry, please, I can't understand. (Rajko Baralić, from the place: you understand perfectly. I don't really understand. I don't understand. We're continuing our work. On the 3rd part of A) cities, at point 1 and part B of the municipality, the 138th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Velimir Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Markicevic and I have submitted an amendment proposing that the transfer funds for the Municipality of Cačak be increased by 70 million dinars, i.e. instead of the proposed 145,280,000 to amount to 215,328,000. For this amendment, the proposal, there are a lot of arguments, but I would like to try to make this a parallel analysis of some of the revenues in 2004 and the projection of individual revenues for 2005. In 2004, about 140 million dinars will be realised in Cačak municipality in 2004, and within six months of the tax on the fund, about 100 million dinars and about 260 million dinars of sales tax, totaling about 500 million dinars in 2004. According to the 2005 budget projection, since there are no more income and turnover taxes, it is objectively that some 280 million dinars will be realised from the profit tax, and 145 million dinars have been offered by transfer funds, totaling 425 million dinars. It is nominally less than 75 million dinars in 2004, not counting the estimated inflation of 10%. That's exactly why we asked for these transfer funds to the Cacak municipality to be increased by 70 million dinars. If we look at the investments made in the Municipality of Cačak in 2004, and not counting investment in the construction of municipal infrastructure facilities, means, roads, waterways, sewerage networks, gasification, etc., I must say that in 2003 and 2004, the construction of a sports hall was started in Cačak municipality and in the final phase, and two new elementary schools were built. The first kindergarten in the rural area in western Serbia was built. In that sense, we intend to work in the next financial year. The Priorities of Čačak Municipality in preschool and school protection are the construction of a new kindergarten, the capacity for 250 young people, as well as the detailed reconstruction of the primary school in Preljina, and what is certain, one of the top priorities of the municipality next year is the construction of a new secondary catering school, which must definitely be completed by the beginning of the next school year, i.e. by 1 September 2005. I urge all MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, so that we can make these investments happen. Given that I did not report in the debate in principle, I have to ask a few questions, what most MPs have already said, and the question of realising the transfer funds, so let it be 145 million, but we all know that this will depend on filling the republican budget, that is, according to the percentage charge of the republican budget, will also be transferred to local self-government. At the very end, what most of the other MPs have found, these are criteria. The criteria have been established under the old law and each of these criteria must be changed, because I will not mention any municipalities from western Serbia, but we mean, say, two municipalities that are territorially close, both of them undeveloped, let's say, frogs and frogs. The frog got a 22% increase, I don't mind, and the Frogs got a 10% increase. I ask on the basis of which mathematics is all done and how these transfer funds are distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10362	In addition to all the poverty of this congregation, even the technique does not work well. I ask all MPs to keep an eye on each other and to set up microphones according to their height, and even now the MPs can't hear well. The word is Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10363	Mr. President, fellow MPs, there is not much to add except for what Mr. Stanojevic has stated precisely and clearly, why you should adopt this amendment. I ask all MPs' groups, especially MPs who have withdrawn amendments these days, to vote for this amendment for moral reasons. Simply put, simply put, what does this amendment mean? You have two options. Those who do not vote in favour of the amendment voted to give Belgrade a few dozen million dinars for lamps, lanterns and similar trinkets for the city of Belgrade to be illuminated. If you're voting for this amendment, you voted that the Chacan children have a new school.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10364	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the next amendment, I'm giving a 60-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10365	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Since we have a quorum to work with, we're moving on. On Article 3rd part B) of the municipality at point 50th of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10366	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is one of a series of amendments where local self-government has requested an increase in funds for its local self-government. The Finance Committee has rejected this proposal. I'm not optimistic, but I don't think the Assembly is going to adopt either, but because of the citizens of the Zrenjanin municipality, for my sake, I'm going to try to convince you otherwise. Namely, the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Serbian budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in the 2005 profit tax is provided for in Article 3 – transfer funds for the Zrenjanin municipality of 117,446,767 dinars. We checked with the Ministry's services. It's not a technical error. Considering our calculations and everything we talked about in the principle discussion, Zrenjanin was damaged by this distribution of transfer funds by 35 million dinars. Comparing the city of Zrenjanin, the municipality of Zrenjanin with similar municipalities, which is the municipality of Leskovac, Kruševac and Kraljevo, where income was about as much as ours in 2004, in this year the volume of transfer funds is lower by 60 to 70 percent compared to those cities, or municipalities compared to Zrenjanin. In these municipalities there is a similar number of inhabitants, we are similar areas, we have similar numbers in primary and secondary schools and child protection. The only thing we're in favour of is having bigger original incomes. Also, Mr. Obradovic spoke of these original revenues as the result of some special benefits or efficiency of local administration work. I claim this time that the Grain Management is extremely efficient and that these original revenues are exclusively thanks to the work of that administration. In fact, we have fewer employees than in 2000 and we have excellent results, as far as we are concerned, we are even a visual municipality for some programs and our secretariats are instructors for various programmes that are happening now in Serbia. Zrenjanin has problems like other cities, as well as other municipalities similar to size. We have a problem with the unemployed, too. Zrenjanin currently has about 18,000 unemployed, we have a problem with the textile complex, with a metal complex, with a disparity in the price of agricultural products, and we have a huge problem, for a year drinking water in the municipality of Zrenjanin is not for human use, or is not for drinking and is not for preparing food. It is a huge problem and local self-government in Zrenjanin finances full supply of drinking water and food preparation of all schools, all kindergartens and all hospitals. You can imagine what that cost is. I think I've managed to convince you, if not completely, then at least some of you and I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10367	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd part B of the Municipality of 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10368	Mr Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, this law has managed to unite to a good extent the MPs of the government and MPs of the opposition, because a lot of amendments have been made to it, which means that the criteria that should have laid down the amount of funds to be transferred to municipalities have not been applied until the end and have not been applied in the best way. For this reason, I answered the word, because I believe that Kruševac is also damaged by this distribution, that the transfer funds of 169 million, as proposed for Kruševac to receive, are not real and I have proposed an increase of 27 million, in order to reach in some way the budget that Kruševac had in the previous year. With a transfer like this, I'm afraid we won't even have the budget we had in 2004. I'm just saying that even Kruševac, who was once an industrial giant, who was the strongest industrial city in Serbia, is no longer that and is in a position like all other cities in Serbia, that they are low earnings, that there are many unemployed and that we are simply in a position like all other cities. Why is Kruševac damaged by this bill? Perhaps because the ruling coalition does not have any MPs from Kruševac, who, as with Kragujevac, would have managed to vote for an increase in funds or perhaps it is revenge for the Kruševljani who on September 19th did not vote for the G17 Plus municipality president. During his stay in Krusevec, Finance Minister Mr Dinkic publicly said Krusevic has a good budget, but that he can be even better and that he can be supported by funds from the republican budget, but provided that the citizens of Krusevic vote for candidate G17 plus. Fortunately, candidate G17 plus won only fifth place and did not get enough votes, but now it seems as a boomerang is returning to Krusevec, only Minister Dinkic seems to have forgotten that he is now in the coalition along with SPS and G17 plus. Unfortunately, there is no minister to hear all this, and I'm afraid he is not at the recreation, as it is said here today, but that the minister is dealing with some more serious problems, regarding "Serbishum", so he suggested for Kruševac that in the forest land of Kruševec, in the ŠG "Rasina", the engineer would take the position of director, and likely the forest engineer would become hospital director. He also deals with medical staffing and in Kruševec was replaced by Director Ranka Radonjic only for the reason he is not a member of G17 Plus, otherwise she is a doctor who did a great job and who received all the recognitions from all the experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10369	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Replica, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10370	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only the Kruševac, all the cities of Serbia Sir, I wonder if you have any other topics besides G17 plus. [[The voices from the bench are damaged.]] The more you deal with the theme G17 plus, the more it'll cost you. I think it is better to stop such a practice, because it is not good for the citizens of Serbia to remain only members of the G17 plus to be guardians of the five-octobaric changes, that the G17 plus continues to change with full responsibility and awareness. If you think you're waging such a war in a democratic bloc, it'll only go to your advantage. I advise you to clear up the situation in your ranks, see which faction you and others belong to, that we finally know who we're dealing with here in the Serbian Parliament. So it's not good for you to open topics, and you yourself need to carry out responsibility in your ranks. Do I need to explain to you again that you need to clear your ranks, solve the affairs in the previous period and no longer take the G17 plus in your mouth for no reason? As for us, repeat here every day G17 plus, and this echo will spread to Serbia to a much greater extent than you think. It seems you haven't learned here that, while I'm head of the parliamentary group, no attacks on either side of the G17 plus I won't allow it, it will be returned to you twice. Take care of it and make sure you clear your ranks, see what happens to Chad, the rest of the gss, to Janko, to Mark, not to deal with G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10371	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd part B) of the municipality at point 116, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment of MP Radic Jokovic was withdrawn. On Article 3rd part A, cities at point 1 and part B of the municipality at point 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10372	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3(1), Section A) Towns of point 1. Belgrade is replaced by 5,595,034,000 dinars of 5,602,034,000 dinars. In Section B, point 83. The amount of Meroshina 15.772.209 is replaced by 22.772.209 dinars. I submitted the amendment after an analysis of all the criteria under which the funds were allocated to the municipalities of the budget. According to my calculations, Meroshina has made a mistake, or someone has sinned, but I hope that any mistake can be corrected and that in this case the minister will do so. It's no big deal when it's wrong, but it's terrible if you can make a mistake right, but it's the biggest mistake if you don't. If I wasn't right, I wouldn't even stand for the amendment, because if it were a small mistake, I certainly wouldn't have submitted the amendment, because by nature I'm not a petty person, and the mistake increases it. In 2002, there were 13,924,884 dinars, 15,485,315 dinars, 22,327,478 dinars, and only 15,772,209 dinars are planned in 2004. The planned funding is at 2003 level, and even seven million less than it was in 2004. When I looked at the schedule in the municipalities, there are many things that don't add up, but I won't talk about it, because it's not right to mention municipalities similar to Meroshini, given that everything is poor and that everyone needs every penny, because there are similar torments in all small and undeveloped municipalities. There is another reason why I will not mention and compare the municipalities that they have received more from Meroshina, because I have parliamentary dignity. I proposed that the 5,602,000,000 dinars of Belgrade be reduced to seven million and that Belgrade remain on 5,595,000 dinars and that Meroshini be added to seven million and have 22 million. I'm very embarrassed to suggest that anyone be taken away. I'd like the most if you could solve Meroshina's problem without being taken away. I've been thinking a lot about where to suggest a reduction, so I suggested where it's least going to hurt, but who has the most, because it won't mean anything to Belgrade seven million. It's said in Meroshina -- you don't feed a bear from a midwife. It would mean a lot to Meroshina. I've spoken to most of the Belgrade MPs from all parties, and when I explain my proposal, they don't object. When I explained my amendment to Mayor Belgrade, Mr Bogdanovic, he did not object either. Finally, I would ask the promoter to accept my amendment in front of the government, which is just and acceptable, but if that does not happen, I ask all MPs to vote in favour of this amendment, and in particular I call on the Belgrade MPs to vote in favour of this amendment and show that they are solid and that the MPs are ahead of the big city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10373	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The cities at point 3rd and part B) of the municipalities at points 38, 43 and 83 of the amendment were submitted by MP Živojin Stefanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment was signed together by me and my colleague, Zika Stefanovic, as one member cannot stand two signatures, I withdrew my signature, but the amendment remained and he is being held as Žika Stefanovic. In Article 3, I believe that the proper distribution of transfer funds to municipalities, particularly underdeveloped such as Doljevac, Gajin Han and Merošin, has not been carried out at the Nisavski district level. I propose that the city of Nis be reduced by 8 million 716 000 dinars, and that this amount be distributed to Doljevac, Gadjin Han and Meroshini. This amendment has meaning and justification and will not do anyone any special harm. Given that Meroshin municipalities, Doljevac and Gajin Han are also in Nisavski County, Nis as a big city should help develop neighbouring municipalities. I'm only going to state a few reasons why I filed this amendment. Several thousand workers from these municipalities work in Nis, earning income in Nis and what little they earn, spent in Nis shops. This is how the citizens of these municipalities are filled with budgets. All agricultural products on the market come from these municipalities and here is where the Niša budget is filled. Nis received money from the sale of the Niš tobacco factory and hundreds of workers from the three municipalities mentioned worked and participated in the construction of the tobacco factory and live in the area of Merošina, Doljevac and Gajino Han. The tobacco is produced in these municipalities, it's always had a low price in ransom because there was a monopoly. Therefore, what remains for local self-government from the sale of enterprises should be distributed in proportion to all municipalities around Nis. The transport at Nisavski County level is carried out by Nis Express, based in Nishua, all the money that is made in these municipalities of the tax goes to the tax budget only. When we look at everything, there's a valid reason to strip eight million of them from Nis position and add to the municipalities of Doljevac, Gajin Han and Meroshin. There's still a lot of reasons I can name, and I think this is enough to keep me out of time. Given that the funds allocated from the budget should be used to create environments, to create new plants, to create new jobs, to create better conditions for living in the country, Nis would have to offer himself, not to look over the amendments, because it would reduce the inflow of citizens from the village to the city, because if everyone from the surrounding villages came to live in the city, there would be additional problems for the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10375	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd part of the (b) of the Municipality of 73rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3(a) The City Point 1 and part (b) of the Municipality at point 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ćirković. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10376	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities in the income tax and sales tax, according to this year, Priboj received over 59 million. With this proposal for a law on the distribution of transfer funds, Preboj participates with a sum of over 39 million, which is less than 20 million dinars this year and for a small municipality it is a serious problem. I thought I'd withdraw this amendment if the Finance Committee and Resolute Minister accepted Mr. Radojko Obradovic's amendment. Now I am prepared to give up this amendment if I get firm assurances that this amendment will be adopted. I do this for a simple reason because those solutions proposed by Mr. Obradovic are more favourable for Priboj, so instead of 59, how much did it belong to him this year, it would have won 66 million dinars. The predicted volume is now only 39 million and indeed, once again, 20 million dinars is a serious problem for a poor environment that has one devastated giant FAP, which simply doesn't work. I wasn't involved in a principle debate, but within this time that belongs to me, I could suggest the Minister next thing. We don't really know the method of how this significant reduction occurred, if they're the same criteria as the distribution of funds. These criteria have six, of those six four are truly exact and therefore measurable, and two are unmistakable. I will specify these criteria which have been maintained under the previous law, only with the changed order possible. These are the criteria for the number of inhabitants, which is measurable, the number of primary and secondary schools, which is also measurable, the number of children covered by social care for children and the number of social care facilities; then, the status of the environment and the degree of development of certain local environments, which is really immeasurable, because we do not know what parameters are taken. In the end, the sixth criterion, the size of the territory, which is also exact. So let Minister Dinkic directly express the numerical factors and put them in the numerator, the factors that affect the indirect input into the denominator and thus get the formula that can be distributed, and not only that, he will finally get an explanation of how the distribution is done. Once again, unless he has done so, and clearly has not done so, he is obliged to give a special explanation for every municipality and every city. You will admit, it would be much better if that formula had been written, respecting the parameters and criteria provided for by law and the results, i.e. the amounts to be obtained in this way. They'd be general and couldn't argue. I've seen a large number of proposings give up the amendment, these amendments I'd call "original," because we're about to stretch our environment. The truth is, we are not really legislators of the electoral districts or election units, because Serbia is one electoral unit, but only MPs of our political parties who have run us. In addition, if the circumstances are such that some MPs give up their amendments, then it makes me happy and it is an opportunity for this amendment to be adopted and it will not affect the funds that have been given to Belgrade and, by the way, it has received more than 25% more than it belonged to in 2004, and poor Priboj has received 30% less than it belonged to this year. So, if the number of proposings is reduced, then the imposition on Belgrade will be lower and I really respect the minister's stance that after three months, he will examine the methodology for the allocation of funds. I'm afraid simply, do we have firm guarantees that this will come to pass. In any case, it seems to me that for the small environments, which are damaged by this law, there is a way to compensate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10377	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10378	Listening to the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have come to the impression that the quality measure of this law, which is before us, is valued by most MPs at the amount of funds their local environments have received. Very often the term is used, i.e. there are no criteria on the basis of which the funds are determined. I am directly encouraged by the discussion of the predecessors. First, the gentleman compared two incomparable sizes. The amount of transfer this year and the amount of total funds received by the local self-government through the 2004 budget proposal. The criteria absolutely exist. My predecessor listed six. There are ten criteria on which the funds are determined. The members of the Finance Committee, to whom I belong, have received such material, and it is my fault that we received one copy of the three municipalities. There are ten criteria and I'll read them. The first is - the area, the second is - the number of inhabitants, the third is - the number of primary education departments, the fourth is - the number of elementary education facilities, the fifth is - the number of secondary education education schools, the sixth is the number of secondary education facilities, the seventh is - the number of children, the number of childcare facilities, the ninth - the density of the population by average, and the tenth - the social product by average. It was mentioned here that it was math. This isn't even math, this is an account. This is about four basic accounting operations, and it's very easy to determine that it adhered to a certain principle. I can't argue that the basic prices per unit have been established, so to speak, but for these three cities for which we have a full calculation, the members of the Committee of Finance who are represented by all parliamentary groups have received this material and have been able to present it to their colleagues. I've been checking it out, and this basic unit is absolutely represented, and it's multiplied by the factor that is obtained, let's say from the area ratio of certain municipalities. So I think there's a lot of unprincipled discussions, and what I want to remind you at this point is that the funds that go to local self-government represent public spending. With both the memorandum and the budget, we realized here that the government was going to reduce public spending, and I think that people, especially those who run local self-government, should take a little more care of the number of employees in local self-government, of increasing the number of employees and of the need for so many employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10379	Replica, MP Zoran Ćirkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10380	I have a hunch that the honorable gentleman with me was having an entanglement. But the results he's given, I don't know what they're for. Just those criteria that I listed, which are cumulatively two times, he factored them into one plus one. Furthermore, the minister cannot change those criteria. These criteria are prescribed by Article 99. Law on local self-government. Dear sir, the same was true for 2004 and are in force for the proposed amendments and additions to the existing law. So I don't know where you found those ten criteria, unless you've done it the following way -- so it says here: the number of children that are covered by the social care of children and the number of objects, well, you've factored it into two. The first is the number of children, and the second is the number of objects. Well, next, the number of classes and the number of elementary and secondary schools, so you broke it up into two, so the departments and facilities of the primary school, i.e. the departments and facilities of the secondary school. But in principle this is about the same criteria as in the previous law. I can't figure out how different results come from the same criteria. Indeed, I know it's not math, but it's a simple account, but I'm surprised by the fact that it's a simple account that we come up with data that's contradictory. It's just that those funds that are planned and that local environments get by some other base, they still can't replace that difference, and the difference from 20 million dinars, dear sir, is drastic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10381	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10382	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't answer, but Mr. Urosevic mentioned the Finance Committee. It is true that we spoke on the Finance Committee and there was a change of criteria and we were looking for criteria. But I think that we agreed that there are objective criteria on the Committee would not unanimously conclude that by 31 March the Ministry of Finance proposed an objective criterion for each of these points individually, which Mr Urosevic spoke of. I wouldn't say now whether it's five or six or ten points, but the fact is that we don't have the exact parameters to determine what it means -- what the cost of one child is in elementary school or kindergarten, which means the number of inhabited places. Whether a municipality of 20 inhabited towns or 60, with the same population should have the same resources. Whether the increase in the number of employees, or approximately at the level of the district, if in one municipality, in the central municipality, here is Mr. Hrana Peric, saying that most Doljevac workers are employed in Nis, what that means for a Doljevac. There must be a criterion for those developed, medium-developed municipalities and underdeveloped. Are we going to develop Serbia evenly or do we just want to force those who have. But no one is to be taken away. So we all agree here that there are no objective criteria to the end. This is not a criticism of the finance ministry, in terms of -- well, they didn't want to give. So now, right now, there are no objective criteria. What else is missing here so that we can be honest and say - are the exact parameters that are determined. We will, of course, vote in favour of the law because we have agreed that there is a need to do all of this by March 31st and to see if any of these figures will move towards a municipality or not. But there's a problem that we've talked about several times, Mr. Urosevic knows, on the board, where I asked to get a number of employees in the municipalities. You know, someone's acting rationally in the community, so compared to 2000, he's now, for example. Gajin Han, four workers less than in 2000, and Kruševac has three times as many employees. You can't stimulate someone if they employ more, and you say -- now he has 300 employees in the municipality, so he needs so much to pay, and in the last three years he's hired his party staff and party people, and the municipality is more irrational than the citizens, or more specifically, citizens get even harder to get all those papers they need, or to have them serve as a municipality. So we have to put all that stuff on the table. As MPs, we need to know what it is for a municipality of 50,000 inhabitants to be employed, which is the number of workers to be employed in the municipality, how much it takes for 100,000 or how much it takes for 200,000, so we can talk about objective criteria. If we don't have it, there's no objective criteria. Other questions are the salaries in the municipalities. You know, here I was asked yesterday by some journalists that in Old Town, the vice president or president of the municipality there are 11 average salaries in Serbia. So the president of the Old Town municipality should have 150,000 dinars, and the MP 34,000, and the halabuca for a month against the MPs, and we should determine and worry about how to get him that salary. It's just not possible. How? Then we act on our own. Then we act like we're afraid of the public, tell the truth about what's going on, worry about how little he is, and never enough for him. Look, let me, if we wanted to be honest, this law shouldn't be passed in this assembly until the MPs get the exact information -- how much each president of the municipality has to pay, how much each vice president has to pay. What is their position and their right. Is it possible that some president, in a municipality of 20,000 people, as well as the vice-president of the municipality, have a cabinet, secretary, a car, a ficus and all living, and pays five times as much as MPs, and that the MP doesn't even have a working chair while considering objective criteria - how much money the municipality needs. It is true that if we want to develop Serbia, we need to decentralised power and provide greater resources and greater money, but also greater obligations for these municipalities to develop municipalities. This congregation home must know precisely, if it is given 10 million, and 100 million and a billion, why is it being spent in that municipality. Not only do we give, so it doesn't matter, we've given a report, ladies and gentlemen. If he who gives money has the obligation to receive a report on how that money is spent, did this congregation home come from any municipality, and from those who submit amendments and those who do not submit amendments, have we ever received as MPs a report on what money is spent for? How that money was spent. It is necessary for congregations to function, to adopt budgets, to adopt this, but also, if we want to see Serbia honestly as a whole and not say that here we need to take a million and here to give a million, then all these criteria must be on the table. But, last year's report, how much it's in the community of employed people, who are paid, the obligations that municipalities have to carry out, and that's how we look at each other honestly, and not that we keep talking here to cheer for our community. Well, it turns out that my barbarine I like less because I don't have a change to ask for more money, and someone because he gave the amendment he prefers his community. That's not true. We all love our municipalities where we're from, and we'd all like to have more money, just please know the objective criteria about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10383	The word has a folk MP, Dobrica Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10384	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I may almost continue here where the previous speaker left off. It'd all be like that, just to ask one question that's missing here, why didn't the minister make sure it got that information. So let's say that maybe he couldn't get a full data corpus at the same time, and all of which are necessary for a very precise analysis and for a valid approach, a tax-determined approach to programming, cutting off the transfer funds by local self-government. It is a very thin excuse that local self-governments have not been established and the President of Smederevo municipality has been prepared to attend such a meeting, fully competent and with arguments and data that would be appropriate and sufficient for a proper relationship with such planning. I'm sure there are enough elected presidents of the municipalities who have been able to do the same. Therefore, it is a thin excuse for Mr. Minister, who is not here today, and is it because he is not really interested in it, and that is too often a phenomenon as far as the government's representative is concerned, when discussing legislative proposals, okay, it is Saturday, and I have no information, perhaps the minister is in a really urgent, important place, where his absence will be more serious than the absence from the Assembly, when the National Assembly discusses these laws. Maybe he could at least make an apology and know the reasons to accept it and figure out why something else was more important there instead. In the debate in principle, I offered to set up a meeting like this, and at least he could have made us that message when he was planning to make that meeting. And if those who gave up the amendment to Article 3 hadn't given up and participated today in this debate, each of them, as he had submitted it, with all the figures and reasons to explain the amount they listed in their amendment, each for their own municipality individually, and also many of us who submitted the amendments did not withdraw them, and they gave up the debate on the amendment they had submitted, what kind of debate would be then. We've heard here that there's been enough and, as someone here has already said, a lot of unprincipled arguments, there's been a lot of unscrupulous debates. What about the fact that he basically lost this bill. We have heard so many debaters from MPs who have spoken about these amendments, so it is not in principle that, in addition to the criteria, we have heard from the previous or earlier speakers that there are also those criteria that are not specified as criteria, but they seem to have been applied. Whether one of them, from which the party comes, the president of the municipality, or one who represents on behalf of a political organisation, political party or group, coalitions of a local self-government, is certainly not one of the argumentatojas writes among the criteria that were run when this plan was made up and cut into transfers. Doesn't it occur to anyone - since a large number of debaters are reportedly unprincipled, reportedly missing the subject, allegedly unargumentedly speaking, whether it is possible that so many MPs have objections, suggestions and attempts to correct the matter with amendments – that the proposal itself is not correct enough. We could be this sudden, and imagine everyone coming out and talking about the reasons, like I didn't come out to talk about the reasons why I thought about it, and I decided on a flat-rate basis, although taking care of the parameters, how much matching the proposed amounts and how much might be proposed to increase the transfer to the Smederevo municipality. Anyone could explain it like that, defend that approach, and we here today, not just today, would have seemed like a circus, not a decent debate. I am not sure, or I am convinced that MPs are not guilty of creating such an environment in the debate over such a legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10385	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10386	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning to say it's an honor to speak when I have 20 members of the Socialist International standing before me, I suppose they've stood up for me, although members are joined. Later they'll help to do something, but they'll wait, they'd better sit down. With regard to what colleagues have talked about here today, the measure of the success of one politician and one policy is looked at in the ability from the central government to provide local self-government as favourable conditions as possible for its citizens, and not vice versa, to fill the central budget from local incomes, and to make it practically possible for its distribution without their influence. A measure of political responsibility and politicians is measured by politicians who are in central government taking care of the continent and making a budget that is sufficient for one state to function, not jeopardising in this poor environment in Serbia, such as Crna Trava, Merošina, Sjenica, as well as many others. With this in mind, I would like to say that the fully legitimate initiatives of all respected colleagues who have tried today to help amendments or discussions in principle improve the position of the budget of their local self-government, because there is not enough resources there. The second question is whether there is a willingness for the budgetary inspection, which is practically managed by the finance ministry, to carry out adequate control of budget spending over the course of one year. It would be good if we could get a report of that control, even in those municipalities that we know the funds were spent in vain and not always in accordance with the most significant needs in that local self-government. Local self-government is not easy to function. There's a whole series of problems. It is our duty to help the extent to which we can. It's not about this subject, but I was honored to be visited yesterday by a number of people from the Senate. There is a small village of Crvsko in the Municipality of Sjenica, which cannot get electricity, because according to the law of Mr Dragoslav Šumarac, it is in the construction of buildings. It's impossible to be connected to electrical current until they have building permits. It's about households where people live over the age of 80, and some have never had electricity, some can't practically get any documentation about it, and these housewives have been there for 100 years. Should it be because there's such a law and because local self-government doesn't have the formal power to help them watch our silences, to go beyond having another fierce winter, and there I've spent 90 days some years, to spend in the dark, if they have to suffer cold, big winds, and great indifference. Politicians must be responsible for their environments, where they come from, towards their citizens and their country. Budget and distribution, i.e. transfer funds for local self-government, are an opportunity to show how much we understand the essence of the problem in our local self-government and in our country. That is why I will support each of the amendments submitted by my colleagues, which concerns additional funds for local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10387	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The cities at point 1 and B) of the municipality at point 27 of the amendment were submitted by MP Milorad Belic to Article 3 of Part A. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suppose it's unusual for us MPs to submit this number of amendments to the ruling majority, but it's really enough space left us this law, or the bill, especially because of its flexible and rather flexible criteria, and on the other hand, I really have a great commitment to the environment from which I come to say why I did it. According to the proposal for a law on the distribution of transfer funds to the municipality of Valjevo, a grant or subsidy amounting to 115.5 million dinars was proposed. Compared to last year, that's about 70 million less. The explanation of the finance minister two nights ago on the Finance Committee was that it was because of the fact that the fund made more of the municipalities, or 40% of them. It's quite understandable, and I know that argument, I could read it, but it should be said that it is only acceptable for municipalities that can really fill the budget from the profit fund. The situation in the Valjev municipality is quite bad, and the municipality itself is at the bottom of the scale according to all parameters that determine the status of Serb municipalities. Which is why it would be a long story to elaborate now, to get into it, but an even worse situation is supposed to be in 2005. Namely, the growing state or social firms do not practically operate, such as "Kruik", "Serbian women", "Stefila", "Jablanica" etc. And what's called a small economy is also on very low branches. It's one part of which the municipality needs to fill its budget, including the other part, those parameters that are foreseen for, say, selling real estate or a taxi from that inheritance, then attractive locations or locals, or if you want privatisations, will hardly be able to fill the budget from these funds, or from those areas. Privatisation was done in Valjevo, but in the opinion of most of our fellow citizens, it was better and not done. It is known at least to the Privatisation Committee and this home how many times the problem of the Valjevska Model was found on the Committee. But nine months practically lasts a strike of those workers, who took a strike somewhere in March this year. The Ministry of Business or, more specifically, the Privatisation Agency will not at least bring the case to the Trade Court and then be decided whether or not the workers are right. On the other hand, the privatisation of the Mlin company "September 15th" we know that it was done thanks to the use of the positions at which they were then Deputy Trade Minister, and the high-ranking official of the former New Democracy, or the privatisation of the "Kožara" Valjevo, which was carried out during this year and we have witnessed, at least we in Valjevo, that one part of the social programme paid by the government "Kožari" to deprive workers, that this new owner spent for some other purposes and who knows how all this will end. So these were the reasons why I wanted to simply comply with last year's criteria and that the amount foreseen from these transfer funds, or from 185 million, was indeed to be in this year, because practically nothing had changed. On the contrary, the situation is even more unfavourable, and I can also say that this will also reflect on investments and other areas from which budget filling is planned. I must point out that in the nine months this government has worked, that Valjevo's practical hand of co-operation and support has been provided only by the Ministry of Capital Investments, i.e. Minister Velimir Ilic, and that Valjevo-Loznica's engagement has done something, some improvement is being felt, and in the following year, the rehabilitation of the travel routes of Valjevo-Shabac, Valjevo-Loznica, as well as the realization of some more investment started. But that's not enough, and so far it's the only thing that's certain. I have one more thing to say, that the budget for next year is 878 million, and that is a big question about how it will be realized, especially that Valjevo has some problems relating to the establishment of the municipal assembly two months ago. For these reasons, I wanted the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Minister of Finance Mr Dinkic to accept my amendment and simply equalise the amount with last year's subsidy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10389	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10390	Mr. Vice President, I don't know if you've tried today to ensure the presence of the minister at this session, but it would be good for the minister to appear, because it is the dignity of this assembly and the dignity of the MPs who are trying to explain something that normally bothers them about this law. I fully agree with the predecessor and with the amendment of the predecessors in that section that speaks of the needs of the place from which he comes and there is no dilemma. I particularly agree with all the debaters who highlighted the problem of lack of clear and objective criteria on the basis of which the allocation of funds was carried out. It is a fundamental observation to this law because we think it is a volunteerism that is simply not suitable for the present conditions, and especially if we look at that situation that we did not have last and last year, or at least we had a completely different situation. But what is going through a number of amendments, of course, and the amendment of my colleagues I'm talking about now, is the issue of Belgrade. I would really ask fellow MPs to understand Belgrade's position, because it is not at all what it looks like at first sight. It is that, unlike the previous allocation system, when the percentage participation for municipalities was 8%, for cities 10%, and for Belgrade 15%, according to the current proposal, participation for all, for Belgrade, municipalities and cities is 40%. Then the minister tried to replace it with his proposal by predicting the 5,800,000 dinar transfer funds. We from the Democratic Party had a proposal to make these funds 12 times smaller. There's no dilemma for us that these transfer funds are too large. We have expressed our suspicion that exactly the amount of these transfer funds and their participation of 14.4% in the city's total budget may be subject to abuse by the finance ministry. So, we do not have a dilemma about the reduction of transfer funds, but we are asking that the principle that existed in previous years be maintained and that Belgrade now participates in this system instead of 40% with 58% in the income tax. It is simply necessary, Belgrade is our capital city and Belgrade has far greater needs than those of other municipalities. Now I'm going to show you what it looked like in the past few years, when it comes to these criteria. This law, of course, is now a second tax, because in the meantime we have introduced a value added tax, but it has looked like this: now a colleague from Valjev, and a colleague from Indjia, and a colleague from Loznica, and it is quite still, we stop and look at the exact criteria by which municipality the money belonged to, and these are objective criteria, there is no dilemma at all that we will very clearly establish. We can safely say that there has been no political abuse here and we can absolutely say that Loznica or Valjevo or Belgrade or any other city has received more or less money because there are no members of the party to which the minister belongs. This is what it looked like before, please remember, it wasn't like that long ago, we adopted this, I think eight months ago. Now it's the law we're talking about, now it looks like this. Four sides of everything and it's a simple list of the cities and the amount of funds that belong to them, and we come into a situation where we, the MPs here, are going to get together, and now everyone has to turn out to be a patriot in front of their constituents and say, "Here, I fought for my city." It's not about that, we don't have anyone to take from, we have each other, and we're all one. It's just that there are no objective criteria and that we can't assess how the distribution of these funds really is done. Now there's something else I need to tell you about Belgrade. In nominal terms, Belgrade's budget will be even slightly smaller than the 2004 budget. Realistically, given inflation, it'll come out less, maybe 20 percent. Now, I'll read you a part of our explanation. Based on this proposed financing structure for the city of Belgrade for 2005, the city loses around 3.5 billion dinars compared to its current financial status. Given that the city's 2004 budget is damaged by around 2 billion dinars in the same way, it results in Belgrade leaving almost 20 per cent of the budget under observation in the two years under observation, which seriously calls into question the financing of current needs, then the reconciliation of commitments for the programmes and projects taken over, and in particular the reconciliation of commitments under the concluded credit agreements with international organisations. In particular, we draw attention to the financing agreement signed between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the government has pledged to support the implementation of envisaged investment projects, guaranteeing stable and predictable sources of financing for the city of Belgrade. We believe that a 5 billion-dollar transfer is neither stable nor a secure source of funding. It not only depends on how the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister will have the money provided for in the budget for transfers, but simply depends on whether the republican budget is charged adequately. In addition, it is necessary for the Belgrade city to provide opportunities for the realisation of loans from the European Investment Bank, which is scheduled to finance 50 per cent of the city's budget and 50 per cent of the city's budget. I read all of this not to complain now, of course that Belgrade should be in the same position as all of Serbia's cities, but that position must be seen on the basis of objective criteria that we unfortunately do not have today. This is the practice that has now been introduced, and which I hope will never happen again, and that this position will not come to these positions that we MPs here are bidding on who will take more money with their amendment, who from one place will turn out to be more patriot than the one from another place.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10391	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10392	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course no one will argue with Belgrade or Belgrade, but we are obliged to say a few things that are important for the citizens of Serbia. The budget of the Meroshin municipality for this year was projected at 50 million dinars. That's how much this fountain costs on the streets of Serbian rulers here in Belgrade. Of course no one's against a nice fountain. As many as 450 million are only ex-post works for the Pion Park garage in the past year past contracts and criteria. There must be a control of the funds spent. One garage in the Pionni Park garage costs as a three bedroom apartment in Belgrade. If someone proves to me that it's normal and that it's legal, they're gonna have to go through a lot of trouble. This is not about whether someone wants to take money from those of Belgrade's position, but about the fact that small municipalities cannot wait for the next budget year with a positive result. I supported today's amendment to Wildlife Dacin. Help to vote the amendment, animate citizens of Belgrade, let only 20 dinars a month, that is 518 000 euros a month. From these funds and budgets, such as all small local communities in Serbia and all poor municipalities, you can make a miracle, but don't expect to uncritically spill funds into Belgrade and build everything just here. Dear gentlemen, in Cačka, which is neither a small nor a poor town, from self-delivery funds built a bridge on Moravi, a sports hall, a southern fecal collector, a system called Rzav, several primary and secondary schools, a higher school facility, one of the most modern hospitals in Serbia. Well, it won't be that it's the only place to raise funds from citizens, and all the citizens here have to pay for it to be built in Belgrade. It's not normal and it's not correct. We are not against Belgrade, but we are for elementary honesty in the distribution of budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10393	Replica, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10394	Dear colleagues, I fully understand your efforts and I agree with you, but I think you have the wrong idea about Belgrade on this matter. First, I want to tell you that if it is solidarity, if we should measure as many cities, municipalities, etc. participates in the country's revenues, the figure would be that Belgrade participates almost 40 per cent of the country's revenues. So you're wrong about that, but it has nothing to do with this whole story again, that's logical, because the seats of all the major companies are in Belgrade, etc., so I don't want to go into that question at all. I want to tell you that Belgrade, after Tirana, is the city that is the least covered by the sewerage network in Europe, so don't let our interior viewers now have the idea that Belgrade doesn't know what's extra and that I don't know how much money flows down. That's something you should know. Another thing, as far as self-indulgence is concerned, I don't know if you knew about this data, but I'll tell you that I think about 23% of Belgrade is covered in draining and a large percentage is mixed, both rainy and fecal. I don't know if the citizens know it, but it's simply true, it's huge money, which, unfortunately, this country has nothing to do with Belgrade itself, it's so huge an asset that it's supposed to cost the state and exactly these projects that we've talked about and that need to have stable sources of funding, they can't be implemented unless Belgrade has these stable funds. Belgrade is practically in the same situation as other Serbian cities, nothing in Belgrade is in this sense better quality of life. It's just that I think you're the one who got into that trap that I'm talking about. Are we talking about whether your place has more money now than mine or whether you are unfairly damaged compared to Belgrade? No one here is unjustly or justly damaged, this is about the fact that there are no criteria on which the funds are allocated. That's what this is about. As far as self-indulgence is concerned, in many local communities in Belgrade, self-indulgence is a regular phenomenon, do not think that we do not know what self-indulgence is. It's in Belgrade, and Mrs. Dacin's amendment will be supported. There's no need to argue with us in that direction. We're staying with our principled remarks again. This law cannot be made like this without criteria and cannot be allowed to place all municipalities and all cities in the same status, not taking into account, in this respect, objective criteria, nor should we question the objectivity of the Republic government towards local self-government, depending on who is the mayor. So, we continue to express our suspicion that this is about trying to abuse the Ministry of Finance's position against the city of Belgrade, with 14.4 per cent of Belgrade's total revenues depending on the goodwill of the finance ministry. So, please don't bring this down for discussion – for Belgrade and against Belgrade. This is a discussion for all of us. We are looking for objective criteria based on which we can clearly determine why someone has received so much transfer funds and why someone, after all, has been given the opportunity to participate in the income tax of citizens with that percentage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10395	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The cities of the 2nd Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic to Article 3(a). The proposing representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10396	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I repeat yesterday and today the story that it is very sad that we are already discussing the second day, and there is no Minister of Finance. Is, like one of our colleagues said, he's in the woods or I'm not interested, like all of you here. But it's very important for the finance minister to be in the O.R. and answer all the questions. We here, in particular, have questions, information that we want to clarify with him. It is obvious that such a gesture does not give rise to the Assembly, but it speaks enough of the minister himself, and of the government. What I had as an amendment to Article 3, also related to the amendment that we together colleague Nenad Bogdanovic, the mayor of Belgrade and I have submitted, which we really consider to be a fairer distribution than is stated in the law. We felt that municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade should be represented differently as participation in the profit tax concerns and that this should not be a uniform rate of 40%. That's what I'm saying because back in three, four, five years we had a different rate. It was 58% for the city of Belgrade, 50% for the towns of Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad and 45% for other municipalities. The funds collected on the basis of sales taxes were to be allocated to replace the amount that municipalities and cities collected and which was missing so that congregations, or local self - administrations could function uninterruptedly. What is it that we resent? Because when the budget was created, the minister filled the budget deficit with funds that local self-government had achieved, which would be achieved on the basis of the 2005 transfer funds. And you have information that he predicted the transfer funds of 13.8 billion. You'll agree, that's what most of my predecessor colleagues said, much less than it was in 2004, than it was in 2003. That's a fact. Now that you've made a distribution, you'll see that all the other local self-governments have far less budgets both nominally and realistically than it was not for 2004, but for 2003 and backwards. That's why we thought it was a fairer, more logical division to allow and the cities to get what's theirs. We have now come into the trap that the minister has set for us, that the representatives of local self-government are gnawing among themselves and that they try to kidnap each other, most of all Belgrade, because with this division of Belgrade, they get a very large amount, which when you look at 5,600,000 thousand and when you look at cities, for example for Novi Sad – 740, Kragujevac, – 300, Nis – 500, and about smaller municipalities that I don't even talk about, and that's what bothers us. We can't let ourselves get into a trap. As an MP from Kragujevac, I'm not asking for a Kragujevac charity, I'm looking for a real setup. That doesn't require any of you who comes from your local self-government, while representing your citizens, asking for charity. They're looking for a real amount and it's a normal setting. Last year in March you had a chance, when the government was formed and when it was proposed this law, that Kragujevac was cut off 200 million. Now it's been cut off by all local self-government. You will see, as of January, we will depend on the minister, whether the 15th or 25th of January will forward the transfer funds to us. It's something we think of as surreal thinking, upside down by setting up the functioning of local self-government, and it's a complete absence of sound thinking, that local self-government needs to create their own future. Not to fall into a trap – why Belgrade makes itself two, three or five fountains or parking space, let's make every local self-government of its own means that it collects develops in the way it should develop. That's healthy thinking. In this way, Mr Bogdanović and I and through the amendment to Article 2, and I, through the amendment to Article 3, felt that the fairer division represented by the DS was. Obviously, Mr Dinkic, who is in the woods today, has no thoughts and obviously has a problem, but this problem, I sincerely hope, will be resolved in some new future elections, when we set up a healthy government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10397	Thank you. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and not talk about the private lives of other persons. Here you go, Mr. Albianic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10398	So, the predecessor presents a whole series of untruths at the expense of the minister, and I don't know with what right, who exactly gives you the right to talk about this pay phone? The character and work of the said Mr. Radosavljevic of Kragujevac is that he waved cards at a press conference claiming there was evidence that there was no vote from Bodrum. You'll have to show that evidence in court. As far as Kragujevac is concerned, I don't know what right you're talking about Kragujevac, when you don't have any part in it, and Kragujevac has earned some funds as well. So the more you get distracted, the more damage you do to yourself. I can tell you that both your head and your heart have grown more and more. You need to get serious here, to prove which faction you belong to, to which you are now proving yourself, or maybe you can't atone for your sins, and I'm telling you that sins are redeemed elsewhere. So wash yourselves, cleanse yourselves, remove the wickedness of your works, for it is no longer appropriate here to be spoken in such a way, that you address yourselves in this way, because for your sins in another place you must redeem yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10399	I thank Mr. Albianic. This was a replica, so, according to the Rules of Procedure, you're misread, I guess. It's not about sins. It's about attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10400	Obviously, Mr Albianic has given himself the right to take office as well, since a man has become more in power and likes to take charge, but as far as I'm concerned, I express the satisfaction that there is a representative of the government, such as Mr Albianić's character and work. As far as DS and I are involved personally in the Kragujevac government, it is true, we are not in power. The DS lost the election in September of this year, but G17 was a statistical error in Kragujevac. So much for that. In itself, Mr. Albianic speaks enough about the party he belongs to. I heard they're planning to change you. Please, G17 people - do not do this, you are really in the best way pictures and opportunities of the government and the group you represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10401	Thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic. This was according to the Rules of Procedure, but I warn you, then I warn the other messengers, please do not insult the congregation according to article 100. This is not where the representatives of the government sit, this is where the representatives of the citizens and the political parties sit. There's no power here. Be kind, if you want to deal with the government, you have, and in particular, don't think that there are representatives of the judiciary sitting here, fortunately, it's divided. Here you go, as an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10402	So I really don't think such characters belong to some democratic variant, they're individuals that nobody likes to listen to. Anyway, what's the matter? The political stage is a good thing. It's a good thing and it's a real theater. But I say to a group of MPs like this that can only be statisticians on a stage like this, and G17 plus they're the real actors who lead the show forward to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10403	Thank you, if we're done with this part. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Just a moment, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jaksic? By amendment, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10404	Dear People's MPs, I'm glad we're back on the subject, and the subject can be very broad. In the light of this amendment, as well as some other amendments, except that false, or inaccuracy, there is a lot of inconsistencies, so it would be good to remind ourselves of something that we are doing as a Assembly or what we have done in previous councils as a parliament. So it is said on several occasions through the reasons for the amendments that the funds are not allocated under this law, according to the proposal of this law, according to certain criteria, and that this has been done before, and this is not the case now. It is not true, you have in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, where it is said, there is one introduction, and so it is said – the income allocated due to changes in tax regulations and works distributed according to the following criteria. So this is a proposal that I suppose will be adopted, which by its own content, when we talk about what criteria are, so the population number, the number of departments, the number of primary and secondary schools, the number of children, the status of the environment, the degree of underdevelopment, etc. These criteria were the same criteria or very similar under which the allocation of additional funds was made, which under the earlier law were allocated to local self-governments in 2003 and 2004. That's a fact. We now have the same proposal of article 99 in front of us in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government. Therefore, it is not true that there are no criteria and it is not true that, according to earlier criteria, these allocations of additional funds have been made, and that the distribution of transfer funds is now not carried out by some criteria, that is not true. Secondly, local self-government will have a situation to depend on how the government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, and when they will be allocated those transfer funds, and earlier there were additional funds which were also allocated and determined by the government under certain laws. So that's not true. An attempt to create an image to make local self-government now dependent on an incendiary or illegal way from the government, or the Ministry of Finance, is not correct. To the same extent, as regulated by law, these funds were allocated to local self-government, in a similar manner now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10405	Following the same amendment, MP Milan Markovic. He hasn't spoken under this amendment, please, about the amendment to the same member of the law, but it's not the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10406	I was talking about the amendment that a colleague from Valjev submitted earlier, and now I'm reporting for this amendment, because I think it's a good amendment, and I just had to react, because in a later discussion, if we excuse what's causing more or less laughter here, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that's Mr. Albianic's exposure, if we exempt it, then we have a preliminary exposure. I think we should get that straight about the criteria. The criteria are indicated, but I have shown you fellow Members, both to the MPs and to the public, how these criteria have been applied. We have the criteria, I say, okay, there are some criteria, it doesn't matter, now let's not list them, they're listed here in Article 9, but we need to know how these criteria affect specific resources from the municipality to the municipality and I'm talking about it. So here I showed the old law, where exactly what criteria are influencing and we can say, say, a colleague from Valjev, a colleague from Loznica, sit down and talk about it and there is no dilemma or dispute whether or not they are respected criteria. So, you can see it completely, all the numbers are broken down. There is no doubt that we are expressing, which is that this is about some political manipulation or political abuse by the finance minister. Here, if the minister had given it this way, no one would have the right to suspect it, since he didn't give it this way, and if he had changed that principle of participation that used to be 8, 10, 15, and now he's put it all in one plane, we rightly express our suspicion and I don't think you can dispute it. So this is, fellow, about criteria, not to argue that criteria are mentioned, but the issue of whether criteria are applied and nothing further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10407	I ask the messengers not to be saddened by other MPs in the future. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd part of the floor (a) Towns at point 1 and part under (b) of the municipalities at points 54 and 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, in my amendment, I have proposed an increase in transfer funds for the municipalities of Jagodin and for Rekovac. In some strange mathematics or strange account, the Ministry of Finance almost halved the amount of transfer funds for the Municipality of Jagodin. For example, for 2004, this amount was 134 million, and for 2005, the amount is now proposed by 71 million. We believe that this is almost double the amount of funds and, most importantly, I think that the criteria for determining the amount of transfer funds are very vague and relative, and when it comes to the degree of development of the municipality, even when it comes to the number of employees. For example, Jagodina may be the best example where we have a large number of businesses where workers do not receive salaries or receive several thousand dinars, and these small salaries are not paid taxes or contributions. This way, it will be questioned, on the basis of the income tax, by the very budget of the Municipality of Jagodin. On the other hand, I think, and if we ignore all these criteria, it's especially important for Jagodina that we have privatisation, sales, restructuring, whatever you want, of the largest sea giant, cable factories in early 2005. That means, we've seen, over the three years, every restructuring, every privatisation, every reduction in the number of workers, the number of employees by almost 50%. That's how it's expected at the Jagodina cable factory to reduce the number of employees, maybe by 2,000 people, and what does that mean? So there won't be any pay, there won't be any profit, and there won't be any opportunity to make a tax based on profit. Of course, that is how this budget of the strawberry municipality will be questioned. When it comes to the second part of the amendment, I also suggested that the transfer funds for the Rekovac municipality increase by five million. It is about the funds that were planned in 2004. The river had 24 million transfer funds for 2004, and now 19 million. It's about an undeveloped municipality, where it literally has very few employees. The rector sort of shares the fate of the Jagodin municipality, because there is simply a drive of the cable factory, with now about 300 employees, and when it comes to privatisation, sales, it's likely that these people will be out of a job. What's most important, and it's important for both Jagodina and Rekovac, these people who are going to be out of work will most likely run out of hope, the possibility of being hired in another way. There was simply no good social programme in Serbia. Even in large companies that are privatized, such as cementers, even tobacco industries, these social programs were not good. Because that money that you get is very fast spent and people after a year or two are left without any possibility of hiring, but, of course, it's just one segment. This second segment, when I talk about the Rekovac municipality, means that I don't believe that they will be able to fill their budget easily, given that these 300 workers mean a lot to the municipality. And we had one good example of selling two social enterprises over the last year and this year, where people didn't lose their jobs but they ran out of pay. So no profit, no taxes, no budget. For these reasons, I have proposed this amendment. I'm counting on the minister to meet our special criteria. I specifically noted the Jagodina cable factory, including the drive in Rekovac, where after privatization people will lose their jobs and where they won't be able to make a profit tax, because there won't be any profits. It is my proposal that these funds be taken from Belgrade, not falling into other criteria, because Belgrade, when it comes to transfer funds, of 13,800,000, should collect or receive 5,600,000, which is a lot, and it is quite clear that almost half of the funds belong to Belgrade, and I think it is unfair.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10409	Thank you. Anyone else want a tail on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd part B of the Municipality, MP Zoran Tanasijević withdrew the amendment. On Article 3rd part B) of the Municipality at points 27, 70, 76, 84, 92 and 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the bill that is under discussion before the National Assembly is obviously not important enough for the Serbian government. If he were a different finance minister, Mr Dinkic, he would be present today for this debate. But certainly, if we look at the draft of this law not together with the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, in order to be normal, then we would look together at the draft budget law, where the amount of transfer funds of 13.8 billion is foreseen, and we warned that this was not enough to provide funds for the normal functioning of local self-government, but unfortunately we did not have a chance to look at how these funds would be allocated. It would be much easier for all these questions, which are only agreeable to other cities, MP issues, Mr. Minister can answer directly. Perhaps the analysts he served had some meaning, but apparently, in addition to so many amendments and such objections to the bill, I'm not sure there was an exact criterion and some analyst that could be explained here in a good way. These comparative tables, which show that revenue is expected to be realised in 2004, which are replaced by revenues based on transfer funds and income through profit tax, were not presented to MPs. This is the paper the minister delivered to the Finance Committee. It would have been better if the MPs had received one such proposal, so perhaps we could clarify a lot of things before the debate took place. To be honest, the amendment I submitted refers to an increase in the transfer funds for all the municipalities of the Colubary County. I've contacted all local self-governments, community presidents, people in charge of budget projections at the bar, and it's truly a unanimous assessment that it's very uncertain whether the funding provided by the Law on the distribution of transfer funds and by the participation of municipalities and cities in profit tax will ensure normal functioning of local self-government. It's one thing to worry about, and it's logical that local self-governments ask to increase and expect these funds to increase, transfer funds, which are only certain and which, I say, provide greater guarantees than those expected through income from profit tax. When I talk about the Municipality of Valjevo, as the largest municipality of Kolubar County and the district centre, for which I have submitted an amendment that these funds in part of the transfer funds are increasing by 73 million, I can say that, as was the case in the explanation of MEP Belic, who also submitted the amendment to this article, will completely unrealistically expect that real earnings in the Municipality of Valjevo, given the overall situation in the Valjev economy, where the situation is completely dramatic, is a huge number of unemployed, given everything that we expect in the coming year, and from this table review, it results in that nominal growth in earnings will be far above the expected inflation rate. The index shown in the last column is 103 for the municipality of Valjevo. I wish there was a minister present, who obviously had, or didn't, some criteria that are exact and which can be defended, to explain where that prediction came from. All other municipalities in the Kolubar district also have a very low degree of infrastructure construction and it is difficult to expect that they will be able to function normally with one of these budget projections. So, not to repeat now that story with the funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, which are also planned in the 2004 budget projection, at a level of 500 million, and the rebalance has been returned to 200 million, so the reconstruction of infrastructure in these municipalities is threatened to a dramatic level. All start objects, and I'm talking about objects that are of social importance, so schools, facilities of public institutions, of course, and that the means to eliminate these consequences and individual objects are something else, that they have a social character and that the situation there is far more dramatic. What has been repeated here several times -- criteria which were either a starting point or a basis for determining this distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are not in one logical way presented to the MPs and have not been available to all, so that we can clarify a lot of issues related to the distribution of these funds before the debate in particular. I'm not sure that 13.8 billion were and could be distributed so that most municipalities would be satisfied. But what is really devastating here, and I would like to point out once again that by analysing certain items in the proposed funds, there can be very clear conclusions that political coalitions have been taken into account, which parties are in power in the coalition, in certain cities, and this goes on burden and on the soul of the party G17. He has information that it has been promised and promised that there will be a little more tolerance and that a slightly different criterion will be for such municipalities, although this more careful view can be clearly seen that there has been a lot of this. I don't see that Mr. Albianic can answer these questions which are essential questions of nature and...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10411	I see it's been seven minutes. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10412	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment, as well as many previous ones, clearly points to the fact that there was a very clear criterion in the distribution of funds to municipalities in Serbia. One of the basic criteria... And I'm a minister, and who I really have to realize is not here, unfortunately, while the other minister is sitting outside the door waiting for us to finish this. It would've been nice if this first guy was keeping him company, even if he was drinking coffee out front, because he can see on the monitor that we're working...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10413	Please don't talk about the private life of other persons, be kind, it's a duty under the Rules of Procedure. Please continue on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10414	Mr. Chairman, this isn't about private life, this is the Minister of State's obligation to discuss...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10415	Please, who's going to drink coffee with is a private matter, be kind and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10416	No, if he was drinking coffee in the break while he was listening to the MPs, that's what I was thinking, I'd say he's not here right now if he went out to have coffee. I wish he were here and he could listen to our amendments and objections to this law, because that is, among other things, his obligation as a member of the government and a minister who is authorized to propose this law to the National Assembly. So, no argument as to why he's not here today simply doesn't exist. I appreciate the time of the second minister sitting outside the door waiting for us to finish this, and perhaps sooner if Mr Dinkic were here today. That's what I was talking about. So, to continue on the criteria, they are clear and very precise, and consistently implemented by Mr Dinkic and the Ministry, which is the participation of G17 plus in the bodies of local self-government. Examples for this are repeatedly mentioned, and I'm just going to list some, for example. Password, Frog, Bucky Petrovic. Loznica is a place that has twice as many inhabitants as Zrenjanin, and it has received 30% more funds than Zrenjanin, etc. One of the terrible examples of budget redistribution is the Vojvodina I come from, and I would like the minister to be there when we talk about it, because he did not respect the Vojvodina Assembly's minimum attention, although he found out that as many as 105 MPs voted in favour of the Vojvodina Executive Council's proposal on budget rebalancing and the recommendation that the Serbian Parliament accepts on the government's proposal on budget rebalances that would correct inadmissible injustices in relation to the AP Vojvodina budget. Nor was that sufficient reason for the five MPs of the G17 Plus Group in the Vojvodina Assembly to support the government's proposal, which is headed by a member of the DS. So much for consistency and the minister, but also for MPs. Thank God, there are those who can understand the arguments and who, fortunately, are not deceived by the prime minister of the Vojvodina government, as it is Mr Dinkic in one of his failed performances...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10417	Mrs. Stojačić, I remind you once again to speak on the subject, you are required to speak on the subject according to the Rules of Procedure. The amendment is the subject, referring to Valjevo, Lajkovac, Ljig, Mionica, Osijek and Ub, and none of these cities are in Vojvodina. Please, it's basic data, you're talking about this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10418	Of course they're not in Vojvodina, but of course they don't have G17 plus in their government, and that's why we were forced to submit that amendment. We were forced to bear it because we needed some other argument, because the fact that G17 plus there was not in the power of Mr Dinkic knew, as such an argument he respected and denied these municipalities the budget disproportionately and unworthy of the importance that these municipalities have. He got what he asked us to stand up to each other here today, trying to protect the interests of the local self-government we come from. He tried to tell us and proved that in this situation, the G17 plus, as before, only takes care of its own interest that he recognizes at a given time. At some point, he recognized here the interest of the municipalities being deployed as well as necessary. In Vojvodina, he recognized the interest of supporting something the minister had not been for, and in Novi Sad he recognized the interest of supporting the election of the president of the newly-sed municipality of Ms. SRS. So I don't understand why Mr. Albianic is trying so hard to wash himself out of co-operation, when it is quite clear that in a local self-government co-operation with the SRS there is. That's a fact. If you did, I don't see why you'd run away from it or why you'd justify yourself or even more why you'd be ashamed. That same gentleman is an MP for this republican assembly. So again, I regret the fact that we are not in a position to tell Mr Dinkic, I regret the fact that Mr Dinkic has not responded to any of our calls to hear our remarks and that at the very least... (President: Time. ) And if he tried to, as Mr. Albianic would say, depriving his actions at least a little less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10419	Thank you very much. So this time it ended on warnings, and it concerns all MPs. This kind of abuse of the pay phone, when it is quite clear that the amendments are related, and it is well spoken of by Mr. Milovan Markovic, to the needs of cities that have their names, which have the clear needs of their citizens, to talk about something completely different instead, I think it is simply incorrect and we end up on the alert, but in the future we will be giving warnings. That applies to you, too, Mr. Albianic. I hope you'll talk about this topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10420	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but I must remind you that the Democrats are in the coalition in Negotin and Surdulic with the SRS, so I would like you to explain the situation. Mrs. Stojačić, as Momchilu was down to his knees, the Wolfessa is on the ground. And let me tell you something, you can wear DS laps as much as you want, you can stand out here at the pay phone, but you know yourself that in that intention you can go too far. You came from another party to the DS and simply to justify your transition. As for you and such crossings, I must ask you, indeed, whether you have not raised your voice in the DS to exorcise Chad, so you must continue to court. I'm asking you, maybe you don't like bribes and go after gifts. Tell me here at the pay phone what your particular interest is and let go of the G17 plus. G17 plus is a party that will show you that all parties to democratic options are leading to Europe. We will be the headquarters around which people gather around the idea of creating a better, stronger, democratically strong Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10421	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, so I assume you do, too, is that right, Mrs Stojačić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out to discuss Mrs. Stojacic. She probably doesn't want to accept the fact that she enjoyed not only the citizens of Novi Sad, but the citizens of Serbia as a whole. Now I'll tell you, Mrs Stojačić, since you mentioned the way and the day of the vote, the election of thanks to the god of the President of the City Assembly of Novi Sad from the ranks of the SRS. After the election of Ms. Maja Gojkovic by citizens for mayor, if you don't know it and if it doesn't suit you, I will tell you what the Novosadians know and what the vast majority of Serbian citizens know, Novi Sad is free again. The new Sad was freed after eight years of harassing and ruling the Democratic Party and all those who supported it in the robbery of Novosadjans, in all that they did to court those who do not want well neither Serbia nor the AP Vojvodina. If this one committee member, mentioned by you, voted in favour of a radical candidate who was elected president of the City Assembly in the day of election, be assured that he is, unlike you, aware of his responsibility and the interest of Novi Sad, Vojvodina and Serbia, he has done what is best for Novi Sad, and that the citizens will know and see it in the coming period. And you as a new member of the Civil Union of Serbia, a flyover to the Democratic Party, are left to seek after the next election a new party, because the Democratic Party will be what the Civil Union of Serbia is after the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10423	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10424	Respecting the findings made by Mrs Jovanovic that Novi Sad has been released, I only find that he has been released with the help of MPs G17 plus and I congratulate them on that. For the Democratic Party, that's enough. Yes, I was a member of the Civil League of Serbia and I am proud of it. I was a member of a party that had the courage and courage for the past 10, 12 years to say everything that many did not, to stand up for democracy in Serbia, to fight the evil that we have all witnessed together in the last decade of the 20th century. As you know, the Civil Union of Serbia has been in a coalition with the Democratic Party all this time, which as a fact no one can dispute and which I am also proud of. The civil union of Serbia has contributed greatly to changing the way your parties think and in many ways bringing certain civil segments into their ranks, changing their statutes, changing their programmes. The civil union of Serbia is still in the image of members who have moved to the Democratic Party and play an active role in Serbia's democratisation. So don't worry about the future of the Democratic Party, because if you had the courage to face the fact that the Democratic Party is at this point the strongest party in Serbia, you wouldn't have been so convulsing about the chairs you have. Also, we wouldn't have so much crampedly helped each other in all possible and impossible coalitions, fearing some future elections at any level. So, gentlemen, there are no problems and don't think that any of us can be offended by the mention of the Civil Union of Serbia or the Democratic Party. We're proud to be members of that party and we're proud not to be in a coalition with any of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10425	Given that today's election assembly of the Civil Union of Serbia is better off waiting for them to finish, so let's hear the programme then. National MP Milan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10426	Mr. Vice President, this is about you. I'd really like to ask you not to cheer up the MPs any further. Mr. Albianic has already done it enough and there is no need for you, as chairman, to act here as a spokesman for the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10427	Mr. Markovic, I would like to ask you in future when you report to the Rules of Procedure to quote a member to whom you refer and what occasion you are reporting. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10428	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Angelkovic, I am reporting for any member of the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure obliges us to speak the truth in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and only the truth, from the first to the last member. As we are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, we must, when we address each other, and especially the citizens of Serbia, only deal with facts. I'm reporting to warn Mrs. Stojacic that she's only telling the truth in the future. You said only one party from which you went to another, and I'll tell you Mrs. Stojačić that you have more membership cards of various parties than the Olympic flags.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10429	I realized this is per article 100. Rules of Procedure. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10430	We have become accustomed in the last 15 years to various untrues from the ranks of the Serbian Radical Party, and unfortunately lately to various untruths from the parliamentary benches of various other political parties. Each of us is proud of the fact that someone is attacking them from the ranks that we consider undemocratic, against which we have fought since the beginning of democracy, democratic life and multilaterals in Serbia, against which we will fight as long as the Democratic Party exists and as long as it is the strongest party in Serbia, and it will grow stronger thanks to everything you say and what you do for this assembly speaker. I now have a second membership card, and the first membership card was the Civil League of Serbia. This second membership card is the Democratic Party because the people of the Civil Union of Serbia, who want good to this Serbia, considered it necessary to round up the political scene of Serbia and the common forces, all the forces we have, are fighting against you who are blocking that democratisation. Serbia is in such a bad situation right now that it has no right to stop, let alone go back. I'm afraid he's going back and forth with big steps. I'm afraid that everything you read in the paper today, from the fact that 40 million is denied, the budget of the Republic of Serbia due to the privatisation of the "Knjiza" in a criminal way, and that we will easily overturn it, a shame for Serbia. I fear it is a shame for Serbia and what is now being done with military property, including Minister Davinic. I'm afraid it's a shame for Serbia that everything that's about the National Savings Bank and everything that's not done, and nothing about privatisation, is not about attracting foreign capital and investment, it's not about what you've all committed yourselves to when you adopted the Resolution on European Integrations. That's the point, so call all of us. Mr. Albianic, laugh, it looks like you've been playing clown in the Assembly ever since you were appointed head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10431	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10432	It is polite in this assembly to talk about what is the current situation in Serbia, and the current situation in Serbia is that we have never been worse. The current situation in Serbia is that the people have come this far. The current situation in Serbia is such that the locale no longer knows who is doing what.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10433	Mrs Stojačić, can we talk about the subject in the Rules of Procedure, and we'll talk about the current situation when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10434	This is the topic, Serbia is the topic. The topic is the redistribution of budgets by local self-government by only one criterion, and that is the criterion of how many members of G17 plus in which local self-government are present. Since there are so few of them, then they've made an effort to get as little money in these municipalities where they are, to allow themselves to stay where they are for a little while. That's the theme. I'm afraid it's a subject that interests us all, and I'm afraid it's a subject that we're going to have to talk about very soon in some future elections, because this government has never had less support than it has now. This is a government no other government in Serbia's history has had less support. This is a government that rules only with an unprincipled coalition here in the republican parliament, with an increasingly frequent quorum given by the Serbian Radical Party, to begin the work of the Assembly, as well as to vote on the laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10435	Mrs. Stojacic, don't provoke my tolerance. Miko, I didn't give you my word. Sit tight. I saw you raise your hand, and then you get your word. Don't doubt I'll see who raised his hand. I ask the MPs not to train here, I would say, the President's tolerance, but to try not to discuss who is coming from which party and how many times, who has supported who in Serbia, as well as other topics. Let's get back to community budgets, what's on the agenda. First MP Petar Jojic, then Mika Vlaovic, and then you reported the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Petar Jojic, thank you for giving up. And Mika Vlaovic gives up. Here you go. Deputy head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10436	I thank my colleagues who gave up in a reasonable attempt to return this discussion to a slightly more peaceful and rational flow. However, I am reporting for a replica, because the G17 Plus MP group and the G17 Plus party were mentioned in a very negative context and that is something that is really unacceptable. Neither is the party G17 plus the topic of our assembly debate, nor is it lawful to present such untruths and insinuations for this speaker. But for us in G17 plus it's quite clear why G17 plus is a topic of political debate, why G17 plus is the theme of some media hacks being led in Serbia. Our people say "for a good horse, dust rises." G17 plus is a working party, which keeps its pre-election promises, which is responsible for Serbia's citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that a full of lies have been told here. Why? Because this year we had an eight-percent growth in gross social product, which was not recorded in the previous years, because we were returning loans, debts to our citizens. Some previous governments have made these debts, some of the governments that came after that were unable to serve, but this government and G17 plus, as someone responsible for finance, these debts, ladies and gentlemen, are paying back, so this year we returned 350m euros of old foreign savings and we even started paying back credit for Serbia's rebirth. G17 plus did a lot of other things. We adopted all together, though the ruling majority in this assembly during this year 84 laws, on which I congratulate all of us and for the sake of comparison I will tell you that the previous government passed only 47 laws in the previous year. Half of these laws were proposed this year by G17 Plus ministers. That's why we now have better medications and safer drug traffic. We regularly serve pensions, external debts that we also didn't make. 62% of the debt to the London Club was written off. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time this year has received a credit rating, for the first time in its history, which is also the merit of this government and the people working in this government within the portfolio that G17 plus has taken over. Of course, when you're doing all this, you have to be the subject of criticism of those who haven't been able to do it all. It is completely understandable and the G17 plus is ready to deal with these criticisms, but it will also not be hesitated in its intention to continue working hard for the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10437	I hope we get back to the agenda after we've discussed everything. The only thing we haven't discussed is who's driving the drawer, so let's see if there's anyone under this article on the amendment to Part Three under "B" discussion. MP Rajko Baralic. Mr. Baralich, if you asked for a word, please return first, insert the card, and then come and get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10438	Create an electronic system that's immune to the cell phone, then the cards won't jump out as we speak. In the schedule of MPs in SPS colleagues Milomir Minić and I cover Kolubarski, Šumadijski and Moravički district. Col. Milovan Markovic submitted an amendment concerning several municipalities of the Kolubar region and two reasons why I want to support this amendment. First of all, this area suffered great damage due to the elemental disasters, several earthquakes that took place in the past few years, and the municipality of Valjevo itself suffered huge losses during NATO aggression, not only the Krusik factory, but also a whole series of other industrial and municipal facilities. The government of the Republic of Serbia would have to have a special degree of understanding for both these criteria and for those municipalities and cities that have suffered serious damage during NATO aggression and those municipalities that have suffered damage from elemental disasters. I have to say, unfortunately, it's not taken care of enough. In such a situation is the municipality of Luciani, which also suffered damage to NATO aggression. I was trying to explain yesterday why it's important to get 20 million to rebuild the power plant in Luciani. This is why it is important for the Ministry of Finance, if there are conditions, if conditions are obtained for rebalancing or any correction during 2005, these two criteria take particular account of those who, in just one day, lost almost half of their industrial infrastructure, municipal facilities, industrial facilities, roads, railways, etc. It's not the same thing when a municipality of the sea, yesterday I talked about, several times to build the same facilities, because there's an accident that it's located in a thorny area or because there's an accident that if the NATO bomb's powerful man goes down on their capital facilities, they're in great danger. So, my colleague Markovic submitted an amendment, I don't know what motivation was, but I heard his explanation, and in any case I will support this amendment, which contributes to a more even transfer of funds to local self-government, and concerns several municipalities of the Kolubar region.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10439	According to the same amendment, MP Bojan Kekic has the same word. Allow me, until the MP arrives at the pay phone, to explain to you once again why, according to Rule 81(4), I have scheduled a session today. The basic reason is what we're talking about today, which is that citizens, local self-governments, are being passed the law as soon as possible, in order to get the money that is certainly insufficient. In this we all agree, but the only thing worse is that they have no law, no possibility and the other because this assembly works both on working days and Saturdays, in order to bring as many laws as possible and it is necessary that the next session be completed by 22nd, so that MPs can rest until 15 January. That's why it's so much pressure. Thank you for understanding. That's all the reasons. Here you go, Mr. Kekic, after Mr. Markovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10440	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow MPs, I have come to support this amendment by my colleague Markovic, but I am taking the opportunity to work at 17.50 p.m. today, and we will probably work until 18.00 p.m., just to remind all MPs, they will probably have a chance to talk to their municipal presidents tomorrow, that the Law on Local Self-Government, as regards the revenues of local self-government for 2004. By checking in the Department of Business, Budget, Treasury and Social Action of the Municipality of Požarec, we have come to know that the income defined in Article 98 of the Law, where the Republic is granted to the unit of local self-government, public income, income from independent activities, that they are not paid to local self-government, or to the municipality of Požarec throughout 2004. I would like to say right away that this amount is about 18,816,000 for the municipality of Pogorec, for the municipality of Velika Gradište 7,100,000 and for the municipality of Petrovac 7,100,000. I believe that this is not a coincidence and that the lack of that income towards local self-government concerns other cities. I would ask a colleague who is probably in front of the ministry in the first row, and I asked Minister Dinkic to answer that question when he was on the SPS parliamentary group, in the debate in principle I also asked for that answer and I did not get it. Therefore, local self-government has been denied for that part of the income. I do not believe that in the next 20 days until December 31st, when the legal deadline, the finance minister will succeed in replacing all local self-government with that income. For that reason, I have submitted an amendment that is likely to come Monday's turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10441	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd part B of the Municipality of 105th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. National MP Vladimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10442	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is not at all the result of some collection of cheap political points, but it was my wish, as well as the wish of my fellow MPs from the Municipality of Prokuplje, who had to withdraw their amendments, to really point out a difficult situation, in general in the municipality of Prokuplje and with certain indicators to prove that the Municipality of Prokuplje was damaged by such a transfer of republican funds. I've prepared these indicators here, but I see it's in vain to talk about it, because the finance minister isn't here to hear it, on the one hand, and on the other hand I think I can speak on behalf of all the municipalities of Toplico, Jablanička, Pcinjska County, that the moss is all damaged in this way, except maybe one that's related to birth, or the roots of the finance minister, and that's specifically the Municipality of Vlasotince. So comparing data from the Municipality of Vlasotina from where, as far as I know, the mother of Mr. Minister and the information of the Municipality of Prokuplje, only on the first few data, the Buyout received 59 million, the Vlasotince 66 million. The municipality has 48,501 inhabitants, and the municipality of Vlasotince 3,3.312 inhabitants. The number of primary schools, as well as the number of rural election units, or rural local communities, shows the difference. We heard from this pay phone a public promise from Mr. Secretary that this sort of thing would be possible to correct March 31st. I look forward to this date, and by then we may be a little quiet about all this, and otherwise we will present an even greater number of information that is in favour of the fact that this budget is shared by Topalovic's assets in the movie Marathonca run an honorary circle. All we have to do is get the answer to what our share is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10443	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Anyone else on this amendment? Here you are, MP Sava Urosevic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10444	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, I am very sorry that such an exact debate, which could have been exact, turned on a very important topic into a political debate and that the political arguments of the amendment's applicants would have a weight, must be handled with true data. My predecessor made one great lie. The total funds available for local self-government in Prokuplje is 245 million, and the total funds of the Municipality of Vlasotince 141 million. Therefore, the difference made in the transfer, I have no doubt that it is true, I did not verify that information, is completely normal, because other sources of income in the municipality of Prokuplje are significantly higher and the emphasis only on the level of transfer is the replacement of the thesis and the untrue notification of both MPs and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10445	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10446	My intention wasn't really to point out that the Vlasotins got more than they needed. The owners need, as an undeveloped municipality, to gain even more, but I wanted to point out that they did not use the right criteria, i.e. they did not respect the criteria of the law. If the code is legality, then compare Apatine and Breach to those indicators, so you'll see that I was telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10447	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go, Milan Markovic. I'm afraid there will be no more time, Mr. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10448	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it seems to me that all of this would be gone, and not a single part of the discussion that, unfortunately, comes out of what we all want when we discuss a certain point of the agenda. So it wouldn't have been all that if the minister had been present at this debate. However, he did not do so today, nor yesterday, as he did not carry out adequate consultations. The essence of what counterpart Jovanovic proposed is, as well as Mr Markovic's previous proposal, as well as the proposals from all colleagues who sought to raise funds for their local self-government, to allow the smooth functioning of these local self-governments. We're all aware that we're living in a state that doesn't have enough money and that when we get to these topics, normally we're all kind of a little bit excited, but what we're a little bit angry about is that we still don't see the criteria by which this distribution was made. In any case, I think it would be a little less damage if the minister were to carry out the consultations, if he could make up the bill again, and I don't think it would take him more than 48 hours. Then together we could, by emergency procedure, adopt the law without any problems, no conflict, no feelings of inequality among local self-government representatives. I especially appeal to the minister, so to speak, I would kill, here I am ending, another minute to the end, in a way that he would practically reassure us, although I fear after all we have seen that it is already too late, in which way he would convince us that it is still a need for political manipulation. Finally, with all due respect to my dear colleague from G17, I would really ask you to be serious when we talk about the pay phone here, because if you think it's "Knjiz Milos", if you think it's an affair with electricity, if you think all the affairs in Serbia-Montenegro's military, where the minister is from G17, if you think it's a sugar affair, if you think it's all a joy to Serbia, you know better, than I do, if you think it's a way to make Serbia happy, I would ask you to stop making Serbia happy and let go of the other helm of this country, which would do so in the right way. Since I see the MPs have already risen, that it is over, I am finishing this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-11-0.u10449	Mr. Markovic, please, it's not over. Of course, please, since you're already talking about art, there's a movie called "Aristoc", it's not the end when it's over, it's the end when I say it's the end, and it's the replica from the film. You don't think it applies to me, it's a replica from the movie. I ask all MPs, once again, the enormous gratitude for the effort you are making and I am truly sorry that part of the MPs depends so much on the minister that he was simply prevented today to help get the money to local self-government as soon as possible. This applies in particular to those MPs who have asked for less to be assigned to their cities than it has been allocated. I don't think that's correct, but anyway, I thank you, your families, and I ask you once again for your understanding. In accordance with Rule 81(4), I shall determine the follow-up on Monday as a working day, at 10.00 hours, at the same time as Article 80(3), only after the end of that session will the next session begin. Thank you.
