ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's something about the laws that we've had a chance to pass so far. The electoral law on diaspora is experiencing disaster, the Law on conflict of interest, in terms of those who have applied, how effective it will be; the Law on conflict of interest is experiencing great criticism in the public and the media; the Tax Procedure Act, we said, opens up some problems with corruption, because it is cheaper to give bribes or pay a penalty. And this law, I'm moving on to it now, also looks like a law that's quickly saved and breaking things over its knees. First of all, we're asking why the Ministry of Economic Relations' jurisdiction with the foreign affairs regarding a law regarding our internal legal order. We can't possibly understand that. This would be within the jurisdiction of the Law on Justice or the Law on State Administration and so on. The other thing, when things like this are broken over the knee, the expert public is ignored, on the one hand, and he's trying to semi-information to convince the National Assembly that it's a good law that we need to support. The law, i.e. the bill, was discussed in one session of all senior economic courts in Serbia on 17 March this year, and all the colleges of economic courts, all the economic courts in the Republic, gave a conclusion, which I will now read to you, which reads: "All the presidents of the trade courts stand at the position of their colleges, express a unique position on the jurisdiction of the registration of economic operators, and suggest that it should remain within the jurisdiction of the court. "They propose to refer the initiative to the relevant ministries and the Legislative Committee, and so on. Now there's a question why we didn't get it, why we weren't informed about it, and it's one law that, of course, goes deep into legal relations, into the legal order, and who else is going to declare it rather than economic courts. Commercial courts have pleaded, but no one here has told us that they are against this law and that they suggest that we stick to an existing solution. Secondly, when it comes to semi-information, it is somehow made known that it is a condition, a European directive, that it is the best European practice, and it is not said for what. It calls for the Internet, as if other systems can't be networked today and connected on the Internet, and so on. True, it is said that France, Germany and Austria are the countries of which we inherited the legal tradition, the rest of this system, so it is not said what is wrong with the German economic system and the German efficiency, when they have kept it all. In France, Austria and so on. Today is somewhat incomplete information, so we are not told that Croatia, and especially Slovenia, which has been admitted to the EU these days, has also retained a system of judicial registration of economic operators. These are semi-information, and the information of the right would be to tell us why Slovenia didn't do it, why Austria didn't do it, why Germany didn't do it, and not to say that Austria, Germany, France, Slovenia, Croatia and so on have an old system, which is not effective. Why isn't he effective? Why didn't we send someone there to see how they handled it, because they certainly didn't solve it in an inefficient way. In general, when in this legal order you want to do something better, then you usually switch from the management sector to the judicial sector, because it is known that the court is doing more seriously, that it works according to a certain procedure, and that is the general place. It's quite the opposite here. We're transferring something from jurisdiction here to administrative jurisdiction. In the present creature of things, in our abandoned administration, we find ourselves in a situation where we are seriously stuck if we adopt this law in an administrative way and in one way this law seems to be one jump into the dark. Why, as long as there is a register and there is a need for centralization as well. To be clear, no one is against the centralization of all this data. We are all aware that there is one whole series of economic operators, and these are small entrepreneurs that are registered with the municipality, all of them can be registered with economic courts and all of these donations that we have received can be used to improve the existing system, which is traditionally ours and which we know. Legal issues, they're not just legal and political, they're both cultural and traditional. Why don't we of those of whom we've learned and applied the registration we go and see how they've improved, how they've improved, how we stay with that system and not create a permanent process, start over, and we don't know how it's going to end. It's just as important for the business register that we're doing business with. Whether we deal most with the Scandinavian countries, whose system this is, or we do the most business with Germany, which is our business partner the largest, Austria, Italy, Slovenia; be careful, Italy has a completely different system in the chambers of commerce; Croatia, our environment here. Well, when the German reads our registration, it'll be closer to him than if she were a Scandinavian, because we're not gonna make it, and that's for sure, in a short time, to achieve those high-scadinavian results and effects that the system probably has. So, while we're pushing for her to remain in court registration, to keep her in court, we're also opposed to this agency. It looks like neither a fish nor a girl, nor a state body, nor a public service, has some board of directors, it has to be a state body, acting and operating under clear legal regulations, and there's no place or board of directors, no democratic administration, it's supposed to be a state body a couple of excellencies. That is why we propose that the entire register be united within the Higher Commercial Court in Belgrade, a special registration department, where registrations, or not registrations, would take place, but to keep records of all economic operators in the Republic of Serbia. It's the only way we'll be able to solve this problem in a short time, if it's that big. We will avoid that situation we had with the appeals courts, with great ambitions the appeals courts were defended in this assembly, and it was pointed out that without the appeals courts we couldn't do both, and then it turned out to be delayed and their application began in 2007. So much further than it made sense to pass that law. It could have been resolved in 2006 or 2007 and prepared in time, well and thoroughly, rather than led to a chaos that had to be corrected even by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3282	Thank you. The word is Mr. Tomic, who is authorized by this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could hear the previous speaker criticizing the very reason for the law's passing, and no fundamental criticism of the law itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3284	Excuse me, Mr. Tomic, we've already noticed, you've already spoken as an authorised representative for all 20 minutes, so you can only do the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3285	And I use the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3286	I'm sorry, I misread it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3287	Given what was in the previous period, and his party supported this concept of the law, he tells us that this speaker serves only for some demagogue reasons, and does not refer to the essential issues that these laws solve. We were saying that this is a fundamental and reform law, and that it is trying to facilitate the way in which businesses are registered, which contributes to the acceleration of registration and in that second segment that we have underlined as the most important, which is the public. It is through electronic databases and through Internet insights that the absolute public in the registration of business entities is provided. When the predecessor spoke about other systems in countries such as Austria, France and Germany, he forgets to say that in some other countries of Europe there is exactly this system and that it works in an extremely good way, that in these countries it is used only for two forms of registration of business entities, and these are companies and companies that are with us DOO. Therefore, what is used by us as an argument that the registry agency is not a state body, if the law is properly read, it will be seen that these are entrusted jobs done by the agency itself. Therefore, please use a sound argument when criticizing this law, not just criticising the argument given under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3288	The People's MP Takač Istvan has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevović be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3289	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a set of laws on the registration of economic operators and the establishment of an agency on the management of the register of economic operators. G17 plus supported legal projects that improve business in the economy. I would like to draw your attention to the so far positive solutions of the Company Act, which was adopted in 1996 and entered into force in July 1996. Article 95 provides for registration and Article 88. The law lays down the following: "The company of capital delivers to the court which manages the register of performances and statements of the company, consolidated accounting statements of related enterprises, the report of the management of the business and the report of the auditors". This provision does not apply to small enterprises. The proposer of the 1996 Company Act had in mind, I suppose, technical and organisational problems, the application of this article, because in the transitional provisions of Article 448, he set out that the provisions of the 51st member of the Mandatory Reserve Act and the provisions of Article 88 of this Law on the notification of creditors and third parties will apply from 1 January 1996. Practically, the application of the notification obligation is delayed for two and a half years. Why is this deadline important? Because a particular ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, had to provide certain preconditions for the implementation of the intended obligation for the permanent keeping of records on the financial operations of economic operators, on the one hand, and for the security and notification of the same to the public, on the other hand, and all in the context of economic courts so far authorised to keep a register of economic operators. This obligation under the Company Act, the acceptance of financial statements by economic operators and the registration of those within trade courts has not been met until today. The previous government, i.e. the competent ministry of 2002, to explain the amendment of the Law on enterprises to prevent gray privatisation, published on the government's Internet site at the time: "Belgrade, 17 July 2002. The Minister for Business and Privatisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia said today that the essence of the amendments and additions to the Company Act, which is carried out at the Serbian Government's initiative (the addition of the Law was adopted in the Federal Assembly at the end of June of that year), the fight against grey illegal privatisation, not to get in the business autonomy," making another step important for Serbia's successful privatisation and transition process. The latest paragraph of the same notice: "The minister announced that the ministry whose head is soon to launch a reform of the registration system at the company." This means that the previous government of the Republic of Serbia realized in July 2002 that the way in which the registration of business entities is conducted is inadequate and that reform of the same system is needed. At the same time, this finding found that the competent ministry did not take into account the implementation of the provisions of Article 88 of the applicable Company Act but provided for a new system. So far, access to the records of economic operators is practically ineffective. Namely, by two examples, we have in practice various printing of publications, addresses of economic operators that included a number of clients and who had the means to pay for the registration of these publishing houses which had been published by such records, or some economic operators were not published because a certain publisher agent had not found them. Furthermore, the same data when they were published were already obsolete, as such printed editions were prepared from four to eight months. Now that the government is proposing a concrete solution to this problem, with the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators in a unique way and with the deadlines for achieving them, we get a clear vision for realizaicism of the same problem. The proposed solutions on the separation of the registration of economic operators from courts, i.e. municipal administrative authorities in an independent body indicate a very efficient system in this area of state activity. In the light of the draft law, it is stated that the first European directive requires Member States (in this case, we adapt our legal practice to European regulations) that businesses must provide the public with their documents. In this regard, I would like to stress the following. First, the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators in Article 44 provides that the annual financial report, which contains data on the person who confirms that report, is attached to the annual financial report. The same obligation begins from 1 January 2006, as provided for in Article 87. The draft law, which means that the obligation set out in Article 88. This is how the company law works. Secondly, the proposed solution on the speed of registration may be revived. The proposed deadline referred to in Article 25. The proposal for a five-day law, within which the register must make a solution to which the application for registration is accepted, is considered to be acceptable for practice. In order for this registration period to be realised, it must be compulsory for future entrepreneurs, founding entities, to be available information and organisational units of the Agency, as provided for in Article 5. The laws on the registration of economic operators, i.e. the Agency for Economic Registers. The Network of Organizational Units for Registers must do their job quickly, efficiently, with full electronic support, in order to allow everyone to comply with the five-day deadline. Thirdly, it is true that there are in practice a number of operators which are not active in terms of business, but have not liquidated their companies, whether for procedural reasons or too high liquidation costs, this should be examined in particular, but such undertakings should submit their business reports, whether they do so or not. This is prescribed by the Accounting and Audit Act. The proposed solution to Member State 67. The draft law on decision-making of inactive economic operators, if two consecutive years do not operate, is a good solution. I believe that these two legislative solutions on the obligation to submit a report on the work of economic operators, whether they do or not, have offered a solution here on the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators, should be harmonised. Ladies and gentlemen, considering the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators, there is a single question that has not been regulated in our practice so far, and in everyday practice, every businessman faces this, which is the occurrence of default. I am aware that in the market salts of the economy, every economic operator, the legal entity, is exposed to the impact of the market and to a number of other factors affecting the formation and implementation of its own economy. But in practice, certain economic operators, who do not pay, threaten the market mechanism or employees by not paying their personal income to their employees, endanger their employees and families, which is both a social and state problem. Such businessmen, in addition to the proposed records, should be specifically recorded and such records provided simultaneously to the public. On this solution, I have not submitted a special amendment to the proposed text, I believe that, in due course, given the practice of neighbouring countries, which have done a lot by establishing such records, that their economic operators without special judicial processes carry out their monetary obligations to their creditors, if applied, businesses operating in these areas would have a higher economic awareness, and the overall economic activity would be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3290	The People's MP Milan Stevovic has the word, and let the MP Jovan Palalic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the substance of the registration of economic operators in our positive right is governed by four laws and one regulation. These are the Company Act, the Law on the procedure of enrolment in the Court Register, the Law on the Single Classification of the Activity of Business Entrepreneurs, the Law on Private Entrepreneurs and the Regulation enrolment in the Court Register. Given that there are four laws and one regulation, the SRS agrees to carry out a basic codification of these legislations. However, the SRS is opposed to the codification proposed in this law. That's why I'm going to criticise both the provisions of the law and the reasoning of the law. The enrolment takes place with two authorities, first commercial courts, and the second is local self-government authorities. Local self-government authorities are subject to the registration of private entrepreneurs under the Law on Private Entrepreneurs, and when it comes to legal regulations, it is all within the jurisdiction of commercial courts. All relevant and relevant to the legal subjectivity of these economic operators shall be entered. First, the establishment is entered, then the accession, ownership transformations, changes, until the erasure from the court register, i.e. the termination of the legal entity. In addition, the company, headquarters, company name, system of authority, responsibility, capital and all that is important for legal traffic and entities are entered. When we consider these two draft laws, I have to say it's a systematic attempt to break down the state again. Everything that worked in our country, we're trying to transform and question. The register of trade courts was really quite clear and quite effective. Now, by setting up agencies and registering in another entity, it wants to avoid what has not been avoided in trade courts. Namely, our privatisation is under a great deal of question, and what is registered and what will be registered has been verified before trade courts. We know that the economy minister stepped forward and publicly said that 80 companies privatised are not entirely in line with the privatisation. These 80 companies include four companies from Užičko County that were stopped by the Trade Court in Užica, which can be listed individually, but it is not the topic now. As for everything else, I have to point out that the elimination of trade courts here is very important and important, but let's not forget the following, the entry into the court register is not just a formal-law job, when entering the court register is a very important measurement in the decision-making process. Namely, by Article 38. The law on the registration procedure in the court register, commercial courts are competent and to make a measurement decision. That article says - if trade courts suspect, beware, suspect, that is a legal term, in the correctness of evidence confirming certain facts whose registration is required, they can be verified and verified. It is also possible to verify the procedure itself or the action itself that precedes and whose enrolment is required in the court register. The position of the 2nd member also states that the Trade Court is authorised to open the hearing and, by official duty, to carry out evidence if it suspects the truth and verifies what it has been given to decide. When we have this in mind, we're getting in touch with what the Proposer's representative here said, which is that agencies and enrolment have a formal legal character. So, the metric character, the character of deciding in front of trade courts, is eliminated. If this jurisdiction is transferred from trade courts to agencies, this can't be all. That's what this law is all about. I don't think it's about money or spending or donations, but it's about that, but this reason for the jurisdiction of the trade courts to be eliminated in this case. When we talk about the legality of the work so far, I must point out that in the first degree, trade courts have so far decided, and this was decided by the individual judge in the out-of-party procedure, in accordance with Article 1. Law enrolment in the court register. In the second degree, the majority of the three courts decided. The first degree and second degree were sworn in. So the judges have sworn to us here on the correctness of their work, and this work is required to verify on every particular case. For these reasons, judges who have been sworn to do their duties with honor and integrity have performed and registered what was for registration and rejected the enrolment and requirements, which was not worth enrolling. We are now establishing agencies that are part of the administrative procedure and within this administrative procedure we have a registrar, a person who has an administrative and legal function, not a judicial and legal function, and such a person is not under oath. I wonder who our people will trust more in enrollment: judges who have an oath or registries who have no oath. When it comes to court proceedings, I said in the first degree an individual judge, in the second degree of the grand jury of the senior court, but there was a request for the protection of legality as an emergency legal remedy for the decision of the first and second degree. The application for the protection of legality was in the jurisdiction of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and was handled before the Supreme Court of Serbia, so before the highest legal institution. There's nothing here. When the Agency makes an appropriate decision through the registrar, an appeal may be lodged. Under the appeal, the ministry decides, but the party has the right to conduct a administrative dispute, which is decided by the Supreme Court. However, there is a problem here. If the Ministry decides to sign in and return to the first-degree body, return to the agency, then no more God's help, no more administrative dispute. So, if the Ministry of Economy decides to sign in one subject, this is no longer the case with the Supreme Court, nor can the administrative dispute be conducted. This is laid down in Article 28(2) in relation to Article 27, paragraph 6(2). This excludes the competent Supreme Court. There will be great abuses here. That's why it's decided. When we talk about reasons, or reasons for the adoption of these laws, none of these reasons stand. First, he objects to the length of the court proceedings. I must point out that in Article 3 of the Law on registration proceedings, it is regulated that the case is urgent before the courts and that the courts respect it. In fact, in front of most courts, the case ends within five days. You can check this in front of the Trade Court in Užica, in front of the Trade Court in Valjevo, in front of the Commercial Court in the Kingdom, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin and let those I did not mention excuse me. Everything is resolved within five days, if the application is completely correct and correct. If the application is not correct, then the conclusion is that the application is completed within 15 days, followed by the procedure, also within five days, to register the economic operator. When this comes to mind, we have to say that in a maximum of 25 days, in the event that the application is incorrect and incomplete, the registration of the economic operator will take place. And where the facts are controversial and where they should be referred to a lawsuit or another administrative procedure for decision-making, there are no trade courts, there is no guilt, but it is guilt on other organs or the conduct of other bodies within which the deadline will end. That's the first point I disagree with. The second point, when it comes to the costs of this procedure, I must say that what is foreseen by this proposal is a greater figure than it has been paid before trade courts so far. The most expensive procedure was in the registration of foreign trading companies. There was a tax of 2,500 dinars and a decision of 2,500 dinars. So for 5,000 dinars, a business or legal entity was registered, which is about $90. It's on average something normal and can be accepted. So this other reason doesn't stand either. The third reason, it is said, is that there is no uniform case law regarding the registration of certain companies. That's not true. Commercial courts regularly hold their meetings and their consultations within the Higher Trade Court. This practice is even and there has been no gap so far. For those reasons, this part is not adequate. When we talk about the bulk of the apparatus that is now registering business entities, it is said to be doing 16 commercial and one Senior Trade Court, and 161 administration bodies. That number's just at first glance, it's misleading. The same thing will happen with the agencies we're setting up. A central agency, but also 15 to 30 district units, are foreseen, depending on the number of districts and business entities there are in the county. It'll come down to the same thing. So, as much as we had the judge and their associates, we'll have as many registrators and other people doing these jobs. The third reason set out in the proposal does not stand either. The fourth is public data or database. I must point out that the law, which I mentioned earlier, in Article 3 is nice and decadent that the process of enrolment with economic operators is public. That's attitude one. Paragraph 2 of that Article states that everyone can at any time make an insight into what the trade court has registered, that they can photocopy it and that they can obtain a certain copy of the files attached there. The third member is very important, and he says that if a legal entity or a third natural person trusts in the data registered with a trade court, it should not disturb him further. So we're introducing a presummation of the accuracy of the data that is registered in a trade court. When it comes to the presummation I just mentioned at the agencies, it's reduced to a minimum here. The register, or the data processing agency, shall not guarantee the correctness of the data registered there. So we'll have a business subject from Germany, France, who might want to work with our company, but it'll be suspicious if what's in the agency is right and true and reliable. That's why we reject clients, reject foreign investments, refuse the co-operation of foreign businesses with our entities. I don't think this solution is good. When it comes to the database, I also have to say that the courts, the trade, and the municipal organs, are already computerized and that everything is included in the programs. I am aware that for all trade courts in Serbia, the database is centralized and that it is almost entirely done in front of the Zrenjanin Trade Court. So our courts will have a centralized database as well as a mentioned agency. What remains is that this and such a centralized database is connected to the Internet and is made available to the world public. I don't think it's a big step and it's not a hard and insurmountable job for judges. When it comes to European countries, I must say that we must look up to Germany, France and we cannot say for them that they are bad examples. For these reasons, what is stated in the explanation really does not stand. When we say that commercial courts should lose part of their jurisdiction, I must say that if this goes to the authority of the agency and the registrar, trade courts lose their individuality. According to the Court of Justice Act of Article 24, it is clear that the jurisdiction of the court in this case is exclusive. So trade courts are in charge of registration. If we want to change and pass these laws, and the Serbian Radical Party is against such solutions, we must systematically amend the Law on Court Order. Let me remind you, it's the law we changed here 15 or 20 days ago. So every twenty days we go back to some identical laws and discuss them. When it comes to that, we must rely on one very important thing, which is that the register of economic operators in trade courts has so far proved both effective and significant. We must say that on behalf of the SRS, we have submitted amendments to which jurisdiction must and should be left with trade courts. I suggest you vote for those amendments. Another very important thing I would like to point out: all trade courts held two sessions in 2003 and 2004. This was preceded by the meetings of the College of Judges of Trade Courts and all opposed to the fact that the registration authority was handed over to the Agency and the registrar. It was preceded by the decision of the Chamber of Commerce. So, all economic operators, starting with chambers of commerce, and commercial courts as registries, are against what you suggested. If we listen to the base, we'll vote for the amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3292	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3293	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the strategic objectives of every economic policy in the time of change is to encourage the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the course of my discussions, I will not talk about the importance of a transition economy, of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, because the obligation to meet this strategy is set out in the European Charter of Small and Medium Enterprises, which we are signatories of. I will speak from one aspect of the stimulating measures to move this sector into business, which is precisely the issue of the establishment of these companies and the general record of all the changes they have during their business and existence, which concerns their status. Such stimulating laws are precisely laws on the registration of business entities and business registers agencies. We are often well-intentioned by potential investors that the regulations governing the establishment of companies are complicated, that anachrons and elements of unacceptable government supervision are complicated. They are exhausting and demoting anyone who is willing to go into private business in Serbia, whether domestic or foreign legal or physical. These rules are mainly cited as one of the most important ones for the decline of interest in investment in Serbia. These are the applicable Law on the registration procedure in the court register and the Regulation on registration in the court register, whose substance, matter, both of these rules, are now unitedly regulated by the law on the registration of economic operators. During the discussion, I will try to make a comparison between the currently valid and these proposed laws on the registration of business entities and business registers agencies and thus highlight the quality of the changes offered in the proposed laws. This progress offered by the proposed laws can only be understood by those who have dealt with status law and who, mainly, have registered the company during their practice. Those who have never done so, who have never seen a licensee, who have never seen the complexity he brings, can now only come from political needs and because of the campaign to attack these proposed laws, which really represent a real improvement for all citizens and businesses. These changes will be welcomed by the economy in Serbia and all entrepreneurs, whom the current situation cannot meet. The main problem of the current legal system that regulates the status of economic operators and entrepreneurs is that the process of their establishment, as well as the registration of all the more important data that make up the personal map of a business operator, was directed to companies in trade courts and to entrepreneurs in local self-government. Both proceedings were conducted in such a way that they did not comply with their obligations and brought real chaos into the economy because of the lack of urgency in the process of establishment. Generally, it was never respected in the application order, nor was there a time limit for these data to be entered. This has created a space for corruption during the process, and making a solution to the establishment took days or was solved through a relationship, and those who had no relationship were largely unable to obtain a solution to the entry of that data within some more normal time limits. What is important in these proposed laws is that it is very clear that the time limit within which the registrar has to make a solution to the data entry is set. That deadline is five days. If no solution is reached within that period, the application from the registration application shall be deemed to have been adopted and such data shall, thereafter, be entered in the register. So, this five-day deadline, if not respected, has a clear effect that the solution must be made for the benefit of the citizens and the data required is entered. Not to repeat here the story of how it was in the municipalities, in the municipal administrations, when it comes to registration, waiting and running from the office to the office; most of it was left to the mercy of officials, which all opened up in the subsequent period of corruption space. Of course, these proposed laws bring in one full transparency and therefore a business registers agency will be established, which will run a single database for economic operators in Serbia. It was precisely the fact that it was conducted in trade courts and, as someone who worked in practice, I can confirm that there was no uniform treatment, that not even the cartridges were conducted in a unique way. The businessman, for example, in order to gain insight into the company map, and the company is from the territory of another trade court, had to go to the territory of that other trade court and wait there to be given the cartridge first, and after that, mainly, did not get all the information because they were unsuspectingly led out of the cartridge. After that, due to the fact that the relevant business data could not be obtained, it was mainly done either by business or by insolvent partners, or by non-legislative persons, or by persons who had cancelled prosecutions, which caused major damage and litigation. So, the advantage of the proposed laws is precisely that all data can now be obtained in one place for all economic operators in Serbia's territory, and the speed of obtaining these data has been achieved by the possibility that, at any time, on the Agency's website, these data can be obtained. Not to mention the advantage of electronic registration. Whoever has ever done these jobs knows how complex the procedure provided for by the current registration regulation in the court register is. All we can think about is the registration pad, the registration sheets, the bulkheads, the active and passive part of the cartridges, etc. When we remember all those famous seven contributions that had to be filed with trade courts and what all the judicial officers were doing if, in their opinion, the score or point were not placed in the right place, so they returned several times to the applicants to supplement it and afterwards, in the spirit of these laws, one principle of command was decided when and whether a company would be registered at all. It is precisely that an administrative process is being introduced to register companies, very different from the current one, is the greatest advantage and essence of these changes. In Articles 34 and 35 of the current Law on the registration procedure of the court register, which is still in force, the judge has also examined whether the documents comply with the prescribed content, or worse, whether the application for registration is in accordance with the provisions of the general acts on the basis of which the data are established. So even if he suspects it, we don't know on the basis of which fact, in the truth of what is said in the proposed documentation, to schedule hearings, to investigate eventually, he can measurely say that he and he can't start a company. It's a really big question, and we've heard from this pay phone several times -- whether some who criticise these proposed laws have ever set up a single company, whether they've done the job of registering, because with the current situation, it's hard to put themselves in the position of potential investors and wonder if anyone, if these changes don't work, will invest in our country. There is no investor who will endure this harassment of officials in courts or corruption, if this harassment is to be avoided. The proposed laws eliminate all this. There's no control over the enrolment, except for the formal one. Please submit the requested documentation and the company will be registered. If someone isn't satisfied, and here they're thinking of a third person with a legal interest, they can sue. What is very important and what simplifies the enrolment procedure is that the present appeal, which existed in the enrolment procedure, is lifted. Anyone could have complained by now, just to prove a legal interest, to have a legal interest in complaining. Anyone could have blocked the establishment of a company, a change of director or a change of founder. No, now the right to appeal is only the one who asked for the enrolment, and only if his enrolment is denied. The third legally interested person, who has so far been able to complain, and when the request has been adopted or rejected, must now sue, which means both the cost and the risk, and one of the important effects of these proposed changes to the law will be that the number of status disputes will be reduced. That's for sure. What is important to point out, and what is proposed by this law, is that it is finally trying to solve and make a transparent existence of companies that do not actually operate, which do not submit financial reports, and are being conducted in the register and create a major complication of business. The so-called Phantom companies, which make up most of the registered companies, as we have seen in this explanation, enter jobs, buy and sell, issue invoices, and mostly pay nothing. They are the cause of the mass of disputes in front of trade courts, and they are also the cause of those disputes that are very common, precisely because of these companies. These are procedures for beating up a legal person, when there is a financing of the business of these companies, and most creditors in these disputes cannot settle. These non-businessed, fictitious, tax-free and contributing enterprises are the biggest problem of the current economy. Now the new law proposes that the company be translated into inactive status unless it submits a financial report within two years, and finally that these companies are somehow marked, that the matter is serious, and that the serious companies do not enter into business arrangements when insolvency is extremely suspicious. As for the Agency for Business Registers, it, in some ways, promotes the quality of security in our current legal system. I will remind you that last year a law has been passed on pledges on mobile matters and, just after the formation of this agency and its entry into force, it will be possible to do a transparent security procedure, clearly only for anyone who wants to make sure that any moving thing he wants to buy is pawned. He'll be able to do it through this agency. Not to mention that through this agency, in one place, all these data from these laws will be recorded. All in all, these proposed laws, the business registration law and the business register agency are a hit at the center of the problem. In one place there are data on economic operators, meaning businesses, entrepreneurs, banks and cooperatives. They are available on the Internet, through which registration can be filed. The procedure shall be completed within five days. Businesses that do not operate are clearly marked, and the number of data that is ratified by one company is increasing. Just because these proposed laws hit the center of the problem and they solve the problem, because they are truly reformable, they need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3294	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, and let Milka Silaev be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I must express my personal satisfaction that the National Assembly has finally received the first reform law since the start of the new government. Most of what we discussed so far was about changes and additions to existing laws. No legal project has ever gone to the so-called so-called. The fundamental changes in institutions, i.e. did not mean a step forward in the construction of an economic-legal environment, so as not to continue the process of economic reforms. At the same time, I must say that this law, which was before the MPs a year ago, is in this National Assembly in a completely unchanged text, and that this is the result of the work of the previous Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. I am sorry that today, on behalf of the legislator, he is not the minister of economy and privatisation, that is, for the economy, because in the best way we could see the difference between the positions that the ruling coalition had a year ago and the attitudes it has today, and I will remind you that this law has come under the strongest criticism precisely from certain political parties that today make up the ruling political coalition. Today, on the other hand, we see that the basic opinion has changed. Today, we see that the law on the registration of economic operators is proposed in a completely identical text, which was proposed to the National Assembly as early as April, or May last year. We have also heard criticism from MPs, mostly from the ruling coalition, that the previous government has not made a major move in reforming the registration system. However, I would like to inform the public that the jurisdiction to change the registration of economic operators to a republican government was delegated only in April of last year, or on 18 April, at the time when the Constitutional Charter was adopted and when a full set of competences in a legislative sense from a federal level was transferred to a republican level, or at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that from 18 April to 1 June, when the law officially entered the assembly procedure in 2003, it was only a month and a half, which means it took less than a month and a half to prepare this law by the previous government, to see that the exact same text required more than two months of reading by the existing composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and how much time it would take to prepare the text of white paper, I can only assume. This is the first fundamental, reform law, which the Serbian government has sent to this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I think he's the first? Because the application of this law and the construction of institutions, above all by the Agency for the Registration of Business Entities, allows for a further step in economic reforms. It is possible to equilibrate and technical simplification of the registration process and, most importantly, allow for a much faster and more efficient registration of economic operators. I want to say to the public that soon I expect, from the same economy ministry, the next law, which was also prepared a year ago, and which I suppose will also come in unchanged text, which is the bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy laws were also taken over only 18 April last year and, as with the company registration law, it took a little more than a month for the previous assembly ministry to submit a whole new proposal. I expect it will take a few weeks, I hope, in the coming period that this unchanged proposal will be addressed by the existing government. I expect that very soon the proposal for a law on companies, or the Company Act, will be addressed, in which way the legislative work of the Ministry of Economy will be fully circled, as we will receive a fully-rounded set of company laws, which are necessary for the continuation of economic reforms. And I will remind - and the law on trade societies has been prepared in the previous period, a public debate has passed. All that remains is to implement the objections heard during the public debate. At the end of the day, it would be more politically acceptable for lawmakers, authorised representatives of the ruling coalition, to come out and say, "This is a law that was sent to the National Assembly in a completely unchanged text, prepared by the previous government." I don't want to talk much about why we need a new system of registration, why we need, among other things, a different course of bankruptcy, which I hope will be regulated very soon by the bankruptcy law, which has been prepared in the previous period. There is a need to dissipate business courts, so that they can finally perform their basics, which is a judicial function, not to deal with things that have no capacity. I don't want to talk much about how much trouble there is in registering a business entity and it's wrong to defend this law just from the point of view of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is equally important and equally important for the direct foreign investment, because it directly raises the attractiveness of the economic environment in which it invests. Because if you have a foreign investor today, who needs 72 days to register his company, will certainly seek a new, more attractive destination to achieve his business venture and will not bend the thresholds of economic courts and counters that will only take his time. It's time, gentlemen, always money, and they especially appreciate those who want to invest their money. Thus, in this respect, the law is essential as an essential incentive to improve the economic environment. The economic environment has been significantly disrupted over the past few months. If so, the best testimony is among other things the flow of privatisation. The fact is that in February, we had 100 auctions, and today we have only 20, so the revised figures that relate to foreign direct investment in this year are best spoken to us. The fact that this amount last year was one billion and three hundred, and no more than four million dollars are being projected today. This raises to the highest level a direct investment in the production of aluminum cans, which was agreed at the beginning of last year, so it is not the result of an improved economic ambience, but as well as this law something left in the legacy of the new government by the previous government. That the economic environment is worsened, the best thing to do is to witness and expect businessmen, businesses based on surveys that are conducted on a regular basis, monthly basis. I therefore expect that work on the construction of a new institution, which is most important at the moment, will not only pass one law that has been prepared, but also an effective business registration agency, together with at least 16 of its regional limits. In the next period, I expect it to be a major preoccupation, primarily the Ministry of Economy, because it is his task to set up a system, so that the new registration system can work at all and that the new registration system can show all advantages. Of course, I share this concern with some opposition MPs, that unless the system of agencies and networks of regional agencies is effectively set up, then we can really get into an institutional vacuum, because registration jobs were previously taken away from trade courts and transferred to the agency. I hope that in the next period there will be much greater energy on this plan, on the plan of building a business registration agency. The task of this process, i.e. the law, i.e. a newer registration site, will be able to be significantly cheaper under this law. I hope that by adopting this and the bankruptcy law, we will have a much more efficient work of economic courts. And, just one well-intentioned suggestion, because for me personally and for the DS, the most important thing to do is to continue to work on the realisation of economic reforms: it is necessary to propose a new law on the enforcement process as soon as possible, because only then will we have a significantly reduced systemic risk, therefore, the risk of investments coming directly from the system, and only then will we allow the economic operators to carry out the part relating to the judicial function in a correct and efficient way, that is, in a way that will improve the market environment in Serbia, which will improve the attractiveness for potential investors. Therefore, not wanting to go further into the debate and the story of this law, because I must admit that I personally feel rather unusual, since I have been preparing in my time to defend this law from the opposition at the time, which was against this law, and now the correctness is now saying that this is a good law and, of course, the current position that was once against this law, and the text, gentlemen, is identical. I want to say that further institution building continues to improve the economic environment will depend heavily on realisation, and this institutional implementation of the law, which I assume will be brought into this National Assembly, as well as on the courage to move forward towards institutional reform, i.e. reform of the legal framework in which economic operators operate. Once again, we have not seen a single proposal so far, although the government is greatly boasting that thanks to the reform laws, I don't know what reform laws were, there have been repairs of the prime environment, but these are reform laws, because they essentially improve the economic environment in institutional terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3296	Since we have a situation that we all agree, in this case I agree with the predecessor on the proposal that I represent, there's no need to talk too much, but since the predecessor has advocated the full truth, then just some little remarks that will lead to that full truth. Last year, when it was up to these laws, a matter of trust was previously asked to the previous government, and it was then scheduled to discuss the laws' proposals themselves. Therefore, it is difficult to accept the fact that there was so much dispute over the legal solutions themselves, it was more of a procedural nature. Also, as far as the text goes, he's not the same. The basic solutions in these proposals must be acknowledged that they have, but there have been a lot of additions to this text, in particular some of the formulations that mark the formal-legal nature of the law itself, and there has been a lot of work and discussion with the Legislative Secretariat.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3297	Replica, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3298	Mr. Minister, you know I greatly appreciate what you've been doing and what you've done before. We've had our chance to work together for a very long time, me as a minister, and you as the director of a big company. I have to say I didn't use this place for the EPP. When I said that MPs, or better said political parties that make up power today, were once opposition, just a year ago, I didn't mean a congregation debate. We are all witnessing that these congregation debates have never happened. The law was sent in June of the month. Unfortunately, however, because of the ineffectiveness of the work of the Assembly, he came to the agenda only in October of the month, to our great regrets, not the political parties, because never the narrowness of political understanding and efforts was a feature of DS, but unfortunately because of the continuation of economic reforms, because today we see that this is a law without whose adoption and whose institutional basis there is no continuation of economic reforms, and the same is with the law on bankruptcy, the Law on Business, the law on value added tax, etc. Unfortunately for us, this law, and unfortunately for all our country and its economic progress, was not adopted last year. The fact is that the leaders of political parties who were in opposition said they were open against such a law. There's as many arguments as you want. Fortunately, all the websites are stored in their archives of daily newspapers, television, statements that were then made, and then we can show them at the end of the day in this place. I understand that politics and reaching a new political point means using all political means and even being against something that makes sense. Serbian citizens should know that DS will never use funds to score political points, which will be against the interests of the state and the people. So, frankly, this is a good law and it needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3299	Thank you, Mr. Vlahovic. The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and the next declared speaker is Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3300	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, our country has made certain commitments under the Stability Pact of the Southeast European countries, which is that it has a plan for an information society, within which electronic projects of individual authorities have been verified. This law is one of those projects. As agreed with the IMF, IT systems should be set up so that all databases are reorganised first. Our databases aren't identical, it's that there are databases, and these are previous speakers pointed out, but they're not set in the same way. So to prescribe a new methodology, which would be clear and unique for monitoring and compatible with those used in the world, as well as to provide electronic data exchange between competent institutions. Until then, a reliable information system and constant statistical monitoring are needed. That's what sound logic indicates. It is not possible without this, neither serious analysts nor monitoring the effects of applying government policies, nor a normal identification of investor's response to the measures taken, nor an insight into the realisation of agreed sectoral policies, nor a more thorough creation of these sectoral policies. It is necessary to keep a register of business operators' databases within that administration, i.e. the e-Government of Serbia. Serbia needs to realise 30 of these projects in order to respect the declarations normally and to draw close to the European Union in some way. For example, I cite only a few, whose rounding will have direct positive effects on the economy and on the stimulation of investments. The electronic register of economic operators, the electronic immovableity catalogue, the statistical information system, the information system of the economic authorities and the central register of certified bodies for the issue of electronic signatures is required. I saw on the government site that the law was squatting somewhere, but it was standing, and it was necessary to bring it. I hope this government will put that law to our attention very soon. The unique information system of the database in the field of the state administration makes the work of the state administration more efficient, because every database in certain parts must be accessible to other users. For now, every single base, not uniform, is so driven that each one runs the database from the beginning. That's not good. It's a waste of work and resources. In Serbia there are a number of different data and registers on economic operators, there were just a few words about it, they run commercial courts, municipalities, statistics, income administrations, customs etc. They're not connected. The same company in each base, i.e. register, gets a different number. The unique database on the registration of business entities is a prerequisite for creating an up-to-date base that will facilitate business for all state authorities. Such a register with transparent databases will benefit state authorities, statistics, and thus also economic operators. A simplified application system allows each interested person without professional assistance to complete the application and send it to the Agency which will forward the registration solution to the applicant in an identical manner. I'm giving an example for Canada. All you need to do is type on the Internet www.canadaontario.com register, and in a few days you get all the necessary papers on a registered company at the price of 100 Canadian dollars, or 4,400 of our dinars. Articles 10 to 13 of this Act shall be governed by the way in which they communicate with other registers and state bodies and organisations, and in order to issue a single identification number. The recommendations of the electoral government, i.e. the European Union for the Electronic Government, are that registration of economic operators is done in such a way that it is an administrative function, not a way of legal and economic control of economic operators. Business control needs to be done with other instruments. There is an opportunity for us to draw closer to the countries of Europe by adopting this law. The Czechs realized that the introduction of the information system is one way to retain their highly qualified workforce. They kept their hi-tech engineers by making a huge number of information systems and databases and connecting them, and the Czechs are now in the European Union, but the young people stayed there, they didn't go out of the country, and that's a big deal. If these instructions of the European Union are accepted, we will not allow a large number of young people to go out of the country, and we have infra-matics both smart and good, and they are highly paid in the West. This is the beginning of an electronic government, and as the majority of optimists, well, I dream that here on our benches we have portable computers, so that we have an electronic government, or the Assembly, that we don't have to have a bunch of paper, but that through our emails we get all the laws at home, that in time we can read them and get ready to come to these places. In that name, I thank you, and I hope that we can accomplish all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3301	The word is given by Natasa Jovanovic, a people's messenger, and for discussion to prepare MP Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3302	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are in our own time machine today on 17 May 2004, and I will explain why. We have two complementary draft laws that are in the same text, only different persons have signed them and referred them to the procedure and to the MPs. What I'm about to show you, was seduced on July 7th 2003, signed before the government of the Republic of Serbia by a certain Minister for Business and Privatisation, Aleksandar Vlahovic, and signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Vice-President Joseph Kasa. What we need to talk about today is the same, only the law was sent by the minister in resignation, but now only the economy minister, Dragan Marsican, and signed by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Given the fact that the minister is completely incompetent here today in front of us and since the start of the debate, because we are not even talking about the registration of economic operators in the Seseljski, Marshall and Virgin Islands, but in the area of our Serbia, and given the fact that the Martian, whom this ministerial function did not go at all, has resigned, in the meantime, I strongly recommend to him, given that neither the campaign for the president of Serbia is going anywhere, to resign and to be the presidential candidate. It is obvious that this current government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, continues with the so-called reform rates of the former defeated DOS furniture. We could see that when there was a law on insurance before the MPs, which is quite certain that they will not have the support of MPs, at least as things are now, and many of these identical texts of the law will only come before the MPs. It came, we heard, the first European directive under which these two laws had to be found on the agenda, but Vlahovic did not welcome them, as before that the SRS, with the help of Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, acted to reach an extraordinary parliamentary election. And the bankruptcy law, I am absolutely sure, will be the same as while Zivkovic was prime minister. We are faced with the fact that we have received a drug law, also completely in the same text as during the DOS government. The Continuance of the DOS defeated regime continues the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Why are these laws not good, and why are we Serbian radicals against establishing a business registration agency? First, it is completely incomprehensible for us people's MPs, the Serbian Radicals, the unacceptable explanation he wrote, which was signed by the minister in the resignation of Dragan Marsican, by the way, the minister who, during his ministry, only laid one brick on a single salary provided by radicals when they were in power, the man who opened the Aluminium Cans factory 10 days ago. That was all he did during his ministry. But why are we against these laws? For us, it is unacceptable that registration of economic operators is done in the way that this directive is given, although we have nothing against European and world integration, but only when there is no harm to the natural and legal persons in our country and when there are different solutions in the Member States of the European Union. Because, it's not true at all, there's one number in circulation, that somewhere around 250,000 registered companies, how could these days be read in the press, as those you say are involved in the public debate, are only 90,000 companies active. It is simply not true, and according to existing legal positive norms, it is four laws and one regulation, which was spoken of by my distinguished colleague, MP Milan Stevovic, quite possible, legally justified and obligation for every legal and physical person to determine whether it is active or inactive. Every legal person, which is subject to the current Company Act, is obliged to provide cumulative reports, periodic reports, final accounts to the tax authority. On the other hand, as far as natural persons are concerned, the department of the Ministry of Finance in the area of the municipality or the city, entrepreneurs can also submit a written report and they have the opportunity to keep their status at rest for what they are registered for, or for the activity they are registered for, and it is also delivered to the tax administration. It does not appear at all that the state does not have a mechanism to establish through existing legal solutions how many active and how many inactive entities there are. In the first paragraph of this reasoning of the law – we simply come into one confusion, whether we should speak to Vlahovic or to the non-existent Minister of Industry, or to a Martian who is left behind – there is something we could never agree on. So, all of this we Serbian radicals wanted to say in October of the month, but fortunately for all of Serbia's citizens, the DOS regime has been shot down, extraordinary parliamentary elections have been made, and this finding that was then and today repeated by Vlahovic, which you absolutely agree with, I think of a new one formed quite slowly and I would say, first of all, that the incompetent coalition of the new Kostunica government, is something that no Serbian citizens who want to see things objectively and realistically. You, of course, are codifying legal regulations and harmonising with the countries of the European Union, ad hoc means, when you have a congregation majority, and now you have a newly formed coalition, as you have found from your predecessors, and that you do not have a basic fact in mind first. If you are already trying, and you are doing so in the campaign ahead of the upcoming presidential elections, you gentlemen of the ruling climate coalition, to convince the citizens of Serbia that it will be a very simple and easy way to Europe, and you forget the fact, a few days ago, by giving you new packages, that and Chris Patten, we are 10 years away from the European Union than we were in October 2000. That's the facts. Those of you who deal with this issue of European integration, the issue of Serbia-Montenegro's preparation for entry into the European Union, are indeed more than incorrectly misleading Serbian citizens if they are told the truth, and the truth is quite different. You have received reports, like all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from the so-called European Commission on what our country has done as part of preparations for signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. No one has to come from the European Union to face us with more than a pussical reality and the fact that you blindly follow everything she's done and leave you in the amannet of the former DOS government. So, we do have a devastating low level of production and these laws, i.e. a way of registering business entities and a declarative commitment to stimulate entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises, mean nothing to Serbian citizens. No free flow of capital, no foreign direct investments. It has a direct impact today as it has been, and civil servants and politicians, on the work of the judiciary and for us, in the context of the creation of an independent branch of justice, it is very important that this area is regulated through trade courts. Not in the way that the President of the Trade Court did during the DOS government, and continues to perform that function, Goran Kljajevic, who completely violated all the positive legal standards in December 2003, making a truly criminal act in the right sense of the word, entered a non-existent legal entity from Germany into the company register in our country, or registered the company Mercedes Benc. Through him was a major affair that we Serbian radicals were talking about, and which, if God gives people will, only by changing power in court and all the perpetrators will have to answer. So, we are not in favour of such work by judges in a trade court and it is unacceptable to explain to the incompetent minister, who is here today, that one judge judge judges like this and the other one. Who's going to judge a business registries agency when there's no control? For us, it is also an unacceptable argument, which says it was necessary to establish a business registration agency in order to have an insight into the public of the following documents - a founding act, statutes, annexes of these documents and annual financial reports, as well as public designation data, appointment deadlines and the names of representatives with an exact participation in the amount of subscribed capital. All this must be done only with a decision by the competent trade court, i.e. the judges responsible for the registration of economic operators and under current laws. What is very important to us and what we will point to the citizens of Serbia until the end of this month and most likely only until half of June, because as already 14, we expect you to understand that the inevitableness of going to new parliamentary elections and that we really have comprehensive changes in our society is that this government, as well as just the previous one, is not able to create either an institutional, economic environment, or a development environment, however you want to, to start the economy in our country. Therefore, the continued registration of business entities, which we advocate to remain in the way that it is governed by the positive legislation, is not enough in a country where nothing remains produced, in a country where the prime minister, instead of doing his job, is promoting his presidential candidate to a few dozen citizens in certain cities of Serbia. By the way, forget to mention it, come to the city, and then at a rally to talk about a presidential candidate, he's talking about the problems the government is facing. You see, and the citizens of Serbia can't do it anymore. In order to implement a comprehensive change in all segments of our society and to create conditions for the economy to start working – and do not forget when we are talking about the formation of small and medium-sized enterprises that there is a very large entrepreneurial potential in our country and that there are opportunities and alternatives to reorientation of resources, the employment of people – it is necessary to come to power in Serbia, start from the President of the Republic, through a new government, people who will lead a real and viable policy. With Kostunica headed, with your coalition like that, along with the DOS copying school and their appointment now in front of the MPs, not that we're not going anywhere, but we're just going to go to a bigger ambition, which the citizens don't want, and that's going to show in the June 13th elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3303	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, and for discussion, the Messenger Bojan Pajtic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3304	This bill should be adopted because this law is characteristic of open society in political and economic terms. According to basic decisions, this bill is actually a new way of thinking, which brings us closer to modern economies, at least with regard to the registration of economic operators. I don't know if any of you have tried to register a company or if there's a friend who's registered it, if you've recently visited parts of the trade courts where the registers are and wondered how long it takes and what the procedure looks like. The procedure so far, which was otherwise regulated in 1994, 10 years ago, lasted very long. They were unsupervised in many departments of trade courts. As you know, there are 16 of them, and you couldn't get some timely information. Almost every fifth registration had a conclusion to supplement the procedure, there was not enough paper to register, so this proposal is one big step forward and because it will allow them to be a central register in one place, with the right information, in a very short period of time. In addition, judicial practice in relation to registration decisions was unequal, so that the door of legal uncertainty remained open for a long time. Otherwise, I see there were questions why we don't keep the system like we do in Austria, Germany, France. Because we didn't invest in computer equipment. I don't know if you've seen any of the trade courts in Germany and their registration department. You will see that in these countries a unique computer system is established depending on the provider, and when you want to get information, everything depends on the quality of the computer you have, you get the information very quickly. You don't have to come to that court, or depend on their working hours, but you get information right away. Japan invested $120 in computer equipment at the time of the Berlin Wall's collapse, America around 90, Western European countries about 80, those that were not in the European Union around 60, and we below $10. Now I'm gonna get there and it's got to be paid. That's why we're trying to make up for the delay in the technological revolution, which is why electronic data control will be very important and that's why people abroad will be able to get information about the state of the economy here. You know we have several registers and that's complicated by the situation, so I think that closes the door strongly to modern society, modern economy and modern organization. Otherwise, it is true that this bill was handed over to the Assembly in June of last year, but the president of Mrs. Micic's assembly did not want to put it on the agenda. That's one of the problems. Otherwise, Mr. Vlahovicu, this proposal that is not original and which is a build was not a problem. The problem was the government that submitted the proposal. It's the government that seduced the state of police here in March. This is the government that led here to an unlimited amount of life, property and freedom of citizens. This is the government responsible for gangster capitalism, so Chris Patten came and explained what it was about. We received sanctions for this, and he explained that three years of reforms were not much of a reform. Therefore, the proposal was not a problem. The problem was government, and that's why this law needs to be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3305	The word has the People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic, if he's in the O.R. MP Bojan Pajtic is not in the O.R. The word is by MP Marko Krstin, and for discussion to prepare MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3306	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree that this is one really reform law, with the fact that I would disagree with the conclusion that this is the first reform law. There was a law in the area of finance, not to list them now, which, in any case, are certainly reform laws and which, practically, are on the line of all of what we're doing today with this law. I couldn't agree with the finding of some colleagues that so far the economic courts have been excellent, either roughly excellent or well done by this job. The business of the business register of business entities was decomposed to local authorities, these are the secretaries of business for municipalities and economic courts, when it comes to businesses. It's simply not an accurate finding that it's done so far by a trade, earlier economic court. It was also done by local authorities. The registry will be very complicated, unarmed, very expensive, requiring engagement and connections and friendships to end the process, the availability of data is zero. It made business more difficult not only for the register, especially for those who wanted to make sure the economic operator was with whom they wanted to close some legal business. That's what almost nobody here was talking about today. What does this record bring new ones? For the first time, we will have relatively or perhaps absolutely up-to-date information about how the financial report is, or how it works and how it's a legal person. The report will allow any legal person, who wishes to contact another legal person, to negotiate, to conclude legal work, to see and thus control the company's credit rating with which he wants to enter into a legal relationship. It's a very important thing that, unfortunately, we haven't heard anything today and that's the key to this record. So the new record will contain annual financial reports from economic operators. It is a key matter for further economic development and for the security of legal traffic in this country. Of course, I won't rule out the role of courts, but when we decide who we trust with our money or our goods, we need to know what he has of property, how he operates. So far, no such data has been available. I think anyone who's tried to check the credit and insolvency of a company and now can't do it in any way. The data was previously run by SDK, so the National Bank - Institute for Accounting and Payment. However, when you leave and ask someone to tell you what the insolvency of a legal person is, they asked you to legislate as a representative of that legal person for whom you are looking for information. Normally, you weren't a representative of that legal person and you couldn't get any data on insolvency, credit and financial status. Now you'll have that information and you'll be able to get it. I think it's a very important thing for the economy. That's a little bit of a talk, and that might be the most important thing about this record. What else is significant about this record? It's a significant amount of data that enters this record for the first time. No executive procedure, ladies and gentlemen, from a lawyer, and I am a lawyer and I know it, can be carried out unless you give the executive court a tax registration number and a home number. You don't have that in your records right now, and you can't get it. Now, when you write a proposal to execute, if the law is passed, and I hope it will, you will access the database through the computer, find out the number you need, enter into the execution proposal, and then you will get information without whom there is no execution. So anyone you ask if this law will make it easier to comply with his claims can just say yes, because it will give him insight into the records of the necessary data. What's new about this law? So far, you've had to go to a trade court, if you need information from some trading court that's not in your seat, according to the seat of a legal person, then sit in a car and cross over this country or write a submission, and then you get an answer in one twenty days. Now you'll be able to get an answer in a few seconds, in one or two minutes. That's the result that suggests that this law is excellent. Why is this law still great? Someone here mentioned that legal data protection is much less. I'd say it's bigger. Why is it bigger? First of all, you have two stages of administrative procedure. I will point out that, under the law governing the work of the state administration, you have two degrees and when the solution is finally in the administrative procedure, you can start the administrative dispute. But there was no mention of anything else. I have indeed seen an envious analysis, but insufficient analysis that goes in the direction of representation of one point of view. I'd like to extend that analysis a little bit. So, one who is not satisfied with enrolment in the business register, means a third person with a particular legal interest, can refute any application by court, so that you have more degree and possibility of judicial protection. And I'm going to point out that so far it's only been a two-stage procedure, so first degree trade, then higher trade. The application for the protection of legality is a general emergency legal remedy, which means that it is not only applicable to the register, but everyone can initiate something to the prosecutor, so if the prosecutor accepts something, and in 99% of the cases he does not accept. Therefore, the application for the protection of legality remains, you get a two-stage administrative procedure, you get an administrative dispute and you get a special suit to delete the enrolment. It was an observation that any data could be registered, and no one checks anything, etc. If we stopped at it and didn't say how it ended, then we wouldn't be consistent with ourselves and the truth. Anyone who fails and falsely answers, according to the provisions of this law, for a crime committed. It's a modern European approach -- you'll give data, and then you'll answer if the data isn't correct. I think that closes the circle on whether or not someone might have given false information. Criminal protection contains this law. It was an observation that if this law was passed again after 15-20 days, we would have to amend the Law on Court Organization. We won't have to change it. Again, the analysts mentioned did not read the entire text of the law. If we really want to be analysts, I will read article 89: "The day of entry into force of this law ceases the jurisdiction of trade courts to register and maintain a register of economic operators". Therefore, the provisions of the law regulate the issue and the issue is fully regulated. So we won't have to change the Law on Court Organization. What else is important to this law? I have to tell you that the judicial system is, in particular, institutional solutions, one of the basic reasons why economic operators can't, in time and the way it is everywhere in Europe, to collect their claims. This is the task of our minister or ministry of justice, to arm the actions of the courts in proceedings when it comes to determining the rights and obligations of the bonds. This law is the first step towards it. So we need to change the Law on a litigation procedure, especially for business disputes, to know what time-limit is being resolved in the first degree, within which time in the second degree, and within which time after the revision. So far, it's been unlimited. Then, when someone invests their assets in a legal job, starts a lawsuit, gets a dispute, and after three years, not that it's failed, it's ruined. That's gotta change. This law goes that way. Why? When you file a report, it's settled within five days. If not resolved within five days, the request shall be deemed to have been accepted and automatically entered in the register. So there's no uncertainty, no waiting, it's all settled in a short time. The deadline for you to get the information and the receipt of the records is two days in total. That was gone so far, they could give information whenever they wanted. I want to tell you one more thing: no more standing in front of the counter. So you solve the problem by using the computer, by asking for a direct database. If you want the data countered, stop by the computer again and you've got the data countered. This is nothing more than facilitating transport and facilitating the operation of businesses. I can say, as a lawyer and as a lawyer, that you should fully support this law, that it is about new and modern solutions, that they are given binding short deadlines, two-stage, full judicial protection, and not only through an administrative dispute, but through a special lawsuit to delete from the register of incorrect data. In the end, criminal liability sanctioned the provision of incorrect data. So, the G17 plus stands behind these laws, as well as the earlier reform laws that were passed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3307	The word has the People's MP Dragan Colic, and let Dejan Stojljkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel that the proposed laws are merely a continuation of the bad proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they do not change anything qualitatively in this area. It is idicative that someone hastens the government, and the government hastens the National Assembly and the bill's proposals must be considered by an emergency procedure, which is already becoming chronic. The main reason or motive in the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to prevent adverse consequences, since the time limit for the use of funds from the Kingdom of Sweden's donation is limited by 31 August 2004. The National Assembly should approach the analysis and discussion of the proposed laws rationally, and it is the government that should work quickly, efficiently and above all rationally, which is not the case with this government. As an SRS MP, I think the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators is impossible to apply in practice, because it is technically impossible, inconclusive. Your main motive is a million and a half euros, it's your obsession, and the current Company Act for you, declared legalists, doesn't matter at all. The question is raised – is it realistic and feasible to centralise data for about 250,000 businesses. The government of the Republic of Serbia is offering another agency, this time for business registers. Why do you invent organs that don't in practice do what should be their purpose and purpose? They're existing, and they're not doing their job. The SRS believes the agencies are too high, unnecessary, to be a major burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget. The competent authorities of the local self-government units in the central register at the republican level may carry out all these activities. The Republic Statistics Institute, in the opinion of the Serbian Radicals, could do this job very well, and it was very well elaborated in its presentation by the SRS MP, Mr Zoran Krasic. Another problem is that the agencies are making bad personnel, as a result of your poor selection of personnel. As a bad example, I'm going to state one man's behavior, and you can best see what your personnel are, what your agencies are like, what kind of people you have there, and what it looks like in practice. Zaci, I cite an example of Mr Bogdan Petrovic's indicative behaviour, who is in charge of the Privatisation Agency for the company "Fagram" from Smederev, the city where I come from. Here's what it looks like in practice. The Fagram workers have not received any payments since January 2002. When they had a conversation with Bogdan Petrovic, he asked them for a final bill for 2003. When they brought in the final bill, he told them it was enough, and he didn't want to look at it, nor to receive it. He demanded an audit of the accounts and 5,000 euros, reportedly costing so many audits. Later, he refused to receive workers, who were a little late due to their problems on the road. They were told to leave the paperwork at the office. Then, he told the workers -- don't come to Belgrade, it's in vain, you better have a beer. E, workers who have not received salary since 2002, who are in a difficult mental and physical state, when someone invites them to the Agency, in Belgrade, they go with great hope, they see rescue in the agency, see a means to solve their problems. And then one such man, as you offer, and there are a dozen of them, in those agencies, this is how they treat people who don't get paid for two years. This is an example of how your personnel behave in your agencies. You can theoretically do it one way or another, but in practice the proposed laws are not applicable. The result of such an approach is the creation of chaos in all spheres of society. It is time to return from the world of your illusions to the world of reality, and we Serbian radicals will help you with this, with the help of the citizens of Serbia, because it is realistic, and it is realistic that on June 13th, the president of Serbia becomes Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3309	Thank you. The People's MP Dejan Stojljković has the word, and let the Verse of Radet be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, since this is my first address for the pay phone I want to introduce myself, my name is Dejan Stojljkovic and I come from Prokuplje, I am an MP from the DSS list – Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. The DSS sees the health and stability of the national economy as the most important objective of economic policy. This will only be possible when the National Assembly adopts laws that contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the inflow of foreign capital and are in line with the recommendations and regulations of the European Union, whose member we want to become. The laws that the National Assembly today decides on, those relating to the establishment and registration of economic operators, are precisely such laws. What has been characteristic of the current way of registering businesses is a complicated, often slow procedure, which most often required additional involvement of lawyers. The other problem that has arisen is that the existence of a number of different, non-coordinated, unrelated databases led to the fact that it was not known at all how many businesses there are in the country, how many of them are active and how many are not. People who were dealing with statistics, analysis, and even by designing economic development in the country could not, based on these data, come up with relevant facts that would help them design this development. What, therefore, is that the proposed laws are passing, which is the essential novelty and essential improvement in relation to the model that we have today. First, a register is introduced as a single central electronic database on economic operators in the country and I doubt there is any MP in this room who will say that it is better to have 100 different databases instead of one central one. This provides that this central database, or register, as it is called, is available to everyone, even if it also contains an Internet address for each economic operator. the address of every company's website, which represents both a special form of advertising and the possibility that anyone who wishes to do so can get closer and faster acquainted with all those services and products that a particular company offers. In addition to the fact that such a established register offers all relevant information about a company, they are available to the public in a very easy way and without proving legal interest. I'm sure we'll all agree that this record-keeping system is much better than it's ever been. As my narrow specialty is just working with electronic databases, I'll tell you that's the system that's most convincingly efficient when it comes to keeping and organising data. The databases consist of a series of records, i.e. slogans with data types that are unique and dependent on realisation provide an opportunity for quick and easy search, sorting, filtering. Their display is in virtually unlimited ways, where in such a database, not now but later on, it is possible to introduce appropriate time relations, so that we can practically get a complete history of the work of an economic operator. Then, an important improvement is simplification, unification and acceleration of the registration process. Thus far, the registration of a business entity has been carried out in trade courts and municipalities, and it has often happened that in one court one judge leads the registration process to one and the other judge to another. That led to major problems, but also uncoordinated archives. The procedure itself could have lasted seven, ten, even more days. There were cases where the registration procedure lasted six months. When these laws are passed, these processes will be much shorter. The legal solution provides for the registration process to last for five days, after the expiry of that period a natural or legal person will be given a solution to the registration or refusal of registration. The newspaper is the possibility of registering the company via the Internet, of course it is understood that by a certain deadline each legal person will have to deliver the relevant written documentation. It is also the fact that it will be possible to book the name of the company when it logs in, so that it will no longer be possible to happen that while the registration process is under way, someone else is setting up a company under the same name. It is also predicted that such an organised register should be linked to other databases in the country, such as databases of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, Customs and so on, whether via telecommunications lines or computer media. Therefore, it can be easily concluded that this new company registration system is much clearer, faster, more efficient and that all natural and legal persons, who want to carry out economic activity, will provide a lot of relief and many benefits. I believe that these laws will, in particular, contribute to the development of medium and small enterprises, which are definitely the best way to create new jobs, and thus to raise population standards. The creation of a single database will also facilitate the integration of business entities in order to co-operate or find a company that deals with certain activities. The DSS programme writes - the vital objective of the economy is to include our country in the World Trade Organisation, the EU, the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial and trade organisations and institutions. I will remind you that this law, among other things, is being adopted at the EU's recommendation, and an agency will be established to carry out all these jobs and how we could hear from Mr. Minister with the help of the World Bank's 1.4m-euro donation. In the end, I must say that I am sure that it is very high-quality legal solutions, which are targeting the very center of the problem and which, as well as many other laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will finally bring the country to Serbia where it belongs, in order of the medium-developed EU member states. That's why I call on all MPs to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3311	Thank you. The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milko the Stimac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3312	At a time when MPs from the government received these two draft laws on the registration of business entities and business registers agencies, the government wrote that on behalf of the government these laws would be represented by Economy Minister Dragan Marscanin. Meanwhile, Mr Dragan Marsican, by running away from responsibility, resigned as minister, and was running away from responsibility because he promised Serbian citizens to review 82 privatisations, and since this is not possible in the government, as a group of coalition representatives, who are related to the financial-mafian lobby, are in a position to control these done privatisations in the government, but I hope it will be a very short time. I expect that this group will deliver on a public promise and that, if God so wills, the citizens will leave the government on June 14th. Today in the government, we have the most important ministry without ministers, which is the Ministry of Economy, and the economy in Serbia all know that nothing is working, nothing in Serbia is working, privatisation continues to take place under the Privatisation Act, as at DOS, because the assembly majority had neither the will nor the desire to discuss the urgent procedure of the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which was submitted to the Assembly by the SRS parliamentary group. All this is happening in the government with the consent of Vojislav Kostunica, who also shows in this way what his relationship to the economic and social situation in Serbia is, and the other is disastrous, and the citizens of Serbia feel every day on their own. Especially in these days when it re-gathers fuel, when they get tax solutions two and a half times the amount, even in some of the constituencies, inherited houses a hundred years old, but they're in some extrazone, as the government has estimated. The proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators should in no way be adopted in this text in the National Assembly, and it is very difficult for us lawyers to talk about this law, because each member of this law is contrary to some of the existing laws, whether it is the Law on Businesses or the Law on Courts, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, one member is even the opposite of the Constitution. When this law is found before the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will have to make a decision not to make this or that member, but that the whole law is not in accordance with the law or the Constitution. In this regard, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments, with the intention that this text, as the Government has given to the National Assembly, should at least comply with the existing positive-law rules. What is the essence of passing these laws of yours, the government's proposal, and you will certainly be in the congregation's majority to adopt these laws? The point is, you guys want to go back to the little door again and introduce the agencies. Last week, a colleague, a DSS MP, says, boast here that the Serbian government has abolished nine agencies, and then says - it is our principle programme, and says this colleague - we are abolishing agencies as a paraorganization, and the reason is unnecessary costs, among other reasons. That's what a colleague from the DSS said last week, and today we're already here to state about the law on the Agency for Business Registers. So, ladies and gentlemen, they keep the word of the party members of Vojislav Kostunica. Instead of Minister Marsicanin, who was supposed to be a minister here today, who was supposed to represent the law before the MPs, the government here sent a minister who practiced reading for this speaker on Thursday, and his ministry has absolutely nothing to do with the draft laws that are on the agenda today. What Mr. Minister read to us. He says the reasons why these laws should be passed, one of the reasons, because one judge has one opinion, and the other judge has another opinion on the same legal issue. This, Mr. Minister, is no argument. This isn't about whether something is regulated legally, but you're assessing whether the judges are like this or not, whether one of the judges is like this or not. Judges have court practice, respecting court practice, judges in Serbia are mostly honorable and consoling people, and you can't pass the law because Judge Goran Kljajevic did not know how many times the re-registration of Elektrotechne, because he illegally entered an authorised person in the register of Mercedes-Benca and so on. You must, the government of the sea, the minister of justice of the sea, competent committees must clear up with Goran Kljajevic, and not that because you continue to hold Goran Kljajevic as president of the Economic Court we need to pass new laws. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, you said that the government has an obligation to allow fast registration of economic operators. Mr. Minister, the government has an overwhelming obligation to allow citizens of Serbia to have something to eat, and this government, unfortunately, has not yet made it possible and obviously has no intention. You further said that this register allows the public by presenting on the Agency's website. This is all nice, but there are two problems. The first problem is that this is unconstitutional, given that according to the Constitution, these data must be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The other problem is that, Mr. Minister, you are a government minister whose many citizens, unfortunately many families, don't even have a washing machine, let alone a computer and internet connection. One of your fellow Members in this congregation has tried to use the Internet in a very bold way and with disdain, says that perhaps MPs who say this do not know how to use the Internet. It is his opinion, and I have no intention of commenting on it, but I comment on the fact that the government must be aware of what state it lives in, the government must know that the social situation of its citizens is below the level of a decent man and that these are excessive concerns and prevailing problems that the Serbian government must address. Mr. Minister, that's what you were supposed to say, that's what the government was supposed to write. One and the main reason for the adoption of these laws, you say, is that you have a promised 1.4m-euro donation to form a register. That is why we need to pass these laws, that you government gentlemen and you gentlemen from certain structures of the ruling coalition spend 1.4m euros, to form that register that will probably cost less than 1.4m euros. Whom will you enroll, and what will you enroll? Because citizens won't be able to enroll in this register because they won't be able to start small and medium-sized enterprises, because the government doesn't allow loans to form small and medium-sized enterprises, you leave it to someone else. It's important that you spend 1.4m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3313	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milko Stimac has the word. He's not here. The People's Messenger Mita Avramov has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3314	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have heard from our previous exhibitors, the SRS will not support this law that was passed here in the Assembly. We're not going for the simple reason that another agency needs to be formed, and I think this time it's going to be the biggest agency, because you don't know how many members they're going to have. It is known that this agency has a board of directors, boards and directors, and it is known that the agency can also form units in other cities, and whether it will be only the largest cities or it will be the district centers, or even the centers of municipalities, you do not know. When this government proposes a law to launch a major economic momentum, to employ workers who are at the employment bureaus, a healthy situation in the country will be created at that time and we will reach a healthy dinar. Then we will surely support such a proposal by the government without thinking. What's going on right now, we're not going to do this. It is said in this law on the registration of economic operators that all economic operators have an obligation to reregister or apply to the agency when this law is passed here in the Assembly by 15 June 2005. Anyone who does not apply within that time limit will also suffer certain consequences. Article 78 says it will be a criminal offence if someone submits false registration information and can be punished from three months to five years. In Article 79, where there is an economic offense, the fines are up to 70,000 dinars. Then, a criminal offence in Article 80, where fines amount to 80,000 dinars, and it does not say anything about the amount to be reregistered by the economic operator to the agency formed by the Government. This agency, as the previous speaker Verica Radeta said, has only one obligation – to destroy the money coming from the donation. This time, the donor is Sweden, to form the agency, will receive 13m Swedish crowns or 1.4m euros from Sweden. It's just for the first trimester. So this agency needs 5,600,000 euros in a year. I think it is immediately seen how much power this agency will have and how many employees will have, and you see what is said in Article 6, the Agency's revenue and expenditure, if the annual account finds that the total revenue achieved is greater than the expenditure achieved, the difference in funds is paid at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In case the agency fails to make the planned revenues based on the performance of operations under its jurisdiction, the funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the agency can't be deficited in any way. If it does not operate positively, it will be compensated from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What does an economic operator get to register with the agency? It is said that because of electronic means of faster communication, the Internet, your website on the Internet, etc. What's it worth to our yet-functioning business entities, when they're doing their basic assets, the basic product they can't place somewhere on the Western market. We're still in lockdown, we're not blocked, gentlemen. In our country, anything and everything can get into our country. There's even onions, potatoes, beans, so we don't talk about anything else, and to get out, there's nothing we can do. We can't do anything, ours can't do anything, it can't work, and in the west it has to do everything, everything has to work, so donations are coming in, in that sense, that some agencies are being formed so that these donors can see, that they have insight into all the pores of our society, our system, our companies that are still working, how much they do, whether they're interested in buying out these companies or not, and if they're worth it to buy for as little money as possible. So I'd just like the minister to come out here and say whether these 1.4m euros is the total amount or really what it says here just for the first quarter. Who's going to provide, who's going to control all this - the government. This agency won't do anything. The agency will form on the ground, because it has the right to do so, its units, it will control those units that will form, and they will have the obligation to collect all that data and deliver to the agency what interests the agency. The agency's billing to the government, and who's gonna be chairman of that agency's board of directors, certainly someone from the government. So it's one closed system and it's clearly only greed for money, as is currently and now the procedure here in the Assembly that the OSCE pays every committee of 6,000 euros, in order to just collect the necessary information, the one they need. Each record from each board must be delivered to the OSCE for the 6,000 euros that the OSCE will pay. So it came to this stage that it's just that everything is unscathed, for the little money that comes from donations, big information is given, and that's the essence of it all. That's some reality. We know what real reality is, we know what's real. It'll be real quick. I hear someone yelling there's no quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3315	Don't pay attention, it's forbidden to throw, just keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3316	Well, it's realistic that there's no quorum, and it's realistic that June 13th will be won by an SRS candidate. I ask that the quorum be determined by electronic means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3317	According to the Rules of Procedure, you're looking for quorum, yes, yes, thank you. I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to check the quorum. Since I respect the citizens of Serbia and their ability to see something with their eyes, it seems that the electronic system is malfunctioning. I'm asking the service to see if there are enough MPs. There are 86 MPs present in the O.R. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3318	It is obvious that the quorum is not consistent with the state of the hall in this way and I suggest that the quorum be determined by the denomination of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3319	Thank you. Just to get the list, just to get the list. I'll ask the secretary, Mr. Danilovic, to make a call from the pay phone. Please close the door so we can work without fail.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3320	Avramov Mita, Albianić Milojub - present, Aligrudić Miloš, Anastovski Dragoljub, Andrić Vladimir - present, Angelković Zoran, Antic Zoran, Antonijević Dr Vuko, Arsić Veroljub, Adžić Slobodan - present, Banović Donka, Baralić Rajko - present, Belić Milorad, Beretić Anita, Bečić Igor, Blažić Branislav, Vlažinović Mr Nenad, Božić Branka - present, Buković Radojle - present, Busjetić Toma, Vjeljinović Milan, Vladimirović Živan, Vlaović Mika, Vlažanović, Vlažanović, Vlažanović, Vlažanović, Vlažarić - Vović, Dragačanović, Draganović, Dragažić, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Milić, Milić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Dragić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vić, Vić, Vić, Vić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vić, Vić, Vić, Vić, Vić, Vić, Vić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vić, Vić, Drag, Vić, Vić, Vić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Vić, Vić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Since it's an old list, instead of Vuk Draskovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3321	You didn't call Siniš Petronievich. Mr. Belic and Petronijevic say they have not been called. Please call Mr. Belic and Petronivic, because they were there, and you don't have to call Miss Jovanovic because she just replaced Mrs. Radet. You already called and signed up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3322	National MP Blagica Kostic is absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3323	Parliament Secretary Mr Marko Danilovic, as the list is old and since it has been changed, came a new MP, Blagica Kostic, only asking what the new MP is called and whether he is there. It's not here, it's all right. Here, count and let us know. And with this check, as well as a technical service check, one MP arrived in the meantime, 87 MPs are present and we can continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3324	I find it extremely inappropriate, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and an insult to the high house that the MP who sought to determine the quorum escapes from this room. It's the ultimate insolence, insolence and insult of this home. In all this, I do not call for any determination of responsibility under this Rules of Procedure, let it remain on the conscience of the distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3325	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3326	I'm advertising a breach of article 100. "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." I'd just like to appeal and ask what path this is already to look for the quorum, and if there was a quorum, which can often be seen with the naked eye. I ask the chairman to sanction the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, that whenever anyone wants to go out and seek the quorum. You can see that the quorum exists and we can't even work properly now, because of this kind of obstruction. The media are present. Everybody sees what this is about. I would pray that, for efficiency's sake, keep an eye on the dignity of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3327	You're not asking for responsibility, you're just appealing to the chairman, Mr. Tomic? I will continue to insist on working on the Rules of Procedure, insisting on working without a fight, by law and fair to everyone, and hopefully we will all endure together. Everyone has the right to seek the protection of their rights, according to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm here to protect it. The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3328	Mr. President, my ladies of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, just for the sake of information -- we have proposals for two laws that, even if they turned into medicine, could be given to citizens of Serbia, but would not improve their health status. I don't see how, suddenly, the discussion of the proposals for a law on the registration of business entities and a business registry agency turns into, my God, hungry citizens of Serbia and completely unprotected and left to themselves. If that parliamentary group or group had read the texts of these laws, then I would have realized that it had missed the subject. It's two extremely important and important laws. First, it regulates the substance of the registration of economic operators and, without getting into the details, I'd tell you that, as until now or until now, this matter has been regulated, nothing has worked. I've been in law enforcement for 30 years, and I deal with, among other things, good work and status issues of economic operators. I mean private entrepreneurs and businesses. I am responsibly saying that private entrepreneurs will be delighted to accept both of these bill proposals, because whoever has ever stood in line in front of the City's Business Department and waited for the turn in order to be able to hand over the documents, from a fifth or seventh time, depending on the municipality, knows very well what this improvement is. Also, we will no longer be in a position to return the registration of economic operators to the beginning because of the entanglement in the wrong place or the error in typing. Moreover, by simplifying the procedure and the essential responsibility of the register, which is now ahead of us, we will get far more reliable economic miles, at least as a start for the work of the subjects to register. I want to draw attention to an extremely important matter, which is within the scope of the agency's work, which will be done by the agency, where not only the registers of economic operators are found. Let's say it's less important now, we already have those registers, like I said, bad ones, we're going to have a lot better ones anyway. But we have here and something that we haven't had at all, which will trigger the wheel of economic activity and start spinning the moment these laws enter into force. These are: registers of the right to move things and rights, the register of financial leases. I suppose there will be other registers for which life has imposed a need. I think we're the only country in an environment that doesn't have registers, so the Financial Lising Act, in practice, has remained to hang somewhere on the branch and there's not enough difference between a financial lease and a bank loan, precisely because the equipment can't be bought on a financial lease, because there's no register that will register that equipment, to allow the user to get that lease and to return it. I don't think you had this in mind when you spilled trees and rocks on these regulations like this. Also, I think whoever claims that the way and procedure of registration has been scattered into, as you say, four laws and how it's being run today, good and it doesn't need to be changed at all, I don't think he knows what he's talking about, but he's just been assigned to do such a negative assessment. So by the concentration of the registration process of businesses and other entities, simplifying procedures and an absolutely more efficient solution to the very important thing, that is the status of the economic operator, these economic effects can produce much better consequences than they have been in the present way. I strongly support it, and I think that I share the opinion of the G17 Plus Group, these bill proposals, and we will certainly be unanimous when we vote on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3329	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, then has the word of the People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3330	Mr. Markovic, you continue to behave in the same manner. I thought you'd get a little bumpy this weekend, but you're the same, just like you've been breaking the Parliament's permanent Rules of Procedure since Thursday. I appeal to Article 1; these are the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament in accordance with this Rules of Procedure; Article 28, which regulates the rights and obligations of the Chair of the Assembly, which you are still; and Article 34, which speaks of what the Secretary of the National Assembly should do; and Articles 96 and 100. The 96th article says that you must immediately after requesting a word by the Rules of Procedure to give your word, regardless of whether the debate over any legislative proposal has previously been called an MP, and Article 100, which says that you must warn the MPs not to insult the dignity of the Assembly and MPs individually. Mr. Ristivojevic, apparently under-realed in the role he plays, and I highly recommended him a few months ago to leave the council office, then the stairs by the stairs, to come to the post of head of the parliamentary group. Not only did he insult the SRS parliamentary group, one of the most valuable MPs, Mrs Verica Radet, but he showed an elementary ignorance of the principles of parliamentary democracy. Mr. Ristivojevic, it's not ours and it's not on us to the MPs of the opposition, and it's the most of us here, MPs of the SRS, to provide you with a quorum. In doing so, I must warn you, although you've been making fun of it while I've been keeping records of elected MPs, that a total of 77 has been called, not 87. So far, only MPs have stolen the Assembly, and now the secretary has begun to do so. On the other hand, Mr Ristivojevic, you should know that not only did the SRS parliamentary group show you that insolence and insolence were not what Mrs Verice Radeta, a true admirer of this Rules of Procedure and democratic principles, asked you to establish the quorum, but the insolence and insolence that you usurped the Assembly and that you usurped something that didn't belong to you by the people. The way you behave, and you've begun to advocate the same metiodes and systems as your predecessor, you'll go the same way he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3331	Thank you. Are you looking for someone's responsibility? Or are you just trying to stop the injury? You're just saying, thank you. I'm really sorry, you're nice and quiet and I didn't notice that you raised your hand before the previous speaker started speaking. Feel free to be a little louder. I'm sorry, please don't worry. Here you go, replica, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3332	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, thank you and distinguished colleague Mrs. Jovanovic for such a lesson. It's just amazing to hear such nice, kind words from this pay phone at the expense of my presence here, knowledge, internships etc. But you still haven't answered the question I asked here. That is how the Messenger of the people, who advertises the quorum, can go forth. You didn't answer that. Another thing, if there are most of you in this assembly, you don't form a government when there are most of you. Something I don't see is the most of you. If there were so many of you... It's constantly going through and out of this question of quorum, through this National Assembly, through this distinguished home, I think this is the eighth or ninth time in the last few days, and every time you run from this room, you look for a quorum, and there's always a quorum. You keep looking for what you can't find. Perhaps it would be wise for you to be present here, to participate in the work of this high house, to make a constructive contribution to the debate. Then maybe this house, this house, would go to a higher level. Then I'm sure this country would function better, and we'd be able to pass better laws. Unfortunately, you don't usually participate in that. You usually leave this room. You're looking for a quorum, and you're never here, and you're full of Parliament. I really think it's the least, if it can be a constructive contribution to work, then it's the least constructive contribution. A constructive contribution is when the MP is present, when he participates in the work, when he discusses the laws, when he contributes to their improvement with the amendment, when he points out to the promoter that he has missed something. That would be the right approach. This kind of approach, as you have, looks to me like some kind of destruction, obstruction of work. I don't think it's his place, that he shouldn't be here in this house, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3333	Thank you. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared... According to the Rules of Procedure? Please, I apologize to the People's Parliament, after which, a representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is amazing how tragically you realize that someone is asking for a call to establish the presence of more than 84 MPs in this room. I can't understand why you're so nervous, especially with those of you who are so well and so successful, and so good and significant laws you're making, and who Serbian citizens love so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3335	Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, just tell me which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3336	Article 100. The rules of procedure are broken, and I'm going to say exactly what Mr. Ristivojevic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3337	Thank you. Explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3338	As you can see, I don't mind the rudeness and rudeness of some who, I guess, want to show that they won't hear a political opponent speak (a number of MPs leaving the hall). They talk about themselves and your government, Mr. Ristivoevich, and I know it's hard for you now, but you have to admit I'm right, but what do I do to you? So there's us most. That's right, Mr. Ristivoevich. Because it is the most Serbian citizens who support the plan and programme for the future of the Serbian Radical Party. That's why he's got us the most. And we didn't form a Serbian government because we didn't want to participate in a concentration government. Because we didn't want to participate with everyone in the government. Because we chose. We wanted to choose because we wanted to offer citizens solutions to the many problems they face. We offered your political party to join us in the coalition and we offered no one else. So we haven't traded for days, the 28th election's over, the 29th we did it. Is that true? Yes, it is. Did we change our mind? Changed your offer? Did we trade anything? Have we thought about the concentration government? Well, we'd be the most powerful in that concentration government. If for nothing else, that's because of the number of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the fakic influence, because of the majority mood of Serbian citizens. But we didn't agree to that. We didn't want to go to the government with those you agreed with. Because we didn't want the gods and the mafia to determine Serbia's future, but honest people. That's the difference between you and me. It's not good, it's not polite to tell ladies about impudence and insolence. They fight seriously and – yes, it is nice to say – a tough way for their political idea, and they fight bravely. That's what they did in the previous period. They won't give you a quorum. Yes, she asked for it because she wants to show you how you do nothing, how you underestimate Serbian citizens, because you're not even 80 in the O.R. (President: Time. There should be at least 150 of you in the O.R., but you're not here. Well, she won't help you with that, so she can sit in the O.R., give you a quorum like that. Or anyone else. It's the work of the opposition and it's no destruction whatsoever. We haven't broken your benches, nor your payphone (President: Once more)... I'm finishing up, Mr. Markovic. You're very kind today. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3339	And by the way, you're the only one who ends up in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3340	I haven't received a warning yet. So it's always going to work for the opposition and there's absolutely nothing destructive about it, and you know it well. Don't calm your nerves, or, I'd say, possibly fear the results of the presidential election by raising your tone to the ladies present here, because they are in a political, idea and ideological sense incomparably stronger than you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3341	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Bubalo. Please, it's forbidden to interrupt the speaker and throw it away. I understand your apology, Mr. Wolfie, continue, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3343	I want, like last time, to give a brief review of these discussions that took place today during the afternoon. Of course, the discussion isn't over yet, and we'll have opportunities for some broader elaboraters. Fortunately, in the morning most of the discussions had nothing to do with the proposals of these two laws, and I was so relieved. I can't say that certain things weren't constructive, and so I'm going to try to give some answers, of course, to those questions that are looking for answers, because most of them have discussed in a positive direction, so there's no need to give answers to them. First, it is true that I am acting as Minister of Economic Relations with abroad and it is true that Mr. Marsicanin resigned as Minister for Economic Affairs and Privatisation. It's a moral act, a private matter, and that doesn't leave the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation without a major. The ministry still works, has its deputy minister and is in full capacity. The government, respecting this assembly, has decided to defend the laws before the assembly, because that is what is foreseen. Just in order to respect the congregation, I'm here now. I guess it also has something to do with being a businessman my whole life and what I just did when it came to company registration, I got a lot of knowledge and experience. Today, and that's one of the information, I was supposed to be with the prime minister in Romania. I personally asked him that, precisely because of respect for the Assembly, because of this highest legislative body, I would not go that way, but to be in parliament. I think that's enough reason to remove any ambiguity and speculation. Now I'd like to refer to some of the discussions we've heard. Why the judicial authority interferes with the executive, when it is precisely this executive authority that gives full support to the independence of the judicial authority. This question is entirely in the hands of the executive and should remain there. When it comes to public debate, the President of the Higher Trade Court was a member of the task force, and round tables were organised with judges of trade courts, statistics and the Income Administration. One of the debaters, who focused a large part of his discussion precisely on criticising these bill proposals, spoke of how it is necessary to maintain the measurement of the decision we have today in the courts, which is precisely the biggest and strongest reason why all these changes are being made and taken. With us registration takes 71 days, of which only the court process lasts for more than 30 days. I think that's enough reason to achieve much more efficiency than what we have in the current system. There was also talk of responsibility. Indeed, there is no greater degree of responsibility than provided for in Article 78. Proposal for a registration law, where a prison sentence is provided for those who provide incorrect information. We think there's finally no need for the state to protect the economy and economic operators anymore, but actually that economic operators should protect their interests. This is the best way these interests can be protected. Of course, things should never be glorified and in some unrealistic contexts. Foreign investors, as well as our business entities, have also put a number of objections into the business process. All these remarks did not stop many foreign economic operators from doing business in our territory. So despite these shortcomings that existed in our company registration system, companies have also founded foreign business entities and ours. Nor should it be expected that the adoption of the new law will now fuel the wave of foreign and domestic investors to set up businesses. But what's a fact, we're going to have one much more efficient, much simpler system, which will significantly help register economic operators. Otherwise, if one law could settle its whole life and dress up in a better future, then likely laws like that would be written. In the end, since there are not those who were the most opposed to these proposals and I wanted them to hear some of my reviews, so I'm going to cut it short. One MP points out that there are no direct investments, and only a little earlier in his same speech said that one of the presidential candidates had set up a brick. This one brick marks the largest greenfield investment or should I say the biggest investment on the ice, which at this point is in realisation, not only in our country, but in this part of Europe. That brick marks 75m euros. I must also say that I had the happy pleasure of being only in May, and I participated in several places, or I was present at the marking or beginning of the realization of certain projects, or their successful completion, like the factory the other day that I opened on behalf of the Prime Minister. I want to tell you that May is one of the most successful months in the last few years, when it comes to foreign affairs, direct investment, or from the perspective of the beginning, or from the aspect of the end, where each of them had elements abroad, or foreign investors were present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3344	Thank you. I'm taking a break until 3:00. [[After break – 15,40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our session. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask the Members to insert their parliamentary cards into the MPs of the unit. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have sufficient quorum to continue our work. The word of the People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević is not there. The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic, and let MP Sreto Peric be prepared. Mr. Rafaelovich, your task force is five minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3346	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the business moment has broken on me, but it doesn't matter. The debate on this law has shown that I was right, that it is unnecessary and that we are wasting our time needlessly. The point of criticism was not about the essence of the law, but about the form. One of the opposition MPs said that it's easy for us to push government proposals because we have a parliamentary majority. This law, the law on registration of economic operators, does not have a parliamentary majority, but rather a two-thirds majority, which one opposition group said is a good reform law to support. So, on this point, there is no need to discuss it, and I do not want to repeat myself in this short time, to repeat what Mr. Krstin and Novakovic said, or the examples brought out here by lawyers and people who have faced problems in the previous way of registration. Whether the agency or not, there's no story, and it's not even expensive. It must be cheaper than those many thousands of apartments shared in previous congregation and government meetings. What was I gonna say? The essence of supporting this government was trust in the government and the minister. The government's job and business is that they came here because there were obviously problems. They found a triple economy, uncompetitive, with all the problems that followed it. Their task is primarily to create an economic environment and to find places that have braked and have created all the problems. It is the law on the registration of economic operators that will solve the problem. It'll be easier to register, faster to access the data, and the data will be in one place. Then we come to what is most important to me in the whole story, and this is what I would like to suggest to Mr. Secretary in particular, which is that after the registration, it is not important to have an insight into how many and what kind of business we have: it is important to connect the ministries, several ministries on this matter, institutes that have to do an analysis and see from that data what to do next, in which direction to direct the loans and how to help which businesses. Because it doesn't matter if we have catering facilities or businesses, or small and medium-sized enterprises that will do service activities. It's important for us to produce consistent and quality goods for Europe. It's exactly going to be the highest quality of this law. I don't want to talk about it anymore, and I'm probably getting a little bit closer and running out of time for this discussion. I'd just like to answer some remarks. A fellow MP said it was sad, and that I would end this discussion, that someone was constantly warning us from the EU and pointing to some gaps and what we should do. I completely agree with that, but I think the citizens of Serbia should be explained why this happened. In the late 1980s, the 20th century, we were known as the state, our country was on the verge of the European Union in front of all the countries of Eastern and Southeast Europe. Suddenly, very quickly, we found ourselves at the beginning of a column as one of the countries that would be very difficult to enter the European Union, or has to do a lot of things and exactly what the minister here is doing, and I'd like to thank Mr. Minister, he really respected the Assembly, it wasn't a phrase that you said, all the time here, all of a sudden we met, I say, at the beginning of the columns of great responsibilities to join the European Union. Now we can talk a lot about it, but I wouldn't waste any time. I think a gentleman from Novi Sad, a poet, gave an answer and I would suggest it to some MPs, and also to citizens who didn't hear it, and I believe she heard most of it, but to repeat, he wrote a song in 1990, and then, he said, they came in the '90s sad and unhappy. I think critics should be recognized in that song and heard several times. I hope the citizens of this time won't let us repeat that year and make a mistake at the beginning of the 21st century that we made at the end of 20. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3347	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Mircic. For the SRS parliamentary group 41 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3348	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I understand the desire and the intention to arrange a particular area in the best possible way and all your efforts in this direction we support. Our desire is to arrange certain things in the best possible way. You hear now that there is nothing to be criticised, which means when parliament is elected, the government of the Republic of Serbia is elected, and then those who did not support the government do not have to sit in this assembly. That's not true and it's impossible. Those who do not make up the government certainly make a huge and huge contribution to order certain things in the way that citizens do, and not just as the Government would sometimes like. Listening to an explanation by an authorised promoter, i.e. from the Government, I got the impression that a bit of living in a fairy-tale country, as it is said, the existing registration system is the brakes of economic development. It is true that certain things are not very regulated, perhaps in the regulations that exist, that is, the effectiveness of the registration authority is not the best. But it needs to be controlled, it needs to be accelerated and done faster, better and more effectively. In fact, every state authority should carry out its tasks as established by the laws that apply regardless of when and who has passed them. So, they got their required majority, they became positive and applicable, and they need attention. Then it is said, if a law like this is adopted and passed, we expect a large rebirth, we expect a large number of registered operators, and in itself it means nothing. We have, you have seen in the light of this law, about 250,000 registered companies, so it's not a problem with unregistered economic operators, it's a problem in an ambience in which an economic operator already exists is working and accomplishing its objectives and tasks. It is said that efficiency will improve and improve. We can do so in other ways, indeed, the SRS MPs want the efficiency of all state bodies to be improved and improved, so that citizens who pay for all these functions feel that they are doing better and more effectively, or that they can expect a time when they will start to live better. Here I have recorded several remarks concerning the specific members of the Bill on the Registration of Business Entities. Article 14 of the proposed law states – the funds resulting from the remuneration referred to in Article 1 of this Article are the revenues of the agencies and will be used for the current business and development of the register. That's true, probably when the agency and if it starts to work, that would be so, and where to finance the initial work for equipment, technical means and personnel. I'm afraid this one MP said the government abolished nine illegal agencies, but this is the return of agencies to Serbia's life, to Serbia's political life. The same agency, if the agency law was adopted, would be passed by the assembly majority, but that does not mean that the laws are because they receive support from the congregation's majority rational and effective and that they correspond to the citizens of Serbia. Then, there is the following remark, if registration is sent through mail, so it is said that the time of its arrival to the agency will be taken from the moment it arrives, I don't know why it would not from the moment it is submitted to the post, if sent by mail, as is the case for the other submissions in legal traffic. It is then said that if the registrar fails to resolve the registration application within the prescribed time limit, the application for registration application will be deemed to have been adopted and is required to apply the requested registration without delay in the register. What happens if the submitted application does not meet certain conditions, i.e. it could not be accepted under positive legal rules, what will happen in that case, whether it does not matter that it has certain legal or other shortcomings and what they will practically live up to in legal traffic. Article 78 states which actions, i.e. actions, commit crimes. A growing number of legal regulations, i.e. a bill recently placed above the agenda of this assembly, provide for a large number of criminal acts, and I think most of this is already covered by some, or the Criminal Law, so there is no need to duplicate it. The economic operators referred to in Article 4 of this Act, which are entered into force by the date of entry into force of this Act, shall be obliged to submit on the prescribed form a registration application for translation into the register by 15 June 2005 at the latest, and you are aware that we are adopting this law by an urgent procedure. Lately, all the laws have been passed by emergency procedure, and I'm afraid it doesn't become the rule of this congregation majority, rather than the laws going through a certain procedure. Then, very often, the practice is used to make a large number of laws, and you saw in one of the previous days of the Assembly's work, we had five proposals that were united and conducted at the same time, and I don't think that's effective. The time that we can save, or save, could be used in another way, that is, we could better prepare and explain the legal proposals and I don't think it should be at all cost and it shouldn't be a practice to bring a large number of legislative proposals together and conduct a joint debate. Someone pointed out that for a long time when the registration of certain economic operators, it is not at all controversial, there is probably that in practice, but surely we have more efficient and business courts that, within a certain law, complete their part of the work, as there are municipal authorities that very quickly and effectively at the request of citizens, or businessmen, since it is registered in local self-government, end their work, as is the case in Ljubovija, where I come from, and there is no longer than a day or two. If the party wants to register an economic operator, i.e. an independent or crafts operation, it ends in one day. In the end, my colleague, the honourable People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, wouldn't answer one MP, and I still have to. He said -- and looking in this direction -- I'm not sure you can use computers. I have to answer yes, we can't, but we can make them real.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3349	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3350	What's obvious is that in some ways this is a stale law. In terms of the staff, this government has taken over from before the government. The majority of this government was against the bill and it is a little strange, but of course, it is the right of the ruling coalition to propose before this assembly laws and, with the consent of the majority, to adopt these laws. In any case, it is of interest for us to simplify the principle and system of company registration. How and how this new government will do so, it is already a problem that they have to face and solve, and whether it will be in the sphere of administration or judiciary, it is a question of what kind of technical solution is required. What is significant, in any case, might be better if it were within the judiciary, however, such a technical solution found, if it were centralised, would not be bad. The important thing is that it's a simplified procedure. For Serbia's economy, it is not only important to carry out a single control of registered or newly registered companies, but it is in Serbia's interest to establish criteria and conditions for registering so-called foreign companies and companies. We are witnesses that because of reform laws, such as this, we come into a situation that we simply register so-called "acten purses and bows" companies, which are foreign companies, come here without any obligation to accept labour, to open production facilities, but come simply to use Serbia as a market and nothing else. What we have learned and have experience from the previous government and its expert work, especially the part represented by the former finance minister, is that one Russia is so powerful and rich, it has realised that such experts are toiling, and based on a similar law as the bill here, it has obliged foreign investors, or foreign companies, in such a way that they are obliged to receive a certain number of domestic labour forces, with clearly prescribed rules under which they can function. If we have in mind that a single registry agency is formed within the competent ministry, which will be sponsored by the Swedish government, then we must understand once, we cannot believe so much more in this simple fact that it is only the goodwill of the government of another country to help us. That help is always conditioned. We're interested in what the consequences of any conditioning will be. A million and 200,000 euros, realistically or relatively, is neither large nor small money, but we are already very experienced and aware of the fact that any assistance that comes has both some conditions and preconditions. If it is justified by the fact that the Swedish government, in order to help us with good intentions, remains time, and for us, as opposition MPs from the SRS, remains this speaker that we now warn in time that there is a real danger that there is a real danger that someone who gives money, looking at simple logic, is also seeking a favor for that money. How's that agency gonna react tomorrow if there's a condition, not an agency as an agency, which is a continuity with past power. You know, past power was characterized by the establishment of bureaus and agencies. The bureaus have been shown and proven already confirmed by police skills that they are fatal to some, and the agency is coming in the coming time, to see how devastating they are. In this particular case, how will the agency react to possible conditions? That's what we're very interested in. As far as data centralisation is concerned, there is no problem whether it will be in the agency, whether it is in any ministry or any other institution, it is not so important, because in the end, technically, we have progressed and there is equipment, and in particular knowledge, that you do not need to explain to us that it is a big, complicated or complex job and now it is necessary for people, ordinary citizens of Serbia, to raise to such a pedestal that they think it will be a rebirth for Serbia. No, it won't, it'll just be about simplifying the registration and registration of existing companies, uniting one file or data on these companies, but what if we're faced with the reality that exists, and that's that whoever donated the money is looking for an exclusive right not only to have insight, but also some other secrets, especially when it comes to reviewing, which people would say - a picture of one company. Then it's in the domain of some, as we've regulated by law, business secrets. Who will be the one to say that there is no danger at any time that the data available to the agency, which refers to registration and operation, especially those companies, will not be abused. Who's the one who vouches? In this case, the bill states that it is a ministry, but there is no logical link to economic co-operation with abroad. Why am I telling you this? For the simple reason that we are now facing an affair that is shaking Serbia, which is a sugar affair, where we have the current Deputy Prime Minister, who, as Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government, was in charge of relations and relations with abroad, said he has no problem with exporting sugar, and now as vice-president of the republican government, forgetting that he has performed a responsible function, says he now has crime. Not to be told about the transition from the Ministry of Economic Co-operation with the Foreign Ministry to the Ministry of Economy, and to tell us MPs, in particular opposition MPs – who, whether or not, want to do so, have the right to do so by the Rules of Procedure, have at least left it, to criticise all proposals, not only for criticism but to improve the legal basis – if it had been previously under the authority of one ministry, this ministry has been reorganised, reformed or otherwise done, we have nothing to do with it. The bill proved not to be a good one, and at one point the thoughtless congregation was pictured. This is our Serbian radicals' real fear and for these reasons we warn Serbian citizens only for these reasons. Don't find yourself so hurt or offended. After all, for most of the coalition government, you were against this bill. How come you changed your mind? Are you creating a new coalition? Don't, gentlemen, never in politics see that something's done. There's always a policy of countless suspenses, and thus countless combinations. Since some MPs have shown this in person that they are participating in several parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3351	Go back to the subject, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3352	I was really afraid that Mr. Markovic wouldn't be at the chair table, then I'd really react, and yet this is how the person who wanted it or not is nice to us radicals. We're not that part of Europe today by ISO-9001, we still prefer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3353	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is pathetic when the main reason for the adoption of any law, any legislative project, regulation or anything else motivated by a donation from a foreign country, its government, an NGO, or I don't know who. The bill is just motivated by such a donation and the speed it has made up has affected that its members are largely opposed to a large number of members of individual laws that are valid and which process similar topics, and that some members even with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party has a large number of objections to the proposed bill and has tried eventually to correct it with its amendments, although it is very difficult to correct mistakes here. A partial view of this law shows that its essence is, in fact, to take part in the jurisdiction of trade courts, and it might not be bad for the minister of justice to sit here in the front rows, given that this law partially treats its resolution, that it explains why it is necessary to exempt from the jurisdiction of commercial courts the registration of economic operators in the register. In the reasons for the adoption of this law, the proposer listed several. It is said, firstly, that because of economics, that a large number of judges and registries do the job. I'd just like to remind you that the business of the court register, when it comes to economic operators, is usually one judge of a trade court, possibly two or three when it comes to larger courts. Furthermore, it is said that there is a certain lack of urgency regarding the register, that according to some record of 250,000 registered and registered companies only about 90,000 are actively working and perhaps these data are accurate, perhaps that this urgency should be corrected, but it could have been done with certain legal acts, leaving it in the jurisdiction of the trade court, not to invent hot water, not to invent something completely new, as was the case with this agency for business registers. This reminds me a little of that communist philosophy that says there's nothing wrong with us before, that it should be destroyed, that it should be forgotten and that history begins with us. After all, all these agencies that exist in our country, which are patented by the previous regime, serve nothing but to make certain party personnel work for life. Furthermore, what was particularly surprising to me is part of an explanation where it is said that currently in a small number of countries, there is a responsibility for registration of economic operators to courts, that these are usually African countries of the French speaking area, countries in transition, means countries similar to us, and of the countries of the European Union only Austria, Germany and France. Now especially one part says that Germany and France are not a good example of European practice where registration is in the jurisdiction of courts. Now here we've shown the Germans and the French and the Austrians that they don't work at all, that they don't know what they're doing, so I suggest you patent these agencies, eventually you can do it to the Germans and the French, when their eyes open, when they see it's not right, you can sell it to them for some dinar. Another important thing is the applicant's potential, which is to introduce and edit the electronic registration process as a newspaper. It is said that the agency will apply this paper to the extent that it allows the environment. Personally, I believe that networking into a single system is not currently feasible to the extent that it should be, and if it is, it is certain that you are not able to do it properly, because if it were, you would have introduced a unique electoral list, which is the same kind of networking into a single system by now. Finally, I would like to refer to the assessment of the amount of financial resources needed to implement this law, where you say that no budget funds are needed and that for the first three months of the operational costs of the register of economic operators, funds from the donation of the Kingdom of Sweden amounting to 13 million Swedish crowns are provided. That's about a billion and a half euros. What we're going to do after those three months, when that donation is gone, that's not what you're going to say. This will go back to the budget, that is, on the back of the citizens. As a reason why this law must go by emergency procedure, which has become chronic and, I say, already the practice of this Parliament, you say that one of the most important reasons is to prevent the adverse consequences that delaying the adoption of this law would have, given that the term of use of funds until 31 August 2004 is. As far as the consequences are concerned, I can only say that the harmful consequences of your government are felt by all Serbian citizens and will therefore vote realistically for Tomislav Nikolic on June 13th.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3355	The word is made by MP Igor Becic (not here). The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3356	Ladies and gentlemen, we are near the end of the debate on the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators and perhaps it is time to make a summary at the end. What is seen when this legal text is taken into account is its similarity or, rather, the complete identity of the proposal submitted by the then government to this assembly last July. It just shows that this is the government of continuity, meaning it's a government that will work in the same way as the previous one, and probably end up in the same way as the previous one. It is a law on the registration of economic operators, the essence of which is to confiscate the jurisdiction of trade courts which have so far carried out this business and to entrust that competence to the Agency for the Registration of Business Entities. The bill promoter explains why he's doing it here in the bill. I'll just list a few points I'd like to point out. The first reason is – "the existing registration system is considered unstimulative for the development of the economy". I'm very interested, and I didn't hear it from the promoter, how is this new registration system via the agency stimulating the development of the economy? I just can't see it in the text we got. Then, it is said that the shortcomings in the existing way of registration are "determination of institutions because economic operators are registered in 17 trade courts and 161 municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". If we take into account that these courts carry out other jobs than registration, and that the agency planned by the next law will also have, besides the central agency in Belgrade, their facilities in the districts and municipalities, then we will get to the same number of people who will be hired, but these people, registries in the agency, will be professionally tied to registration only and no other work will be done. Thereafter, there is an uneconomy, lack of awareness of the register, measurement in decision-making, etc. When it comes to measurement in decision making, what is the essence of this proposal, it is that the registries provided for by this law have the function of a technical person, persons who will only do a specific technical job. It shall not be included in the accuracy of the data that the applicants supply, their trueness. Even in law, the promoter says he will not be responsible for the accuracy and reliability of this data. In other words, it is said immediately that there is a reasonable doubt that your data will not always be correct. That's bad, and one example here, I'm going to support my claim that this is bad, an example that will make it clear how much better the existing system is than what's being offered. This is an example from Baja Garden, a place I come from. It's about the company Laminat AD, which was privatized two years ago. Since the new owner has failed to meet the obligations of the contract, they have been busy on strike since December of last year, for six months, and finally this case came before the Serbian Parliament's Privatisation Committee, following a number of failed attempts by the Agency to amend and fix something in the company. The buyer of this company, Borisvoje Scoric, from Loznica, tried in a bad way to deceive and employees of the company, and the public, by asking the Trade Court in Užic to register its recapitalisation, which he was obliged to under contract made in the purchase of the company. However, the commercial court, taking into account the documentation provided, found that the capitalisation was not regular because it was a loan from the parent company, a short-term loan which, under the contract, could not have been used for the recapitalisation, because the contract required final funds or some material assets to be entered into into this new company. Therefore, by considering this request, the trade court has decided not to accept the request and not to register it. If this law was in force, the registrator, as a technical person, would probably register this. I'm asking you now, since you're referring to all the damages to the trial by this law, who's going to run the trial, from where the material assets to workers who, in a particular case, haven't received salaries, profits or received very small, minimum earnings for two years. Where do they get money to run long-term court proceedings with new owners? Everything makes me think and doubtful that the aim of the promoter is to protect those who in a suspicious way bought most of the Serbian economy, that they can register it uninterruptedly on their names, to work, to fire workers and that no one is responsible for it. And for all will be paid by employees, who will remain without a job, who have built all this for years of hard work, and have lost nothing in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3357	The word is from MP Zoran Masic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3358	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, and this law, as well as most of the other laws that you have provided to us for consideration in parliament, you of the ruling coalition explain as reform and of importance for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. This law, in your opinion, should create a better environment for the establishment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, as well as for larger foreign investments. And you explain this law – that it is in line with the European directives and regulations of the European Union, but with your interesting and concise interpretation of these regulations. Because there is no other way to understand the reasoning of the legislator of the bill that Austria, Germany and France are not a good example of European practice of registration of economic operators, only because the registration of economic operators in these developed capitalist states is carried out in courts and is similar to our now existing, valid system of registration of economic operators. In most cases, I agree with the assessment of the unscheduledness of the register, the untimely introduction of data changes by operators, the inequality of practices of existing registers, the length of the registration procedure and the absence of mandatory deadlines for application. However, the expectations of the SRS MPs were that the government and the competent ministry would propose a rational law, which would significantly eliminate the perceived shortcomings and bring our regulations, these substances, into line with the regulations and directives of the European Union. When I say rational, I certainly find it totally unnecessary to form an agency for economic registers. Because this agency is an unnecessary cost and a waste of state money, even though it is a donation from the Kingdom of Sweden. Without false demagogy, 100 million dinars, how much should be spent to form the agency, this amount represents the entire annual budget of a scientific research facility with around 90 employees, working at least 30 magistrates and doctors of science, with all the costs of doing scientific research. So that's the annual budget of one such institution, so I ask you, what contribution can one research institution make to the state, and how much such agency, which needs to be centralized to register business entities. Therefore, I am asking myself and you, who are proposing this, how many of the agency will have a registrar, which is legally a natural person run by the registry, appointed by the Agency's board of directors, with prior consent from the Government, and has to meet the obligations defined in Articles 10, 69 and 74 on an up-to-date basis. A bill of this law. If I have counted correctly, it is some 13 different obligations and powers, which every day in each registration application must verify and verify compliance with the conditions for registration, and, if all the conditions for registration laid down in Article 22 are met. The proposal for this law shall, within five days, adopt a solution which adopts and registers the registration in the register. I'm sure the registrar can't do it and respect the deadlines and there will be a lack of urgency in registering economic operators. It certainly won't be important to fix the possibility of electronic application, because according to Article 20. The draft law for the date and time of submission by electronic means shall be taken the date and time of delivery of the original documentation to the Agency, and not only the application submitted by electronic means. Therefore, to you who are making the ruling coalition, I suggest that you seriously consider and accept our objections made in this principle debate, as well as under the amendments that will follow, and make serious corrections to this law. Finally, I have to answer to a fellow MP who, on Thursday, at the beginning of the debate on this law, insulted the SRS parliamentary group. An esteemed colleague, we know we use computers, not only do we know we're using, but we know we're making very successful programs. Our performances are recognised by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore vote for us. Due to our programme for the development of modern and real Serbia, citizens will vote for Tomislav Nikolic, our candidate for president of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3359	The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by Petar Jojic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not vote in favour of the proposed laws, because the laws placed on our agenda are not the best speeches and the large number of amendments that the government has submitted, as the legislator of these laws, and thus very clearly showed us what its relationship to the Assembly is, and hence, to the citizens of Serbia, because the procedure is being put into practice by legislative proposals that are not seriously considered at the cabinet's session, and in addition, insists that this goes according to an urgent procedure. For an emergency procedure, the conditions laid down in Article 157 are certainly not met. The Rules of Procedure, because this member says – that the law can be extremely passed by emergency procedure. On the agenda of this session there are 11 laws and all laws are under emergency procedure. So there's nothing extraordinary about it. Furthermore, only the law governing issues and relations created under circumstances that could not be foreseen can be adopted by an urgent procedure. This area has been regulated by some other laws for a long time. So there's nothing urgent here, or anything that couldn't have been predicted. One of the main reasons for the establishment of an agency for business registers is the donation of about 1.4m euros to the Kingdom of Sweden. It's almost like someone's offering to bear the costs of rehabilitating the amputation of the leg, but provided you amputate your leg by the end of the month. And that you, then, say, is that the leg is healthy, but if I don't amputate it, the donations fail. The basic issue when adopting the law, which regulates this very important area, should be what is best for economic operators, and whether this is a fundamentally good solution, and not – how do we get some donation? The SRS considers that registration of economic operators must remain in the jurisdiction of courts. I remind you that there has been a lot of dust and affairs in the past regarding the enrolment of certain companies in the register, about the enrolment of responsible persons, while these actions were performed by judges, so the question arises – what kind of affairs we will fall into when the registries do the job. Law registrars are defined as natural persons who run the register. No criteria are prescribed, neither in terms of professional training, work experience, nor in any other respect. For someone to do this job, very important and responsible, it's enough just to be a physical person. The SRS believes that the way in which registers are kept should be modernised, made more efficient and accessible to the public, but we also believe that it is necessary for this job to remain in the jurisdiction of judges and courts, which is also prescribed by the applicable Company Act, under which only a court can run a register of economic operators. We are also not satisfied with the arguments that we received from those who have suggested that we adopt this law, because I will remind you that Mr Ivanji, in his explanation, said that when he went to the trade court to point out the problem of registration he faced complete misunderstanding and that he called it fat finger syndrome. As we heard, the employees in the trade court had so many thick fingers that they couldn't get keys on the keyboard, so they couldn't even run the register in electronic form. To this kind of exposure, the chairman, of course, did not react because he belonged to the ruling majority, but I have to condemn this exposure, because I find it very ugly and inappropriate to mock people and mock them for their physical traits. I ask the ruling majority – will the registration agency work exclusively for people with thin fingers. This, sir, has offended all the employees of the trade court. I wouldn't even mention this. I didn't want to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure at the time, although he was definitely injured in the National Assembly's dignity work, but I had to do this for my colleagues from the Trade Court, who responded afterwards, called me personally and our MP group, asking for an apology. What you said is certainly not nice, and think about the apology yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3361	National MP Petar Jojic. He's not here. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. He's not here. National MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3362	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I'm going to try to say a few words about the proposal for a law on the Agency for Economic Registers and the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Business Entities. We've heard and seen two criticisms here in the last few days. Those who come from a political group should not waste time because they are unfounded on any basis and unserious. The criticisms of the other political option, recognising the quality of the legal proposals, tried to credit themselves to the previous government, whose members they were. To this day, I was convinced that the previous Minister of Business and Privatisation was engaged exclusively in the sale of Serbian firms, however, this morning I learned that he was involved in something else. Looks like it was the ministry and writing laws. And that seems to be good, quality laws. Progress is complete, however, in practice the ministry was most concerned with the sale, or privatisation of companies. The sale, which in many cases was highly suspicious, and the ministry did not, or at all, deal with the creation of conditions for the functioning of business entities and the economic development of Serbia. On this occasion, I would like to remind and commend the Trade Court in Leskovac, who did the right thing in the event of the privatisation of the Chemical Industry "Health". No, I can say freely, and in accordance with the law, but rightly enough that he did not want to accept the government's orders, or the ministry, to significantly reduce the value of the companies privatised, or to reduce the value of the privatisation of "Health". It was done by order of a higher court of trade. In all this, the ministry has not acted at all in a responsible and adequate manner. In addition, it has not worked in other cases in Serbia, so, as far as I am aware, the only control of the privatisation of a company was carried out at the time of the previous government and ministry. All these failures will be reviewed and removed as far as possible by the current government. I also expect it to be established that the chemical industry "Health" is privatised at an unwarranted low price, i.e. the value of the chemical industry has been unwarrantedly low, which means that this value is multiplely reduced. For what? It is likely that in the replica, Mr. former Minister Vlahovic will say or the authorities will determine. What is certain, which is that the previous government has given one bill, which did not want to consider in this assembly, and it is not our fault, it is neither the current government. The solutions are legally within the framework of what is a European Community recommendation and in line with good European practice, except for one bad example of Germany, where the registration of economic operators has been carried out in several places. We know that so far, the registration of economic operators has been carried out by a trade court, and before, the economic court and local self-government, or the municipal authorities of the administration. This has proved to be a non-quality solution, so much so that when registering trade courts, there have been various delays, various volunteerisms and various illegal procedures and behaviours, which has led, I don't have to be precise, but about 280,000, I'll be correct, I'll say what I didn't remember, 250,000 registered companies, only close to 90,000 is active. The remaining companies are being held as existing and do not operate and do not operate, there is no insight into the predominant value of the company that is registered in the register of trade courts. On the other hand, in the administrative bodies for the registration of entrepreneurs, the data that has not been managed in an unskilled manner is highly divulged, precisely because of the possibility that those persons involved in the registration may not be sufficiently educated or unskilled professionally. Different ways in Serbia, from local self-government to local self-government, from municipality to municipality, have been registered by these entrepreneurs, so that it could be in practice that entrepreneurs register both fictitiously and subsequently and retroactively. In one word, there were various abuses. The removal of registration of economic operators from commercial courts can cause certain reactions, especially from the framework of commercial courts that will feel threatened, that is to say, that they will not have enough to deal with, and possibly their fear for the future, or personal existence, which is completely beyond the domain of considering this issue and these laws. Because, after all, trade courts retain that basic part of their existence, ingenuity, which is exactly the trial and dispute resolution. By registering business entities in one place, in the way proposed by these laws, we will very much help to make this registration absolutely clear, visible, the possibility of checking very quickly, through a system of computerised and thus every participant in economic life will be able to check very quickly all data on the type of business relationship, which is one of the conditions, cannot say the most important, but very important condition that in Serbia, that is, in our country, the development and creation of conditions for the competition and the development of economic operators. In front of this government, which has shown its ability for a very short time and its intention to just declare and create conditions for the same competition, it will also be a difficult job to enable and create conditions for competition and economic development in a broken state, both economically and economically torn. I have no doubt that, given the behaviour so far, both the competent ministry and the republican government will succeed. It is only proof that the Republic government is taking responsibility, both to this assembly home and to this Parliament, and to citizens and to Serbia. The remarks that it allegedly took her two months to read the laws were removed by the current minister, as the government is responsible. What he proposes, he proposes responsibly, and before that, before submitting the proposal, he considers all possibilities. I hear some side dissatisfaction. I expect that's exactly what this speaker is going to say and make arguments. Criticisms for criticism are totally obvious and there is no need to answer. These laws as a modern solution, in any case, should be supported and adopted, because of those laws that will allow, and I will mention a very exploited word, further reform of Serbia and economic life, especially in Serbia; real reform, unlike the past many mentioned and fictitious cobage reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3363	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, we've heard here all the time for criticism. In fact, the indictment of the previous MP to be done by those who oppose this law or those who support it, but do not give the new government the right to have this law prepared and hence the criticism for criticism. Essentially, criticising the previous government and the previous government, and I see that this is still an obsession for you, and what makes me very happy, you've been making arguments that can be called criticism in one word for criticism. We have heard that there is an advocate for the free competition of operators participating in the market, while not accepting market value as a basic postulate on which the Privatisation Act is based. If you personally think and if you feel that something much more valuable thanks to your previous, I suppose, business experience or thanks to everything you learned and learned in the previous period, then in that tender, which was completely open to the public, you should have gone out with business stakeholders, if you have them, and made an offer, which is 10 times bigger. The market value is the basic foundation of the Privatisation Act, and I therefore respond to the mentioned case "Health", which you can read in one of the introductory members of the Privatisation Act, which is that the task of the Privatisation Act is to avoid the full flow of information, to ensure the equality of conditions for all potential competitors, and that it is on the bidders, potential customers, to come out with their price. When we talk about the value of the company, the value of the company, let's not forget for a moment that capital is the difference between assets and liabilities, that capital, the value of capital depends on, among other things, the yielding power of each individual enterprise. If the yielding power is gone, there's no value in the capital. Now, when you criticise certain cases of privatisation, I would be much more pleased and say, there was this and this company, a potential buyer who was prevented from participating in the privatisation process, which is the opposite of the Privatisation Act, and not that here unfoundedly, by criticizing it, you represent your personal observations on the value of a company. That value, once again I want to say, is market value and it is, as with any other turnover of goods and services, the result of supply and demand. You know very well that we had a whole series of cases where the initial price was increased 100 and more times, as there were cases where the initial capital price was insufficient to interest any buyer. And the famous case, which I often quote very often, is a company in Sainta, where the initial price was everything, if I'm not mistaken, 2.5 thousand dinars. Not even five employees wanted to buy the company, because they know that buying the company would make a huge amount of commitment. (President: Time.) Only two sentences, and I'm done. What's my message: every privatisation process should be controlled by the ministry. What we heard yesterday from the director of the privatisation review, there is control of the privatisation process and that is the ministry's task. This must not be used in a way that has stopped the whole process, as has already happened in Serbia, among other things. As for the ministry, Mr. Cvetkovic, don't worry about the ministry's work. As the ministry worked, the best grade was given by those who really understand what was part of the ministry's responsibility and competence. The fact that the Assembly didn't discuss this law in June last year, the bankruptcy law, the company law, is just one detail that I made today... (Chairman: Please, it's been five minutes. ) The ministry sent six laws to the National Assembly and prepared more than 40 regulations, and had active communication with the Serbian Parliament. In the end, the growth in the industrial volume of production you are today is the result of the work of the previous government and, above all, privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3365	Thank you. On what grounds? Here you go. He mentioned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3366	Mr. Vlahovic had no need for this kind of food, this dish and anxiety are just talking about being wrong. He's wrong, because he's about to determine the controls, and we know what the real value was, "Heal," he'll find that much, multiple decrease in the value of "Health" in privatisation. It won't be good for someone, and probably for Mr. former minister because he's so nervous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3367	Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3368	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. I volunteered for the replica, so Mr. Cvetkovic did not have the right to reply, no matter what I mentioned. I responded to his previous exposure. And, to take advantage, since I've already come out here to say, I highly appreciate your understanding of the value of capital. Let's leave it to those who understand each other a little bit better, and in the end, not just from you and me, to talk about the methods and ways in which the value of capital is determined. For your information, any assessment is just a potential framework for a deal. All the textbooks on the value of capital say that the real and fair value is the one agreed on by the two parties in a concrete transaction. The estimate doesn't mean anything. It, as an administrative postulate, was worth erasing and it was supposed to be starting value, and to allow the market to function normally, and there was no hiding information, and there was a game. By the way, I'm not a bit eaten, Mr. Cvetkovic, on the contrary. I'm not nervous. I'm really in the mood to go out for a pay phone and answer your remarks. The public works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3369	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on what was presented in the debate and on the metaphor I used, and that is fat finger syndrome, as we then called it, of course I didn't mean the judges of the Trade Court in Belgrade, not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities. It's simply a metaphor that we at the time called the "fat finger syndrome", which best-cased all the misunderstandings we encountered in an honorable project that is now gaining happiness in its achievement. I could also use another metaphor, or quote one famous poet; he said, "How to stab a clever word in the fat ear." So that's one metaphor, and that's one freedom I can just take advantage of this opportunity. I was talking about the problem of enrolment in the court register and that when I went to court, I couldn't get a copy of the register with different explanations. In the registration department, I was given the information that this disputed case was with the judge, then I went to the judge, the judge tells me then, he says, you know what, that case isn't with me, the case is in the drawer of the President of the Trade Court. That's a big problem. I can't imagine how much that drawer was where all the disputed objects were, I wanted one thing to do, and that's to make an insight into the register, according to the principle of the public, and I have a right to that. That is why this law adopts and implements this principle to the public. As far as the donation is concerned, it's absolutely a question of whether or not we're going to accept that donation, it's just a question, and of course we will, because otherwise we wouldn't be normal people. It is simply abnormal not to take something that belongs to you and will allow you to achieve the whole project, which is a unique registration system. That's exactly the system I'm defending, like I'm defending e-business and all the principles on which it's based. And the whole system, God willing, will work in its entirety. All this reminds me of a movie called "The Gods fell on the subject." I'll remind you what this is about, briefly. Simply, a member of the African tribe fell a bottle of coke on his head and he thought it was the object that the gods sent him. This particular object is what you don't understand today. It's kind of, if that's what you want, a gift from the gods, not religious sects, because what you don't understand, it's not a religious sect, it's a gift you need to take advantage of, and what you don't understand, it's your problem, and it's the problem that's caused by a lot of smart people. That's what we were talking about. What was the principle? Burn on the stake of someone who thinks differently and who you don't understand. Irish model; I don't know if there's anyone who's against the Irish model, that Irish model is called otherwise an Irish economic miracle. It's the success that Ireland has managed to make in a short time, and it will be our role model and we will stand up for it. As for the legal system and the fact that the legal system was built for 30 years, it was data, okay, I don't mind. So, the legal system has been built for 30 years, but since those 30 years, it's safe, 20 would be quite fine, but 10 years when you were in power, it was a disaster, it was a derogation of the legal system and a mockery of the legal system. It is precisely, therefore, that the directives of the European Union and the principle of the public will be met by this law, and thus fall into the water of all the objections involved. As for the fact that a group MP, or one party, burns and burns in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is right, therefore, it is burning and burning, but in an intellectual sense. Together with our coalition partners and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will succeed in intellectually burning and burning, simply, in the best way we will manage to implement everything we have drawn. That intellectual capacity and that power will wipe you off the political scene. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they have washing machines, it's true, someone has, someone doesn't, and if they don't, it's precisely the consequence of what's been going on in those black 10 years. Some young people gathered around a few computers and managed to learn something about the electronic system and to engage in relationships with Europe and the whole world. That's what was your problem, and that's what all your major reforms were about, and that was to stop the Internet, introduce a tax on satellite antennas, introduce a tax to get out of the country, and that was one of the pearls of a closed system, which we now want to make open, driven exclusively by the public principle. How does the Government of the Republic of Serbia work? So every day we get new data. Today, a loan has been signed on the European Roads project, and the loan has provided 120m euros for the Belgrade-Novi Sad-Beška highway, which is one of the most favourable loans ever received, with a grace period of 7 years. So our goal is simply to have safe and safe roads. Negotiations also go hand in hand with regard to the renewal of the New Sad and Nis water systems. It is the interest of our government, it is the interest of our party where we are represented and therefore the citizens of Serbia will not vote for you on 13 June. And why is that? Because they're right at our center of attention and we're doing all this just for them and for our future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3371	You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3372	In accordance with Article 82. I have my own rules of procedure doubting the existence of a quorum, so please the chairman to determine if we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3373	I'm setting a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3374	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please let us determine the quorum. Since 88 MPs are present in the O.R., we can continue our work. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on the Registration of Business Entities and the Proposal for a Law on an Agency for Business Registers. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON THE REGISTRATION OF INDIVIDENTS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Milan Marković, Milko Štimac, Jovan Todorovic, together Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajović, Vjerica Radeta, Milan Stevović, Branislav Blažić, Bozidar Koprivica, Nemanja Sarović, Branislav Stevanovic, Sreto Perić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Branislav Rankić, Ljubomir Kragović, Gordana Gajić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Milorad Mirčić, Momer Marković, Igor Mirović, Milovan Radovanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanovic, Veroljub Arsic, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Čolić, Igor Djordjevic, Igor Bečić, Vojislav Milajić, Jovan Daja, Jovan Glisić, Ivan Radić, Miljko Žrić, Miljko Čivić, Miljko Čević, Imanić, Imanović, Imanović and Krmanović. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on certain amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted to Article 2 of the amendment by the People's MP, Ms Radeta, to the Legislative Committee, which considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3375	Ladies and gentlemen, neither the representative of the Serbian Government nor fellow MPs who support the proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators have convinced us that there are valid reasons for the transfer of business businesses from commercial courts to a business registration agency. The reasons we have heard here in favour of this proposal for a law on the registration of economic operators are not really justified. These reasons are mainly about the mistrust of colleagues who spoke of this proposal, apparently the Serbian government, in judges of trade courts. Unlike you, we in the SRS have confidence in judges and courts, of course I'm talking about the majority of judges who perform honorably and honestly their judicial functions, and we never give the grades casually. We always speak specifically, as we have spoken specifically about the machinations of President of the Trade Court Goran Kljajevic, and about the registration and re-registering of the company "Electrotechna", related to the registration and re-registering of the company Gorica, related to its participation in the famous international affair "Mercedes Benc". We have talked about this publicly, and we do not think that because of the behaviour of the President of the Trade Court, Goran Kljajevic should mark all trade courts and all judges in them who have registered business entities. The question arises, if you don't, and it's obvious you don't trust the judges, who is we, and what is our guarantee that we need to trust people who will be employed by those agencies that you're predicting by this special law? Are you aware, dear colleagues, of how the adoption of this law will affect the work of trade courts? Trade courts in the enforcement process will also have problems with the application of this law and this will certainly lead to a slowdown in the work of trade courts, and this certainly means an increase in costs. That's why we think it would be better and more comprehensive if you spent this money you planned on forming this agency, which, you say, you got as a donation, to spend that money on the equipment of commercial courts and, of course, that the unique central record of economic operators will be in commercial courts, and that these trade courts will be as effective as possible in doing that job. We believe that this way you would help the citizens of Serbia and the judges of trade courts in Serbia. We in the SRS know you don't care, you don't care about the citizens of Serbia, you don't care how much and how much this will cost the citizens of Serbia. You work in another interest, you work to respect the will of some who allegedly give you some donations, and as much as it is to the detriment of Serbian citizens, it certainly doesn't matter to you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have suggested that Article 2 of this Act, in point 3, where certain terms are used in this law, instead of "registrators", use the term "registration judge", which is the SRS's view that registration of economic operators should be guided by competent courts, i.e. in this case in trade courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3376	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3377	With this amendment and a whole series of amendments following the SRS, it consistently represents the view that registration of economic operators should remain in the trade court. In the principle debate, we cited some of the main reasons why we consider it necessary to continue in the trade court. When it comes to this Article 2. The bill, which gives terms and definitions, I only point out to the promoter that when two or three people sitting in the same office want to communicate with each other, on the principle that someone delivers the documentation from the drawer, and he says - a colleague, hand me the registrator. It's that cardboard box containing files, invoices or any other documentation that is subject to some archiving, storage, etc. You see, that box called the registrator is a physical person run by the register, by this definition. The joke aside, the problem is far bigger and more serious. If a meeting is held today with the presidents of trade courts and judges running the register, as many as 99.9% of them would be surprised why this job is moving from a trade court to a brand-new undefined agency. None of the reasons stated by the promoter are literally standing. Most trade courts have their own internal database and are in electronic form running the register on economic operators. In most trade courts, the business of registration, reception of applications and decision-making by application ends in one to two days. So the reason for some economics to pass a law like this, practically, doesn't exist. There's something that the state has to do, which is to link these databases and make all that data available, even in electronic form. There's been a group of ten engineers working on that software program in the Palace of Justice for ten years, and it can't finish that job, because no one cared to do it seriously. A slightly more serious President of the Trade Court, not counting on the one in Novi Sad, because it does not exist, can tell you that three electronic engineers, to get together in one place and work for 10 days, they would create a software program and for, for some, 20,000 to 50,000 euros, all of this could be networked at this first stage, and in the second stage to connect it with the authorities of local self-government that keep records of entrepreneurs. Of course, there is a need to move that record to a trade court, where that unique database is. That's the truth. The second part of this truth is a million and a half euros. Someone took the money, and now someone's objecting to the opposition that they won't vote for this bill. First of all, it's not right, if you've already taken the money, you're complaining to us that we won't kindly and enthusiastically watch you take the money. It would be really crazy to expect that from us. These two laws are systemic failures. The law on registration in the court register or in the register is essentially one procedural law, technical regulation. This regulation cannot be devalued, nor should certain provisions of this law amend the system law, such as the Company Act, even in that part concerning the registration of business entities, companies, where it is explicitly stated that this is done in court. Since we represent this concept, we have found it appropriate to intervene with Article 2 paragraph 3 of Article 2 and to say that this business is not run by a natural person called the registrator, but by a registrator judge, and as determined by that judge, this is prescribed by the Law on Registrar and the Law on Judges. Of course, with other amendments, we're going to complete a picture of you both around the Internet and about these other things, how these data can be made truly available to the largest number of interested persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3378	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during the afternoon debate, I have highlighted two groups of issues that are being addressed by this law and which are indeed making progress in relation to the current situation. One group refers to the registration procedure, as the current Law on the registration procedure in the court register and the Registration Regulation are presented as anachrons, as complicated. The proposed law on the registration of economic operators removes all these problems. The second group of questions concerns the authority responsible for the entry. We felt that trade courts, because registration was carried out in various courts, had no uniform registration practice and, mainly, the problems were caused by a lack of respect for the order laid down in the law, which means that the registration procedure had not been carried out after the applications had been received. We believe that the judges of the trade courts are of quality, that the judges of the trade courts are, in a way, real and have the knowledge that they are solving the problem. However, all who have so far had proceedings before trade courts know that so many cases in these trade courts, so many judges of trade courts are buried in cases, so the lack of judges to solve these cases was a problem in the urgency of resolving cases that arrived in trade courts. The aim of the establishment of an agency for business registers is to disband trade courts, to concentrate judges of trade courts on solving objects in scale, to judge, and to move these transactions to one body that will not be burdened with other affairs but by registering business entities. The issue of the current government's trust in the judiciary is mentioned. That this trust exists, this government and the Department of Justice have proved by submitting amendments to the law in the area of justice, which essentially changes the position of the judiciary and determines its independence, so that all these objections, that this government has one illogical relationship and a non-confidential relationship with the judiciary, do not stand. However, during the discussion, by a parliamentary group that opposes this law, we heard different opinions. Some have pointed out that they advocate that registration of economic operators continues to be conducted in trade courts, while we have heard the opinions of several MPs that this should be done at the Bureau of Statistics, so that all of this is a misunderstanding with the MPs - what is the right position of the parliamentary group, whether to retain the existing situation, which is anachronous, which is complicated, which is rejected by investors, or to move it into some statistical office? All of these objections to the proposed laws and this contradiction with this parliamentary group are more indicating that all these disputes are being led by the presidential campaign, not by the quality of the law, and it is doubtless that the law on the Agency for Business Registers represents a better and solves this problem that we faced in the previous period. So this law and the Agency for Business Registers tends to dissipate courts, leave judges with the possibility of solving in scale, to judge, without dealing with registration problems, which can work quality and successfully, and bodies such as the Agency for Business Registers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3380	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS today, I have mentioned in principle all the laws and regulations governing this legal problem in a unique way, therefore, the problem of registration of economic operators. I was talking about four laws and one regulation. Please don't make a mistake. The SRS is to carry out an adequate codification of these regulations. That's one. Two, we are not in favour of the local jurisdiction, or the actual jurisdiction being exercised through the agency, but in the course of trade courts. Third, there's no dilemma that we're talking about statistical authorities being able to run this legal business. But you've received the amendments proposed by the SRS and we remain decident in the fact that trade courts should deal with this problem. Therefore, do not mix the parallel pulled by counterpart Zoran Krasic and who said – according to what the statistical institutions are doing, they could also do what your agencies are doing. So that's the fundamental difference. About these three important factors you have to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3382	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here, the word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3383	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as has already been said, the SRS advocates that this business is run by trade courts, because they are the only and qualified to lead it. We are witnessing that despite this qualification, in addition to the rigorousity that trade courts have when issuing a decision on the establishment of a legal entity, there are many legal entities for which tax inspectors and other tax authorities cannot find their addresses or owners. And imagine only if it were done online, as suggested by these amendments and additions to the law, which would all be possible to abuse the provisions of a law like this. Furthermore, there have often been stories here from some of the ruling majority that it takes a single register, that it should be known at least through the Internet that the company is dealing with. Well, gentlemen, you already have that. One who is a little bit understood in this procedure should know that for each legal person, a legal number is issued by the Republic Bureau of Statistics; that it is in the home number, and through that form, which is obtained that one company could be entered in any register, the code of activity – who owns the company, what is the act of establishment, what is the company statute, what is the company's rules on the operation of the company, etc. So the only thing that's going to create a proponent of this law is an even greater possibility of someone misusing a legal person with limited responsibility. We will see in a later debate how many such persons there are already under the existing law, which is much more rigorous than this one is suggested. So there will be a greater possibility of abuse. That's the problem with this law. Otherwise, on that registration of business entities, as data can be obtained, you already have it all in the Republic Bureau of Statistics.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3384	Mr. Vucicevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 12 years ago I heard Margaret Thatcher tell her MPs - honored gentlemen, in this House this year, we have a difficult task waiting for us this year, in this House, to pass two laws. That, dear gentlemen, is a difficult task in a country governed by law, in a country where there is a tradition of parliamentaryism. However, in a country that is in transition, where economic chaos, one of the first, in terms of corruption, is inevitably changing laws, it is inevitable to pass system laws. Of course, and this now, when you inherit such a thing, to lay the foundation of a good country, means you have to change the system laws and start from the ground up. The government has decided to pass these very system laws, that the chaos that governs Serbia's economic market, to bring corruption at this level, to its system laws. This may seem easy, simple to some, but it is really difficult in the economic situation as it is with the habits we have acquired over the past 50 years. As for the position and opposition, there is a fight between the position and the opposition in all parliaments. The position is passed by law, and the opposition criticises the law. (Glasses – about the adjudication. ) Of course, about the amendment, about the amendments. Of course, we too had the opportunity to listen to how today, all day long, this law was criticised and that one of the main opposition parties, believing that it would fix the law, had put in the most amendments. All that would be good if there was a good intention to really fix the law. They say it's the most valuable parliamentary group, and by the number of amendments it would seem, but there's only one problem here: here, 13 amendments with absolutely the same explanation. This means that I would not go out after each amendment, that Article 5 should be deleted, and this is the case – the establishment of an agency for business registers would lead to unwarranted expenditure from the budget, and all business management tasks of the economic register can be carried out by the competent authorities of local self-government units, with central records at the republican level. And it's nice when you print. And, here for Amendment 6, the same argument; for Amendment 8. the same argument; for the 9th same argument; for the 10th and all the same reasoning. And, uh, give it to the MPs so nicely. The MPs, they come out, they talk, and you say you have a good intention, according to the taxpayers, towards the citizens of Serbia and towards this parliament. Unfortunately, you've taken this parliament all day long, you've taken taxpayers' money and in some way wanted to deceive Serbian citizens, and you've shown that you don't care about correctness and improvement, but rather about the naked government. If this is a pre-election campaign for you in parliament, then that election campaign is bad for you, and I think you should really use this speaker to improve the laws, to make a constructive contribution, not to deceive Serbian citizens in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3386	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, I apologize. The word has an authorised representative. Here you go. It's not according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Glasses – replica.]] Here you go. Mr. Krasic, let me tell you, you've come to the amendment, you'll get your word after, you haven't answered the Rules of Procedure. They don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3387	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I have your attention? I hope it will be interesting to hear something from the promoters, since today I have given some drearyness to this debate, and most of some MPs have not been present. I'd just like a piece of it to repeat it. In the principle debate, there were a lot of discussions that, fortunately, had nothing to do with what was the subject of the debate. I'll start in some order. The largest mention was 1.4m euros, and this is the government's biggest goal of why it proposes the law. I think that there are enough elements in the explanation that indicate why this law should be passed, and 1.4m euros is something that no one would miss if they had the opportunity to take care of one area to the end. These million and four hundred thousand euros are scheduled for start of work for software, hardware and all costs related to the start of work, while later financing of the agency's work would go from a fee obtained by registering business entities. A lot has been mentioned about the assessment of why not take the example of Germany. None of us in the government, on the side of the promoter, intended to give an assessment of the system used in Germany. What was mentioned as the example of Germany is in the European Commission's report, which points out that countries with more registers, such as Germany, cannot be an example of best practice and cannot fully reflect the recommendations of the first European directive. Today, only in a small number of states face registration of economic operators in courts. When it comes to the World Bank's report, we can see that this is happening in some African countries, which are primarily under the influence of French legislation, and from EU countries it is France, Germany and Austria, with a previous assessment that is highlighted here. The world study, which dealt with this issue, also says – of the total number of 90 countries, which have been analysed in terms of the registration of economic operators, in just 30% of us face the practice of registering in courts, while in 70% of the countries this has been resolved through special registers. And there's something I'd like to say about this story that's about Amendment 2 and where there's a lot of proposings, and it's actually going through all the other proposals. It's a principled question. There is a need to speed up registration and to ensure that the Ministry of Business monitors whether registration is carried out within the specified and short deadlines. If registration were to remain in the jurisdiction of the courts, in which case the Ministry of Economy, and thus the Government, could not exercise any control. The principle of division of power in the executive power would be compromised, where the executive authority would have no right to oversee the executive power. In the end, and this will be very useful for the continuation of tomorrow's debate, I want to point out here in a very simple way, what are the advantages and disadvantages of the existing system of registering inmates and what brings us as an advantage to the new law. So, regulation of this issue is foreseen in several legislative and sublegal acts, while the proposal for a new law provides and regulates the registration process of all economic operators. The relevant regulations do not provide for a single database, but rather registration of economic operators performs 18 trade courts and 161 municipalities independently. The new proposal forms the register as a unique, central database of all economic operators. An existing solution does not predict an electronic database, so the data is hard to access. The proposal for a new law provides for a register as an electronic database allowing unique and quick access for registration and insight into registered data. According to the existing legal solution, there is no compliance with EU directives on the data to be registered. The new bill is currently in line with EU directives. The existing laws do not provide for an insight into the documentation on the basis of which registration and only proof have been made, this can only be done with proof of legal interest. The new bill provides that the register is a public database, so all persons can look into the documentation and data without proving legal interest. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: "Time"? It's the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3388	The Proposer has no restrictions on the interpretation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3389	The existing, applicable laws predict that a procedural and material provision is mixed. The bill contains only procedural provisions. The relevant laws provide for the contradiction of the proceedings in the registration procedure, the judge shall determine the facts and examine the accuracy of the data contained in the application, which is unnecessary and complicated and slows the registration procedure. The new proposal envisions checking exclusively formal conditions for registration. The registry shall not have the right to examine the accuracy of the data and the authenticity of the documentation contained in the application, which shall make it as simple as possible and speed up the registration. The existing legal solutions do not foresee, but they create and lead to inequality of practices and conditions for registration. The new law accurately defines the conditions for registration, ensuring uniformity of practice. It is also not irrelevant to state that the existing rules of registration of economic operators last 71 days, while the new law provides for this to end within five days, and if the registrar does not act within a given time limit, registration will be deemed to have been carried out. What I'd like to point out is what a new legal solution is and what we don't have at this point in our legislation, it's that a maximum amount of compensation is prescribed, thus legally guaranteeing cheap registration. The status "inactive" is introduced, the status "deleted" is introduced and the name is reserved. In the end, let me just say something about the agency itself and the establishment of the agency. We've really had a flood of agencies, but it's not what they've been doing these days that's been an attack on the agencies, it's the process of setting them up. The problem was that many agencies were founded by a government regulation, not by law. This agency is being set up legally and its need is quite unequivocal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-17-0.u3390	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. I am finishing today's work. Tomorrow's the 10.00 p.m. session.
