ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7587	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 128 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Velimir Stanojevic and Ksenija Milivojevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'm speaking to you in my Rules of Procedure, I think it's even the whole of the Rules of Procedure, but I've been looking for this part of the public work, from Articles 169 to 173. Namely, I am asking you and the Secretary of the Assembly to protect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What we have seen today in a number of daily newspapers does not correspond to the truth and has nothing to do with life, has nothing to do with the law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we must bring to this Assembly, because it is the most important state institution. We'll get it. Of course we're going to talk about these two controversial members, but we have to protect this institution, because whoever destroys this institution in those texts is destroying the state, national sovereignty. Today I'm also the victim of a total lie written in the public voice list. This is the way I'm asking for those papers to apologize to me, because it's written that I told some young gentleman about the blanket and the sweatpants he wore, which is absolutely untrue. So I didn't speak a single word to him, and he did wear an unrespectable hoodie and a sweatpants and not a professional backpack, like the photographers wear, but a simple big black backpack on his back. It's got nothing to do with the ironing suit, which is still written in the text, or how the irons work in a special suit, so photojournalists have to do. Gentlemen, photojournalists and journalists can see how the Assembly is arranged in the countries of our environment, and so can the conversation. First of all, I ask that all media representatives who have accreditation and come here, whether they are photographers, journalists, cameramen, print out and share this section of the Rules of Procedure, from Members 169 to 173 are currently valid, to get acquainted with this and to continue to anticipate how these members are treated and treated by the MPs. And you, Mr. President, are today the victim of that one word "aluvo" with that photograph that is extremely rude. You know how and why you did it. It's an entirely tenently written text. Therefore, please, if this continues, this Assembly will become completely pointless, and we know that a state in which there is no National Assembly has no democracy, but a dictatorship, whose, and so, for God's sake, we won't be able to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7589	I owe it to you, whenever there's an injury to the Rules of Procedure, to make an explanation in the same Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of, in no way, being president of the Assembly, nor as someone representing the Assembly, and giving orders to the secretary, trying to make sure that the journalists, who are also victims of those people who are persistently paying for the campaign against the National Assembly, are being initiated. All journalists from the congregation know very well how the congregation works. This is a meeting of the Assembly in which it was additionally offered to educate journalists and the main and responsible editors were invited to get acquainted with the programme, to find out how the Assembly works. So there's no need to appeal to the Rules of Procedure. There are a whole series of funds that, instead of being increased, are invested in educating journalists, because we expect journalists to inform the timely public. On the other hand, there is no reason in any way to defend itself through court proceedings, because of the insults and the incredible amount of lies that existed in the media these days, the Assembly defends itself. The way the Assembly defends itself is the way I congratulate you, which is that you have been the only institution in Serbia in the past months that has saved money, and has done twice as much as any call for the first six months. It speaks of your ability and responsibility to the citizens. Of course, you know at any moment that you are representatives of the citizens, that you are in direct contact with the citizens and, of course, that you, I, as one of the MPs, have to accept ourselves to be victims, because this campaign that was paid by the people who earned the money, because there was no law and no assembly controlled them, is actually a campaign against the citizens. Even though the campaign keeps making sure that it is kept saying that it is done on behalf of the Serbian citizens and, of course, when in the name of Serbian citizens, when data is falsified, when false accounts are carried out and it turns out that MPs who are certainly the poorest part of each government should be accused of something, then there is no defence against it, except for the one you have demonstrated so far, and that is to be responsible for what the state is and certainly that people who can pay the media are trying to bring down the state, but it is quite certain that you will not allow it, and there is no reason for the President of the Assembly and the secretary to take any additional measures. It's enough of what you're doing. I hope you're satisfied with the explanation in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of the People's MP in order to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Sulejman Spaha, elected from the Serbian Radical Party's election list – Dr Vojislav Seselj. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Suleiman Spaha. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask him to join us in our work. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the PARICAL PROCEDURE (the follow-up in particular) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started a debate on the amendment to Article 63, which was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović and Miodrag Djidić. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I'd like to speak with you for a moment. At the same time, I remind the members of the Legislative Committee that they have a session at 11.30 p.m. in a small hall. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7590	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of 66, regulate cases where a judge cannot perform his duty, or when he must be expelled from trial. It is provided for in point 6 that it may not exercise its duty to participate in the same case in the intermediation procedure, in the decision of a lower court or of another authority or in the conclusion of a judicial settlement, and it is obtained in the case. Our amendment to the DS consists of, instead of saying, "in the decision of a lower court or of another body", saying: "in proceedings before a lower court or other body". I think, Mr. Minister, there is no reason why this amendment should not be accepted, because the position of the DS is that, if any judge has participated in the proceedings before a lower court in any way, he cannot make a decision, or make a decision before a senior court in the appeal proceedings. In theory, he may have tried for two years longer than the judge who made the decision. I think there are perfectly reasonable reasons for the amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7591	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I personally think that this amendment really defines more precisely the possibility of disfellowshipping the judge in a certain procedure and effectively prevents one possibility, as counterpart Pajovic said. So, in the event that a judge is elected to a higher court and under such circumstances, a situation appears to judge the case in which he was tried in the first degree. Given that, as stated in Article 66, such an option is not envisaged, I think this amendment regulates the issue more precisely and foresees such an option. In that sense, I think it would be good to support and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7593	The word has the minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7594	I wasn't at the beginning of the board, but I think there's room to accept this amendment. I'll give an explanation, because it's been a little narrowed down here because of those little dishes on the inside, where the problems arise, so it's said, you can't, and neither can you, because you've been down there and there's a problem. Otherwise, it doesn't change much about things in principle, but I say there's a slightly wider number of faces that would have been disabled and that was the reason. In principle, I agree, the government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7595	This amendment has become an integral part of the law. Right? No, it's not. I draw attention to the Committee on Justice and Administration that, having adopted the amendment, it is necessary for the Committee to establish and accept it, in order to become an integral part of the law, otherwise it will be voted on. Please take care of that. Parliamentarians Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted together to the 66th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7596	The amendment of the DS parliamentary group also refers to Article 66, i.e. to the exclusion of a judge who cannot perform a judicial duty, i.e. the reasons. We suggest adding a new point 8 to Article 66, which reads: "if the party, its legal representative or pronoun was in a working or business relationship or in such a relationship was his spouse or out-of-marriage friend, present or former or related to the blood in the first line." Of course, this point 8) is proposed because we believe that it would contribute to the establishment of an impartial judiciary and we think it is necessary for these persons to be covered by exclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7597	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted to the 67th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7598	The amendment to Article 67(1) refers to the change in number 7, to place number 8, since we have asked for a new point 8 to be introduced here, and then, accordingly, in Article 67, we need to change that part where points 1 to 7 is, we suggest that it be from points 1 to 8, of course, if the previous amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7599	Is there anyone else under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta. The proposer's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee did not accept this amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7600	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, at the beginning of this session, there was an unprecedented violation of the basic democratic principles by the president of the assembly and the assembly majority, when the violation of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure prevented the MPs from talking about the violation of the constitution by Boris Tadic at the post of Serbian President. For this reason, the MPs of the SRS left the Assembly for about 40 minutes, and it is simply amazing that in those 40 minutes you managed to complete the principle debate on the draft law on litigation and on the draft law on the executive procedure. First, it was unacceptable for these two laws to be united, to shorten the time for the MPs to talk about these proposals, not only for the reasons of very extensive material, but also for the fact that these are extremely significant laws, that these laws depend on both Serbia's legal system and that these laws depend on finally reviving the rule of law. Members of the SRS are thus prevented from speaking in the principle of these laws, because our proposal is not accepted to make, fellow dear, pause, so that we can consult in our parliamentary group what we are going to do about the already established agenda, and because of the already mentioned violations of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and other democratic principles in this House and therefore through the amendments that we have submitted, through the explanation, the interpretation of the amendments, with much less time we try to convince Mr. Minister and the parliamentary majority to accept our amendments, because they are both well-intentioned and indeed with the aim of correcting the text of the law. When it comes to the Law of Prosecution, I must stress one general point that the Law on the Prosecution, which is applied, which is a positive legal regulation, is indeed a very good one, even an excellent law, and that is an undivided opinion in professional circles. There's a lot of lawyers here, and I'm absolutely convinced they're thinking the same thing. That's what most judges think, and we know that it was necessary to have an existing law with so-called. The federal level, I'll say, translates to a republican level, but that was no reason to pass a whole new law. I accept and believe in the good intentions of Minister Stojkovic to achieve greater efficiency by changing the rules and to improve the situation in the judiciary. This bill does not make it possible, and it will not happen to you. The ministry must take far more radical steps to improve the situation in the judiciary. Of course, the government has to boast that it's doing something, so here in the legislative area, they're proposing laws. However, this Ministry of Justice is indeed, so it seems to me that the largest number of laws have been passed, and Mr Stojkovic, I must say, is the only minister in the Serbian Government who respects the MPs and who sits here neatly with us and communicates on the proposals he represents on behalf of the Government here. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 69 of the Law, with the very intention of increasing efficiency and preventing abuse in court proceedings due to unwarranted delays. The government has proposed in Article 69 that an application for exclusion or exemption is not allowed, which is at all required the exemption of all judges of a court or of all judges who could participate in a procedure already decided, in which there is no legal reason why the exemption is sought. This is certainly fine and this is the good intention of the representatives of the proposings and the promoters not to abuse the procedural right in certain procedures, but then they are totally unnecessary positions 4 and 5, because it is the illegal requirements proposed in these attitudes, and it is simply not possible, nor to make any expense, because it is illegal remedies, precisely in accordance with the first position of Article 69. That's why I'm proposing him, Mr. Minister, and I don't know if we got the government's opinion on our amendments, I didn't get it. I allow you to share it in the forty minutes that we haven't been in the O.R., and if not, then you have time to reconsider this amendment once more, to adopt it on behalf of the better text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7601	Mr. Krasic. I also remind Article 69. The Rules of Procedure say that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda and ask that we stick to it. I'm really gonna have to warn you, and unfortunately, more than that, but I hope there's not gonna be a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7602	Of course there won't be a chance, I'm always talking about amendments. I'm absolutely sure the minister couldn't influence this member of the law, because I know he's got a lot of experience and he can't do this like this. These professors who have dealt with this law have made some mistake by the ministers. Maybe it's a good thing they've made a division of the reasons that cause the exception and the reasons that cause the exclusion. Probably disfellowshipping should mean a mandatory exemption when the reason comes and there are well-listed reasons, and when it comes to the exemption, it would be kind of like a college thing. This is the situation where it is entirely justified to doubt the impartiality of the court, i.e. the judge acting as judge, due to some personal characteristics and some other circumstances or any other connection to a specific case. However, you said the request for exemption could be illegal. In point 1), point 1, the reason is quite well stated, if a general exemption is sought, probably in the copying of points 1, 2 and 3 wherever the exemption stands, the exclusion should also stand. I guess that's what that's about. However, point 2), I am a little expanding this amendment, point 2) will create a confusion, because if, in the first-degree procedure, a request for the exemption of a judge, the president of the court did not accept the request, a first-degree verdict was passed, the district court was suspended, the court was remanded and remanded before the judge. In practice, this interprets, if the request for the exception of that judge is repeated in the retrial, that it is already decided and that it is unlawful. I think there's going to be such an interpretation, and it's not good, because just abolishing if not the first one, then the second termination disqualifies the judge to work on that case again. What is significant for this amendment is that these are still actions when it comes to the assessment of the permit of a law and this should be linked to the President of the Judicial Council. This is where you listed in Section 2. 'They'll drop the judge.' We have a situation where the court appears in the form of an individual judge. The individual judge is in all rights equal to the President of the Judicial Council. I think it would be more precise to accept what we have stated in this amendment – the president of the council, and then generically means judge individual. They're evenly right when it comes to managing litigation. This judge doesn't mean anything. What is in paragraphs 4 and 5 is a situation that is not legally possible. If a judge is authorised to reject an unauthorised request and there is no room for appeal against that solution, then there is no possibility that a harmful consequence may occur on the contrary because of what has been decided. These are such simple legal cases, and as soon as he looks at the request for an exemption, if he asks for the exemption of all judges, if this third situation is, if the request is not justified, there is no reason. These are simple things that the judge solves at that moment. There's no need to get a request like this that's obviously not allowed to delay the debate. This formulation is repeated to you in one or two more places. I know what was the motive to sort this out, to prevent illegal requests, to repeat demands that apparently aim to abuse the procedural powers of parties in the process. At least two months, the debate is delayed. With the first three positions you've solved this situation, so they're 4. and the 5th attitude completely unnecessary. If the situation of the 4th and 5th positions arises, be sure that the judge was incompetent, that he deliberately delayed not to resolve the request, and he was involved in causing the damage. It's impossible for someone who submits a legitimate request to be held accountable. The party cannot suffer the adverse consequences of the application of the rights permitted by the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7603	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 69 is directly contrary to Article 22(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is laid down in Article 22(2), everyone is guaranteed the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on his right and on a law based on interest. The party that asked for the judge's exception, she's asking for her known reasons. These reasons can be established, and in the proposal for this law in article 69, it says no special appeal is allowed. There cannot be a Law on a judicial procedure in direct contrast to the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I believe that this part should intervene and correct this text, because otherwise, there will be a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7605	Thank you. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7606	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, on behalf of Article 73. The draft law on litigation of amendments was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic, and the amendment requires that the word "participation" be deleted. In fact, to anyone who deals first or they did, or once passed by the court, it is clear that we have nothing called a litigation court, nor according to the Constitution, nor by law, nor by the Law of Order of the Courts, are mentioned in litigation courts anywhere. There's no litigation and no outside court. We have municipal courts, county, trade, I guess we'll get appeals in 2007, but there's no litigation court. I expect the minister to show little understanding. I don't think this amendment should be controversial, that it'll just fix this law, because the word "participation" here doesn't have to stand. It is sufficient to say – the court may, it is known that it is a court that applies litigation, regardless of whether it is from a districtal, first-degree court, about any court, whether it is a trade or any court, but when a court is said, it is known what is thought. And when it comes to litigation, then there's a category that doesn't exist either in the Constitution or in the Law on Court Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7607	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7608	There's a court of law here. We have a little problem. In this article, the only exception is that something that is like a party can appear and does not have legal personality status. If they did not leave a court-law, they would be in a position to, having other provisions that say that a trade court is subject to the Law on litigation, then a trade court could also act as a regular court to accept persons who do not have legal status, which is excluded by looking at the jurisdiction of the trade court. That is why it was entered to mark an exception that could not be applied to a trade court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7609	Please, you've been misread by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7610	I repeat, Mr. Minister, I don't doubt your good intentions, but when you say a litigation court, you can't think, or by interpreting it, you can't come to an example. the municipal court or the district court, and so to exclude from the application of the trade court applying the litigation procedure. In that case, the trade court is also a litigation court. Any court applying the Law on litigation can be called a litigation court. If that's what you wanted, then you needed some provisions and a court-ordered law to arrange it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7611	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7612	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of counterpart Natasha Jovanovic to article 73. The draft law on litigation is the best evidence of how many MPs of the SRS Group are seriously doing this job and how much we truly care that, as far as possible formally, we technically edit the proposals we receive from the Serbian government. Indeed, the explanation of counterpart Sarovic is completely in place and I cannot accept the explanation Mr Stojkovic tried to justify this term, because it is indeed the fact that the litigation court does not figure in our legal order. Speaking of courts, it would be much better if the government of Serbia, as a legislator of this law as well as other judicial laws, since we are constantly talking about intensity towards Europe and European integration, should also have seen the fact that there is one intensities in Europe when it comes to the organisation of courts and that it would really be the only and best solution for us to organise our courts so that we have basic courts, appeals courts and Supreme Court only in exceptional cases. That's what the SRS has been pushing for since its founding, and it's written in our program. Indeed, every time we talk about judicial regulations, we stress the need for such an organisation of courts, because then we wouldn't be in a situation to talk jargonically about litigation courts or I don't know what kind of things still exist right now or don't exist, or just use terms in Serbia, and I really appeal to a proposing representative to understand our well-meaningness to erase this word. It's just that counterpart Natasa Jovanovic wanted to help keep this text of the law in line with the regulations, or the Constitution, on which it must be based, and not to introduce through this law the notion of courts that do not exist in the Law on the Organisation of Courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7613	Here's a word from the People's MP Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7614	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this amendment had its reasons. The term - litigation court is not only good because of this and not in the first place, which is not the type of institution in our judicial system, but because it is not known what is meant. If you think about all the cases in which the litigation is applied, then the word "judgment" is enough. If the case is to be ruled out before the Trade Courts, then it should stand - the court of general jurisdiction, which applies the litigation procedure. You don't know what you're thinking. It will not be known until one day the law is applied. It's a language editorial. It's about the sauce that happens to everyone when they live longer with one text, even those who have prepared this law, and I think that an effort should be made to find a formula that will be clear and understandable to everyone. Either - the court of general jurisdiction in a litigation procedure, or - a court, and by no means - a litigation court. It may not be too late for the board to make the necessary amendment, or for the government to do so, or for it to be left to the language directory, but it needs to be intervened so that the law is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7615	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 84. Law on litigation. Namely, the Serbian Radical Party believes it is very important to resolve this important matter in the Serbian state's legal system, but we believe that certain provisions in this law are not good, especially that the group that did this bill did not show its legal maximum, or even optimal, that this would be regulated in a legally good way. Surely this area needs to be regulated, it is adapted to the citizens of Serbia, or to the parties that appear in this process. I, too, must share the opinion of my distinguished colleague, Verica Radeta, who said that Minister Stojkovic is one of the few ministers from this government who respects the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and defends the government's proposals to this high house. My amendment concerns Article 84(2). Law on litigation. I suggested that Article 2 of this law be deleted, which says 'the party must be represented by a lawyer in the audit procedure and a request for protection of legality'. The audit and application for the protection of legality are extraordinary legal medicines, which the party can use, and the SRS, with a lot of respected colleagues of lawyers and lawyers, who are involved in this work and who have proven themselves and affirmed as such in their profession, consider it to be a favoured law enforcement profession, although we in our parliamentary group have four or five excellent, prominent lawyers, who think it is not good, since a large number of parties that appear in the litigation process are not in a position to pay high costs which, in the conduct of the proceedings, the party may have. There's one absurd here. The bill promoter didn't say if it was a party that's legal or physical, so it should be represented by lawyers. So it's not clearly defined. So, by interpreting this position of the law, we believe that both for a legal person and for a natural person, when representing and solving extraordinary legal remedies, the party should represent a lawyer, and in practice it may also be a person who may be a retired lawyer, or a university professor at law school, and if he appears as a party he will not be able to represent his case in this case without hiring a lawyer. We don't think that's all right, that it's not rational, and I hope that after I leave the House the Minister of Justice will come out and say that this amendment is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7617	One moment, first you, Moma Markovic, then Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed in the past few months that even before what you call an international court, and we call a political court, in front of that international tribunal in The Hague, there has been a heated struggle over the matter of lawyers, on the matter of MPs. Namely, Slobodan Milosevic has been given the right to defend himself, as SRS President Prof. Vojislav Seselj insisted on this right, which is in addition to the rest in the Charter of the United Nations, to defend himself and defend himself, I think it is illogical for the 2nd position in this article to remain. National MP Mr. Sreto Peric submitted an amendment to help the ministry as well as judges tomorrow, when we adopt this law, to make it easier and simpler for them to do their job. The ministry needs to pass quality law, and judges need to follow that law. Item 1 in Article 84 says "party can take action in the process personally or through the power of attorney", and point 2. "the party must be represented by a lawyer in the audit procedure and a request for the protection of legality". Why do we even allow the possibility in this law to be denied someone's rights and to be imposed on them by a lawyer? What happens if a neighbor sues a lawyer? Will that lawyer, respecting the position of the 2nd member, have to take a lawyer and pay him. Why are we favoring this law profession? I don't have anything against lawyers, on the contrary, a lot of lawyers are my personal and home friends, but I don't think there's a chance in the law that someone should be forced to do something that they might do for their defense and for the final outcome of the case being conducted in court. I therefore believe that this amendment and Article 2 of this Article should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7619	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this proposal were to be adopted, there would be discrimination. This discrimination is being looked at, counterpart Markovic reminded MPs, and I am convinced that most MPs or everyone knows well and can easily conclude, which is not to be explained much. It's one known fact, we'll have such a situation that the professor of law school who wrote dozens of textbooks from procedural law, or any other branch of law will not be able, unless he's a lawyer, to file a review, to protect his rights and his interests. It will also happen, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the judge who was the judge of the municipal, county and supreme court and retired won't be able to submit an audit, even though he solved thousands and thousands of complaints, made thousands and thousands of judgments, solved thousands and thousands of audits, would not have the right by this member to submit an audit to protect his rights. That's absolutely illegal. The current Law on a litigation procedure in Article 90(4) provides that the court may provide for an ignorant party, and if it notices and finds that it is represented by an unsupervised person, to draw attention and indicate that it will take the power of attorney to better represent its interests. So it's party disposition, it's a party issue and the party in the litigation process decides on it. If the proxies are applied to a party representing adverse consequences, the party shall be entitled to compensation for damages. On the other hand, Article 13 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised that all citizens are equal before the law and the Constitution regardless of religious, national, social, political membership and their own education. Therefore, if this bill is adopted, we will not have harmony in the litigation process. We're going to have a break-in and such a very modest and good litigation procedure, but it's not about that. There are a number of other problems that I will later have as part of the other amendments a chance to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7621	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7622	The problem of Article 84(2) is that he could formally survive this way because he regulates the status of MPs, but the danger of attitude 2 is viewed, above all, in what is his logical relationship, which is the provision of Article 405(2). The audit is illegal if the audit has been made public by a person who is not a lawyer. Then we come up with an interpretation of the concept of what it means to make a statement. The appeal, the review, shall be declared by the party. If a lawyer comes forward, he appears as the party's attorney, under the authority of the party, and because of this member, we are making a connection with Article 84(2) where you have defined who may be a representative, but so you have put the definition of representatives when it comes to reviewing and requesting the protection of legality that one interpretation comes to the conclusion that you have excluded the party. A party's ability is recognised. The only party that has no party capacity must be represented by a legal representative. A party that has a party's ability can take over all actions in a litigation procedure on its own, and if it considers that these actions can be better done by the proxies, it can be authorized by the attorney who will do so. I'm merely pointing out that Article 84(2) and the member concerning the authorisation of an audit make a logical whole and interpreting this and this other member comes to the conclusion that you have violated one of the principles that you do not allow the party to have a party's ability. You recognize her party's ability to appeal, and when it comes to review, you don't admit her. As legislators, we have no right to deny the prosecutor and the accused party's ability. We have no right to deny him the right to declare his own audit, the appeal said. He endures in his own name and for his own account. This way, these two members suggest that a lawyer must appear on the matter of revision and application for protection of legality. What does that mean? If as a prosecutor I want to make an audit, I can't do it myself, and I'm a party with a party's ability, but I'm looking for a lawyer. That would mean someone putting on a lawyer's seal. I think you're forming one caste at the Supreme Court, and he'll probably, in all innovations in terms of the court's regulation law, be the only court to consider extraordinary legal remedies and then be made one caste of lawyers and will, in fact, be the only one empowered to submit audits with a slight review of some of the judges of the low-level courts. So if you want your review to pass in the Supreme Court, talk to that lawyer and that lawyer, because he's a minor licensed audit attorney. That's how this works. So, I can't legally challenge you directly the unconstitutional nature of Article 84(2), but I can prove to you that you have violated the principle of party ability. You don't practically recognise the prosecutor and the defendant's ability to use an emergency legal remedy when it comes to being able to use an emergency remedy. This congregation is not authorized to do so. He can't do something like that. We can prescribe who will be the power of attorney, but we cannot deny the right of the party to use it by means of legal means. We can't do that especially when it comes to the D.A.'s office. What if he started the procedure himself, I wrote the lawsuit, he's running the procedure himself. Now that he's audited, we're making him have to have a power of attorney, and we're not authorized to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7623	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7624	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this position 2 would suit me as a lawyer, but it does not fit the procedural and legal procedure and the legal science, as the other powers of attorneys are directly discriminated against. I don't understand how one of them is. The former minister, a prominent judge, a lawyer, who has submitted many audits and a request for protection of legality, is unable to represent the party. I claim that this better quality review, as an emergency legal remedy, as well as a request for renewal, will be better than 70% of lawyers. Citizens cannot be brought into an unequal position, especially when it comes to such a crucial matter and such a crucial law. That's why I'm saying and I guarantee this would be an anti-constitutional norm. I'm not attacking Mr. Minister, because I know he didn't write it, but I'm attacking those who planted this on him, professors who didn't consult practice. I think this amendment is good and I'm asking the government to adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7625	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this amendment, which has been tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, counterpart Sreto Peric, should be accepted. It should be accepted, because such a hard-core view of the ministry calls into question the honesty of the legislator of this law. It raises the question, because if this controversial member of Article 84(2) is read, it appears that some lawyer lobby insisted that this remain in the law. Mr. Minister, you're leaving room for doubt. Why? We are witnessing that certain lobbys have an impact on the government of the Republic of Serbia. One decision, i.e. by amending and supplementing certain laws on sales tax, say, you freed doctors from fiscalization, you freed dentists, you freed lawyers, Mr. Minister. Now you're also pushing parties in a dispute to use legal services. The question arises, when it comes to that legal person, as it says here in the explanation, do you, Mr. Minister, know how much money it takes for some party in the dispute to begin to exercise its right, such as. The most ordinary tax to be paid to a trade court to start this dispute? Why do some legal entities hire several lawyers to represent them in these disputes, because they are cheaper than they are paying for legal services, or for you, those lawyers should serve those legal persons as just a front for writing a rule on the internal arrangements of that legal person? Furthermore, if you remain in this position and do not accept this amendment, you deny the right to those parties in a dispute which, because of your financial situation, are unable to hire a lawyer. You have to take care of all this because everyone has the right to judicial protection, whether they're poor or rich. Such a member of the law shall be provided with that possibility only to those who have the money. For the absurd to be greater, Mr. Minister, someone can sue your Ministry tomorrow, he's right. Who's going to represent the Ministry?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7627	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7628	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we in the SRS are really trying to convince you that this amendment should be accepted for a number of reasons. I personally have been offered a solution simply amazing - that the party must be represented by a lawyer in the audit procedure and by a request for protection of legality. I believe in your good intentions, I was already saying that you want the situation in the judiciary to be fixed, to achieve the efficiency of the courts, but you can't do it with these restrictive provisions of the law. You know well, all citizens of Serbia know well about the existence of a band between lawyers and judges. Of course, I want to point out that I don't think about all the lawyers or all the judges. On the contrary, I think there's a smaller group of lawyers and a smaller group of judges who are harassing the courts, which is why the entire judiciary is in a bad mood. I think that the Ministry and this Assembly should certainly deal with specific problems and, first of all, resolve such problems by removing them from both the law and the judiciary. This should be our task, not that we are trying to achieve efficiency by putting certain categories of Serbian citizens in a situation that, in fact, they cannot participate in a court procedure, although they have party capacity, because they do not have monetary capacity. Lawyer services are not cheap, and there are many citizens of Serbia who unfortunately cannot pay even those very high court fees. You remember well, when we talked about court fees, the MPs of the SRS claimed that we couldn't keep everything missing in the budget to fill in by dragging our hands into our citizens' pockets. Many citizens, unfortunately, cannot participate in certain procedures they really need because they do not have the means to pay drastically high taxes. In addition to the court fees, we now oblige citizens to pay lawyers where they really don't have to, that is, the free choice of every citizen or legal person to hire a graduate lawyer, if he's a lawyer himself or if he's in a legal person, as he stands in this explanation of the amendment, that he can have a dozen or dozens of graduate lawyers in a legal person and then that legal person has to hire someone who's a lawyer, and in fact he already has more lawyers, they're just not in the bar. There is indeed a dangerous fear that in this way we will further deepen this gap, create an even greater impatience between groups, counterpart Krasic spoke - casta. It really is in courts and in law chambers. We don't have that right. On the contrary, I think we must be you, the first to protect Serbia's legal system. The MPs of the SRS do. Of course, now we can only do it through the amendments, because, eventually, we propose a full legislative solution, either in this area or in any other area, it would not see the light of day, given that for almost a year we have a single increase in the number of laws in the congregation procedure that, of course, will probably never come on the agenda. Mr. Minister, here I am the fifth or sixth from our parliamentary group trying to convince you. Believe me, the amendment is meaningful. The amendment is aimed not only at improving the law, but at improving the situation in the judiciary. Don't, leaving this provision to Article 2(2), continue to put you in a position, I suppose, completely unconsciously and unwittingly, to have certain lawyers buy a Kajmak from both this law and some other law, and worst of all, to share that Kajmak with certain people in the judiciary. As long as that's the case, the situation in the judiciary won't improve. So please accept this amendment. Let this be one of the first steps towards a better, healthier, more independent, more real judiciary in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7629	The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just briefly refer to the proposal sent by the SRS, which is in relation to Article 84(2). Indeed, that article reads: "The party must be represented by a lawyer in the audit procedure and a request for protection of legality". I fully respect everything my colleagues have said. I fully respect the legislator's intensity and I know what the legislator wanted with this. I'd say one fact, so the law has to be written for everything. So all citizens in front of the law, including these litigators, must be equal. In particular, I'd like to give an example of life. A situation like this may happen, therefore, that our distinguished minister, after so many years of work and profession, retires, has his own need to write a review. How one such minister, such an expert, will feel if he knocks on the door of some law firm. I'd like him to tell me and answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7631	Anyone else want a word? The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7632	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, this is an extremely good amendment, but perhaps a little premature for our society, so at this point I am withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7633	You're withdrawing the amendment? Thank you. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Miodrag Djidic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7634	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, all the amendments submitted by the DS aim to improve this text of the law, and we think there is a lot of inadequacy, but with one single goal of making the law better and making the procedure, and I believe that it was your goal when you proposed the law, it was faster and more effective and with the ultimate goal of getting the parties to a valid verdict as soon as possible. However, I am afraid that this law has a lot of inadequacy and uncertainty and that this goal will not be achieved, but that we will continue to be able to hold on to some disputes for more than 20 years and that some of the disputes that are easy on ordinary debt lasts for a few years. With a bill like this, unfortunately, we won't, I don't think, restore trust in our low-level judiciary, because if we go back to some period, we'll see that the citizens have had a lot of trust in the court, but they don't trust the court today. In order to restore trust, we must make quality laws that will, above all, be in the interests of the parties. As far as the specific amendment is concerned, we have submitted an amendment to Article 84(2), and there we are very different from our colleagues from the SRS, because they explained here that we should delete that attitude. We believe that this attitude is good, it's one newspaper in the law on litigation, and it says, "The party must be represented by a lawyer in the review procedure and a request for protection of legality." We went one step further, so we added a decimal in that attitude and added the following words: "as well as in disputes before trade courts with a value exceeding 2.5 million dinars." So it is our view that in disputes before a trade court whose value exceeds 2.5 million dinars is mandatory representation by lawyers, but why? Because it will make the procedure faster and more efficient, and that should be the intensity of this law and I think it's in the interests of the parties. So whoever is being tried for a value of 2.5 million wants to get to a high-quality verdict as soon as possible and it is certain that if lawyers are present on both sides that they will do the job better and faster than those who are not qualified for the job, because so far they could have been represented by an agent who is not a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7635	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7636	I would like to warn the Minister that you do not accept this amendment by accident, regardless of what they have tried to convince us of something here, but you cannot accept this amendment, because this amendment does not solve the problem. Your problem, the problem of this bill, is in Article 74(1) and it is said: "The party is fully businessable and can take the actions in the process on its own". The action in the process is the declaration of the audit. So, the prosecutor, the defendants, are authorized to take over the shop. The fact that you, or those professors who wrote you the law, made gymnastics with article 84, so they mutilated him like this, which is why we have submitted an amendment to change it, and I suggest that the Ministry of Justice, possibly with the Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee, rephrase this. You lack one provision on who may be the party's power of attorney and what conditions you need to meet, you lack that one provision. You also have a qualified lawyer there, as they say, but you can't have a formulation like this, so before it's added that in front of a trade court, everything that's done has to be done by a lawyer, and where there's a party, where it's a litigator. This amendment further potentiates the denial of one party's litigation capacity. That can't happen, it's forbidden. If the purpose is to prescribe with this law the conditions that need to be met by a person who appears as a power of attorney, then do so in another way. But to tie up, to limit the litigation capacity that is there and that exists with the prosecutor and the defendant, so that you do this, that's not allowed. It can't go through like this. If you need to define, therefore, who can be a power of attorney, then write, but don't commit to reviewing and requesting the protection of legality and representation from a trade court, because there are some things that aren't normal. Take any bank or any big firm that has a big legal service where professors, law doctors, magistrates, former lawyers, maybe there's 20, 30, 50 or 100 people. And this firm can, as a legal person, if it is a defendant, because it has a judicial capacity, and it is represented by a legal representative, or director of a company, to give authority to represent someone else and if a review is needed now, and they say, if you go to a commercial court, take the lawyer immediately. Please, why would a firm with 100 graduate lawyers need another lawyer? You know what, don't make this special caste of a lawyer's lobby, 'cause you can provoke us a little bit, so let's talk about some more stuff. If you go to the SUP right away, the police tell you which lawyer you're hiring as a defense attorney, then Cira comes in with hairless hair, and Cira gets a lawyer on official duty to help him out, and the family hires what the MUP is proposing, then we have a conflict between two lawyers. Don't do this. Something like that exists in America, let it go, they have their own way and their own way of solving it. You can't deny a person's litigation. You deny these provisions both the jurisprudence and the physical and legal face. That's forbidden. If you need a lawyer to be a power of attorney, you can limit and say, as a power of attorney in front of a Trade Court, a lawyer will come forward to meet those and those conditions. The party, it's her right. The power of attorney always comes out on behalf of the party. You forgot your client. You see a lawyer, you don't see a client. There's a very strange thing going on. If a judge shows up as a party in some procedure there, makes a man an accident so he has to make up for the damage or I don't know what, now he needs to have a lawyer to write a review, and he's a judge or a law professor. Law school professors, you know, you have to bring a lawyer with you all the time. It was written by your fellow professors who did this law. How could they have been so wrong? Skipped, forgot the party, only saw a lawyer, and the party's nowhere to be found. There's no court for a lawyer. You're saying the court exists for a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7637	National MP Petar Jojic, then Nemanja Sarovic, then Dragor Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join Mr Krasic's proposal and suggest that he not accept this amendment. Why? If you would accept, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment is not a constitutional category. Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed each one has the right to equal protection of its rights in proceedings before the court, other state bodies, any other body or organisation. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would not give a second explanation, just to point out that this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not a constitutional category. I suggest that this amendment be rejected. I, as a longtime lawyer, would have the opportunity to say now -- here, I accept this amendment, because I will have more parties to come to me to write them reviews and take their money. I think it's immoral and I never accept the right to take away one academic, one professor who wrote dozens of textbooks, one longtime judge, one longtime lawyer who's retired or one longtime prosecutor, an excellent lawyer in our businesses, to take away his right just because he's not a lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, it would happen again as I said it would, and this should in no way be accepted, but refused.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7639	MP Dragore Hiber. With the apology you have the advantage, young counterpart Nemanja Sarovic has given you the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7640	The truth is that Professor Knezevic and I are both law professors and we both wear beards, but that's where the resemblance ends. I've reported that I'd like to compromise first with the argument that's been made in the debate so far. My esteemed fellow MP Krasic, who has for the second time challenged teachers for the right to work properly on writing the law, shows that it is good that the professor also has rights in the commissions that write the laws, but he makes one mistake that would punish the professor's exam. He speaks of the litigative ability of the parties, and then speaks of mandatory representation as negation and litigation. For 200 years now, the law has been about to distinguish between participatory and postulational ability. The litigation capacity is the ability to be a party, and the post-utilisation capacity is self-involved, so the statements of your will to participate in a court procedure. It's possible that a litigatory ability exists, and a post-mortem ability doesn't exist. So the general argument is not good. Secondly, in many legal systems, not only in the United States, but in many European legal systems, including those that have been a model of our litigation law, or whose litigation laws we have prescribed, the post-utilisation capacity of the parties is excluded when it comes to items of a certain kind or subject matter of a certain value. Such matters foresee mandatory representation by a lawyer or another qualified lawyer. Our legal system didn't have it, but it had one institution that ran it. If the judge, I mean the applicable right, noticed that the party or its proxies were unable to participate sufficiently qualifiedly in the procedure, he was either obliged or obliged to warn the party and to recommend that he hire an expert, or a lawyer. The legislator himself, in the proposal for this law, predicted that the post-utilisation capacity of the party should be excluded from the requirements for the protection of legality. The truth is clumsy, and that's why I'm not voting for the amendments personally. The amendments provide for the post-utilisation capacity to be limited in some other cases. In the case of audits and when, in trade matters, the value of the dispute exceeds a certain value. That makes sense, especially in the review. The audit is an emergency legal remedy that can only be invested because of a breach of law and requires legal knowledge to determine whether or not there is a reason for the revision. Legal knowledge is needed which, on the one hand, would destimulate the party to invest in an audit when clearly there is no room and no cost exposure, and on the other hand to prevent the court from being covered by a large number of audits, as is the case today, so today the Serbian Supreme Court has more audit cases in work than there are in the Court of Justice. The amendment is not good, because it says that representation by an expert authority is necessary in all the procedures in which the revision is planned, which would mean a first-degree procedure, and so on. If it were to say that representation is necessary in the revision process as the legislator provided for in the legal protection procedure, the amendment would be good. So I'm going to repeat, this broad argument that this is being abolished or diminished by a litigator is not standing. The participatory capacity is quite the school's ability to be a party, and the ability to participate independently in the process is a postulational ability. It can be limited, it is limited in most legal systems and a reasonable restriction should be introduced to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7641	He asked for a replica of MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7642	I fully understand the need to protect the right writers of this law, but I cannot accept the fact that someone is breaking into the National Assembly without at least informing myself of the other members I listed on the first date of the similar amendment. I would ask one who criticises some of my views to turn the bill to page 83, to read Article 401 of Article 2, where he says "the audit is illegal". Point 2. - "if an audit has been declared by a person who is not a lawyer." The person who declares the audit may be one of the litigation parties, and may be a legal representative and pronoun, since the person who declares the audit read what it says – if the audit has been declared by a person who is not a lawyer. See what is written in Article 74, paragraph 1, here is well written – a party that is fully businessable can take the actions in the process on its own. It's in brackets written as a litigation. That's what I was talking about. So, the party, the physical and legal person, is litigiously capable. A natural person proves his propriety by allowing her to take the actions that the law allows. If it's a legal person, he's represented by a legal representative. He can also transfer his authority to a power of attorney who also needs to meet the requirements. Of course this isn't about that, if there was a need to prescribe who might be the power of attorney, that's another thing, but here it excludes the exclusive right of the party to declare the audit. I don't attack lawyers. It's the party that has the right to declare an audit. The audit is one of the procedural actions. No one should deny the party first to declare the audit. That's why I'm making a connection between members 84 and 401 and I'm proving that with some gymnastics, the party's play is off. We don't have the right to rule out a physical face if it has a litigatory capacity. I didn't criticise what the party needed, by her choice, to have a power of attorney. It's her right, let her choose whether or not she'll have a power of attorney. If he's not legally qualified, he's going to ask the power of attorney and a qualified person to write him a review, but he can't stand it if he's the only one who can handle... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The party forgot. I'm sure that professor would have failed his exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7643	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and then a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this is a good amendment, and perhaps it would be better for the MPs who have submitted it that, like Mr Markovic, they understand that they have made a mistake, to withdraw this amendment in time, because they are not serving them honorably and certainly will not bring any benefit to the citizens. What's this about? When it is said that there is no confusion, there is no objection for the SRS to be involved in the writing of the law by university professors, but we certainly have a lot against those university professors who are so strongly inspired by the international ad hoc tribunal in The Hague. This is the only thing that exists in The Hague today, but that ad hoc tribunal in The Hague is being mocked by all the lawyers of the world. It's not just about denying a party's ability to submit an audit. If this amendment were accepted, they would be brought into collegiate with several members of this law, first with Article 2 which says that the parties have the right to legal, equal and fair protection of their rights and that the court cannot refuse to decide on the request for which it is competent. If the court is in charge of a certain request, he cannot refuse to act even if the application for protection of legality is submitted by someone who is not a lawyer. It is not only about denying the right to submit an audit, but if the DS amendment is accepted it is also about denying the right to press charges or to take any other procedural action before a trade court, if the value of the dispute exceeds 2.5 million dinars. We're going to get into a situation where a natural person who owns a particular company or a firm or who has some dispute, who can have a full legal education, can be a graduate lawyer, a person who's been in this business for many years, has a successful firm, and that's clear because they're talking about more than 2.5 million dinars, and then we say that a person like that can't decide whether to hire lawyers or not, but we say, you're capable of running a company that turns millions of dinars, but you're not able to decide whether you're going to hire someone who's entitled or not. It's inadmissible because this way we can get into a situation where someone who's a lawyer, who appears as a party in the process, has to hire another lawyer. This is logically completely pointless. It is not just that someone is not qualified enough, so that certain rights will be denied, but in this way it is denied the right and the one who is a lawyer and is qualified to represent another person in another dispute, but will not be qualified to represent himself in his personal dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7645	Replica, MP Milan Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7646	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my esteemed colleague Sarovic did not understand me well. I did withdraw the amendment, but I don't think I made a mistake with that amendment. I wanted to use that amendment to point out some solution that I think will come to life in the future. It's not the first time. I think my colleague Sarovic remembers. So I proposed that, in my own time, direct elections be put in place to elect the highest legal holders, i.e. judges and public prosecutors. So now I've suggested a solution that I'm sure in five or ten years' time it will come to life in our society. I mean, I don't think anyone can do every job. As we, despite being professional in some things, perhaps someone for accounting, cannot conduct accounting operations, because we do not have a license, we do not have that evidence that carries certain rights, but also certain obligations, it is also in certain complex legal procedures, such as audit procedures, or in this case, before a trade court of over 2.5 million dinars. Not everyone can handle this procedure. It should be guided by someone who is professional, who has the state certificate that he is professional and who corresponds accordingly, which is governed by the law on law of law. The first amendment was not even a mistake, it was consciously submitted to hear about it, and the second amendment I think is the right measure for the situation in which our society is located and therefore I suggest you adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7647	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Vukkovic, giving up. Anyone else want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7648	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I believe that this amendment is comprehensive and contributes to the legal protection of the interests of citizens who have disputes before the courts, as well as the interests of business owners who have disputes in trade courts from business relations. Otherwise, there is already a principle right that a lawyer cannot defend himself in proceedings where mandatory official defence is provided by law. And if, say, a lawyer in some criminal proceedings, first of all in criminal proceedings, he's gonna have to have a party in legally prescribed cases of a mandatory defender, and if he doesn't get it provided by the court. There is no reason for a person not to be obliged in a litigation procedure, in a property protection procedure, to provide professional assistance in order to protect against the wrong conduct of the proceedings, but also to protect their property-legal interests more fully. It's logical that in disputes where there's a very high value of slowness, the person has to have a lawyer. This contributes to the efficiency of the court. We are witnesses that before the trade courts, owners of the company, who are capable of business people, but not enough law-knowers, declare various legal medicines to which they have no right, or for the wrong reasons, and thus lose the right they are legally granted. Therefore, inflation of the application of emergency legal medicinal products, or at all submissions, or the initiative before the competent court may be limited in this way, if the party in certain cases has an expert representative, i.e. a lawyer. European law knows the right to compulsory representation by lawyers, but it is the right to coordinate with the obligation of the state to provide free legal assistance to those who cannot finance professional legal aid themselves. I must tell you that all parliamentary groups agreed when they participated in the constitutional committee formed by this assembly, that the right to free legal assistance was guaranteed by the Constitution and to become a constitutional law institute. I continue to advocate that there is a correlation between the obligation to represent by lawyers in certain cases prescribed by the Law on the Judicial Procedure, but also for the obligation of the State to ensure that all parties who do not have an economic capacity are financed by expert assistance. I believe that this solution will also contribute to the efficiency of the procedure and that it will not come to the situation that the parties submit legal medicines that will be rejected because they are declared from the basis which the law has not prescribed, and it is very large disputes, with great value of the dispute, so that both citizens will be directly and indirectly protected from their wrong legal procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7649	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7650	Dear colleagues and colleagues, our amendment refers to Article 88. In fact, in article 88, the proposer predicted that a power of attorney who is a lawyer could be replaced by a lawyer, who is employed by him, if it was the party who appointed the power of attorney. First, there's one fundamental mistake here and it's a matter of employment, because I'm a trainee doesn't have to be employed. He can simply be on traineeship and does not have to be in a working relationship to account for it. It's the first mistake to be broken in the very text of the law. The second thing, this is touched by the relationship between the party and the lawyer, which has already been regulated by the Law on Lawyerry. Namely, when the party comes to a lawyer, he establishes a relationship of trust with her, and in the end she came to the lawyer, or she chose him. In which way that lawyer will protect her rights before the court, or represent her before the court, that's their business again. So it's that party and that lawyer. It is absolutely unnecessary to burden the party and lawyers with new issues, which is whether in the power of attorney, it must also stand the possibility that the proxies at the hearings will replace the trainee. This is because it is a regular practice with us that trainees replace lawyers in hearings and it is nothing controversial, nothing strange, it is in the end one of the ways of training trainees and therefore there is this traineeship. It's often just a question of a trainee going to court and saying, "I'm staying on a lawsuit, a lawsuit. " Sometimes he goes to court and just asks to postpone the hearing. So it's not that controversial. Otherwise, the question would be asked - whether the power of attorney must stand and the authority to write submissions to the trainee. It happens that interns write submissions. A two-year-old intern can write submissions quite successfully. After six months, it can write submissions, simpler content. If we further deepened it, the question would be asked, can you send an intern and submit a submission to court, etc. In fact, it seems to me that we are getting into this very organization of the work of the attorney's office, and so I think our amendment is very involved, and I ask the minister to reconsider and accept this amendment once again, so that we don't get into something that is not our material at the very least, it's the relationship between the party and the lawyer, and it's settled by the Law on Lawyerry, so in the end, when we deal with this law, we can also enter into the solution of this matter. Now, if we leave it like this, we'll have two different solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7651	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7652	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposed amendment is absolutely meaningful and that the solution offered by the Government is contrary to the Law on Lawyerry, because, as the previous debater said, the lawyer is in practice with the lawyer, and according to the provisions of the Law on Lawyerry, he doesn't have to be employed. It might as well be a volunteer. In this way, discrimination would be made between trainees, who are employees, and interns who are volunteers. This would lead to an unequal position of a certain person in front of the law and the Constitution. The point of this provision - that a lawyer can change and replace in the process the trainee is consensually meaning and the aim of the Law on Lawyerry, that trainees are in practice with lawyers. Please, gentlemen, how these legal interns will practice if I can't replace a lawyer doing litigation. Therefore, I propose that this amendment be adopted, because this is the only way that a balance would be established and the relationship between the Law on Prosecution and the Law on Lawyerry, and thus we would have a logical and meaningful legal system. This is how this system in Serbia is being violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7653	Anyone else want a word? Here you go. Minister Zoran Stojkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7654	Just one brief explanation. You know, there's a Law on Lawyerry, but here you're asked to enter into the law something the party doesn't need to know. The party doesn't have to know the law, talk to a lawyer, that's their relationship. I agree there should be trust with a lawyer, but then what's the problem with a lawyer telling a party right away that he can see his intern tomorrow? It's not a distraction, it's not an intrusion into his lawyership. But the party protects itself from what often appears in practice and complaints come, so a thousand things, you in the Chamber know it, so it says, "I hired a lawyer and I'm getting some kids who don't know, or they're putting it off, etc. So there's no interference or restriction on a lawyer, that when the party comes, if he has confidence in him, there's no way he's saying it, but I'm going to be replaced by an intern as a lawyer. It's no bother to give as information to strangers. Therefore, what has been done has to stay this way, so that it does not exist in the law, the party does not know it and negotiates a relationship with a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7655	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7656	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this issue has been regulated by the Law on Lawyerry. Therefore, the lawyer who accepts the party and the party has signed his power of attorney, the relationship between the lawyer and his trainee, has been regulated by the law on law, and the lawyer's office, i.e. the lawyer, is responsible for the procedure and powers given by the personal trainee. The requirement to predict in advance the possibility that even an intern will be able to represent it, it exists as a possibility, but it is unnecessary. That provision is too high, because this issue is regulated by the Law on Lawyerry. So, the relationship between the lawyer's office, the lawyer's office and the intern's is regulated by the Law on Lawyerry, and I think this solution is excessive and should not be incorporated into this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7657	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7658	After the minister's presentation, I got the urge to defend my lawyers a little bit. This article proposes, i.e. to provide for conditions for the granting of powers, i.e. the authority of lawyers under the authority of the party issuing them. We agree, of course, with everything the law has proposed, but our parliamentary group has suggested that it be added after point 3 of point 4 which would be said to receive the costs imposed from the opposite party. Anyone who has ever dealt with a lawyer knows what it means when costs are judged and how good it is, how much it speeds up and deprives all kinds of procedures like this one provision that would provide that a lawyer has the right to charge the costs of the opposite party. These are the costs of the procedure and it would be the right solution for a lawyer to charge them, a team before it was ever provided in some laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7659	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7660	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment is completely logical and consistent with the proposals we've had so far as the parliamentary group. Since a lawyer has been authorised to initiate proceedings on behalf of the party, to file legal remedies, initial submissions, it is logical that, after a lawsuit or any other procedure, he or she will initiate an executive procedure in which he or she will request the collection of the costs. A team before the company should be interested in the fact that a lawyer can, on the other hand, charge the costs of the proceedings in a calm manner and thus prevent the forced enforcement procedure that brings new costs, new engagements of parties and experts and burdens the work of courts. Thus, such a solution will contribute to the integrity of the conduct of the litigation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7661	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be rejected because abuses can occur in practice. Those abuses could look the next way. In practice, the lawyer will charge advances from the party's costs for the assembly of the suit, for the hearings, and later on when he gets a judicial verdict to ask for coercion from the opposing party and to put the money in his own pocket twice. This should be prevented in advance. In practice, these are common cases and therefore should be disabled. The citizen knows what he paid for and remains a citizen's right to regulate the relationship between lawyers and him, and this would make it possible for some individuals to abuse this provision and this amendment, if accepted, to the harm of the citizens they represent and therefore not to open up the possibility of someone profiting at the expense of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7663	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7664	Dear colleagues, I think my colleague Jojic had the wrong approach here. I think the approach that imposes on us is quite different, which is that much more often lawyers remain that side of short sleeves, or that side that's been cheated. Otherwise, if what you're saying is possible, it's always possible for someone to commit abuse, so it's possible in this case. There are very effective instruments that bring sanctions. You will admit that the lawyer is less likely to afford such a luxury, because it would not only withdraw possible criminal and legal sanctions, particularly a certain civil-law relationship, but certainly also a loss of license, or certain sanctions that would be imposed by the bar. I think if we were to start with that argument of abuse and that argument of who in which case will be left without what belongs to him, then I think we should accept our amendment, because lawyers in this case are the weaker side.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7665	You're referring to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7666	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute my colleague Markovic's claim. There are cases that once a lawyer couldn't charge the costs, but now it's a legal relationship between a lawyer and a party. It should not now be tied to a specific case and to a concrete legal regulation and proposal. Therefore, unless the party has settled the costs of the applicable legal tariff on it, it is then a relationship that the party regulates with its lawyer and lawyer with its party, but does not need to open up the possibility of double charges. This is what is dangerous, which is immoral and should not be allowed, and against it is Serbia's Bar of Lawyers and all of Serbia's parliamentary regional chambers. They're against it and they're asking, when citizens are represented by lawyers, one legal discipline and more responsibility. That's why I'm against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7667	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7668	My fellow lawyers apologized nicely, but they did bring out a lot of false things. It is true that a lawyer can initiate, as my colleague says, a lawsuit, a submission, etc., but he needs the authority of the party to do so. When he needs it, then he also needs it to be able to receive the costs, he needs the party's power of attorney, to be empowered by the party to receive the costs. Without that, it would turn out that the law gives him some right, and the foreigners take away. For these reasons, this provision does not change anything by looking at practice. A contractual relationship between a lawyer and a party exists, and when he's authorised to press charges, let him have powers and that he can charge the costs, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7669	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7670	Lawyers as MPs and in the image of the minister, MPs of the opposition and the authorities can agree nicely on some provisions, however, this amendment must not be accepted. I'm surprised the minister didn't attack this amendment more sharply. Read the introductory phrase of this article. This article defines a legal presummation. He says, if the party has given the lawyer the power of attorney to handle the case, and has not decided any closer to authority in the power of attorney, the lawyer is authorized, point 1), point 2, point 3, standard, normal, expected. You're asking for the presumption to be and that she's been given the authority to receive the determined costs from the opposite side. That kind of presumption can't stand, because a lawyer is in one, and I'm even saying it's not a contractual relationship, but in some relationship it's with its owner, not the other side. This kind of presumption isn't possible, because if there was a presumption like this, then no one can get a lawyer. You know everything. This is where we got free commercials for law offices. Take a walk, go to Vračar Municipality, and they'll tell you right away that the public enterprises represent this law firm, Nis - you know who is representing. You're nice in the bar, so make a deal there, discuss who's got a position, who's got a monopoly. Do not invalidate the basic rights of the citizens who are parties. You can't accept this, and it's a good thing you didn't accept this. This kind of presumption is forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7671	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ipsanovic. The representative has adopted this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is from the peoples of Istvan Ispanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7672	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tried to correct, I think, one mistake that was made in the bill of law. In particular, Article 97 provides in which language written submissions are to be made to participants in the procedure. In Article 97(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill states: "if there is in the court of formal use and some of the languages of national minorities, the court will provide judicial letters to those parties and participants in the proceedings that are members of the national minority and in the procedure are served by that language. '"As a former judge, when I imagined what would happen when the judge wrote a delivery order, so the poor dactylographer made a mistake and sent a participant in writing in another language, would it possibly be a violation of the procedure due to the error of the dactylographer? I tried to give a different solution and very simple, and I wrote that the letters are being delivered in the language in which the procedure is being conducted. Thus, no one should consider in which language the writing will be delivered, but they should always be delivered in the language in which the litigation is conducted. I think it's a much better solution than in the bill, so I suggest that the Proposer accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7673	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7674	Ladies and gentlemen, my predecessor has submitted an amendment that is comprehensive and rationalizing the court's behaviour, but thus does not endanger the right of members of the national minorities. First of all, Mr. Ipsanovic is a man who belongs to the national minority and who also has a case-law regarding such treatment and surely feels completely the right measure in the obligations that the court should have and which law should impose in the proceedings where the parties are members of national minorities. In this way it is very precise to determine which language the court will communicate with the parties, which is the language established at the beginning of the proceedings, when the proceedings were initiated and with which both the court and the parties agreed. Therefore, there is no reason for the court to investigate which national minority a particular party belongs to, so that each individual sends letters in different languages. On the other hand, when it comes to legal persons, it's impossible to determine. The application of this provision to legal persons is impossible, because legal persons do not have nationality. Otherwise, the Constitution guarantees the right that the parties are not obliged to declare which national minority they belong to. In the proposed way, as proposed by the MP, it is best to regulate the obligation of the court and the communication in the language in which the proceedings are being conducted, which is determined at the very beginning of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7675	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this issue needs to be resolved in a simple way. It is that if a citizen who presses charges against five persons and delivers it in four copies, and for the fifth defendant, let's say, did not file a complaint in the sample, in which case, according to this proposal, the court should return the complaint to the prosecutor, to deliver in a sufficient number of copies. This can simply be resolved on the cost of the party which has not delivered its submission to the court in sufficient numbers of copies. Have the court copy the cost of the party. Here's why I'm here for a solution like this. Because the procedure will happen to be delayed needlessly, as the court will return its submission to the prosecutor or the defendant and ask for sufficient copies to be delivered to the court. The flow of time is in practice long. It could take six months or a year, especially if it's a second-degree court. Therefore, I believe that a rational solution is only possible and practical, to be copied in court, but on the cost of the party from which the court asks to submit a submission in a sufficient number of copies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7677	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7678	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is a good amendment and should be accepted. Unfortunately, he's unspeakable. I don't know why my colleague Jojic missed it, or maybe knowingly wanted it, one other thing in this member of the law, which is that, in the event that a lawyer happens to send four copies instead of five, that submission will be deemed not to be timely surrender, or it will be rejected. I think it's a serious problem, because a slip can happen to anyone not to send enough copies. He could send them in the mail, and then in the office itself, he'd lose a copy. It's all possible stuff. You know, when he gets here and they go to the office to pull out, and they're banging on who's here, who's not. I think this article has made a serious mistake, and I don't know how it could be solved. Maybe it could be solved by some quick changes to this law. I think sometimes someone will be denied his right. Otherwise, as far as the amendment itself is concerned, this part proposed by Mr Jojic, as far as photocopying is concerned, is really a good amendment and really affects the reduction of the procedure. It's just that you might happen to have someone who's interested in stalling every second or third submission sent in a small number of copies, so you see how long it's been a year. Let's say, four times in a smaller number of copies, four times in a call for him to deliver the corresponding number of copies and pass the time, so I assume you'll adopt it. I had a need to really point to this last position which, due to the downfall, due to any technical error, could lead to someone being denied their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7679	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic, no, the word has a minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7680	This amendment is fine and I think it should be accepted, so the government accepts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7681	Thank you. I find that the motioner has accepted the amendment, but more must be accepted by the Committee of Justice. Do the others who answered the word stay on it? No, I don't. ) On Article 104 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 104, but in order to understand the proposal for which this member should be deleted, we need to explain briefly what this article refers to. In this regard, a fine of 30,000 dinars is intended to punish a person who is insulting the court, party or other participant in the proceedings. It is also stated that the fine imposed under Article 1 does not affect the sentence of a criminal offence, and Article 3 refers to the inclusion of such fines and the unpaid, and the conversion of such fines into prison days. I can understand that there is a need to introduce a litigious discipline, and I can especially understand that there is a need to introduce litigation through writing submissions, but indeed, on behalf of the SRS, I can disagree that in the event of such failures, someone must be punished either in cash or in prison as planned. I want to say a few things. First, we can protect by law that someone is not insulting the court, we can impose, we can demand that parties or witches, interpreters, as other persons, or other participants in the proceedings, but we cannot in any way explain to the public that this and such punishment will be just. Namely, every punishment should have a measure. This gives judges the opportunity to impose fines, even in the amount of 30,000 dinars, which is a very high penalty. On the other hand, for much more important things, criminal proceedings do not replace fines for prison sentences, so we see that people have committed perhaps some more serious crime than is an insult, and they have not received prison. So I think this provision is unfair and unfair to the parties. The fact that Article 2 says "the sentence imposed under the position of the 1st member does not affect the sentence of a criminal offence", I think it is a technical failure of those who helped the minister and the government write this law. I have to point out that if a fine is imposed in a criminal case, it affects the sentence in criminal proceedings, because according to the provisions of the law in criminal proceedings, this sentence must be directly included in that comprehensive sentence that will be imposed. It was probably something else here, which is the fact that this punishment does not prevent the conduct of criminal proceedings and the determination of criminal responsibility. As far as this member is concerned, I have a few more important things to say, and that's that, if it's a criminal offense, there's a so-called. Freeing a member of 96, which is from the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, is a member where, if a person in the protection of legitimate interests, in the protection of a person's right, someone is offended, he can be freed. This is what the legislator didn't take care of. It was not about another legal institute, which was about the Institute of Reciprocal Insultation, where a court notice could be issued. So it may happen that someone writes a complaint and insults the other party and the other party in response to the complaint also insults it. In criminal matter, if criminal proceedings were to be brought to this other party, a court notice could be issued, and that possibility was not left to the judicial court. So, it's celibate to delete this member, I think it's legally logical and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7683	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7684	We believe that this member, practically, is wanted by law to prescribe a style that someone will defend himself, a style in which someone will represent their interests. Or, I don't think it should stand in the law, and that there are some illogicalities, exist and are seen from the very formulation. It is said, with fines of up to 30,000 dinars, again, that litigation court will punish the person who insults the court. So, the judge has to determine that in one sentence or a few words, the litigator insulted the court on the basis of a plea. The court should have the honor, the dignity, I don't know who should personally feel hurt, the individual judge, the president of the council, or he's got the exclusiveity of this provision that he's assessing what it's objectively meant to mean to be an insult. So, if you make the opposite party lie on Monday, you risk being punished up to 30,000 dinars. If, in some subsequent submission, the opposing party says, he accused me of lying, and I claim that his witness was bribed and that he is a dirty and plagiarist, then he will also charge up to 30,000 dinars. If the court really needs to make money, then better make money in a different way, not this way by giving court notices. Furthermore, if this were to remain this way, then in criminal law, we don't need a provision that regulates the way in which a crime is committed to insults and slanders, which is if someone did it on the stand. So there's total inequality, because the same act and the same action, the same submission can be a means of warning and can be an act of committing a crime. That's what you stated in attitude 2 where you say, and being punished by 30,000 dinars doesn't affect his criminal responsibility, he can even go a little easier with criminal responsibility, he'll probably go that way. Maybe he should be released, because if protecting his rights on a stand is offensive, then there's no action, there's no crime. A colleague of Stevović explained exactly what a member of the Criminal Law and what a position it is, so that you had a little quarrel with the Criminal Law there, because you practically represent the same shop by acting in contempt of the court and some disciplinary violation, which is why the warning is going, and it is also a criminal act. You've got cumulation, possibly. I think it's much better to get this out and not go in, that we as legislators don't go in the style of how someone will defend ourselves, because this text is a question of style. If you move your head like that now, then read the newspaper, and what is said about the National Assembly as a state organ. That's another thing. Ask the prosecutor why he didn't react, but if this situation arises, let the prosecutor react for insulting the court in the afternoon, not giving the judge the right to assess it. So he's going to punish someone with 30,000, and then he's going to inform the DA, so he's going to file a criminal case, and he's going to be punished twice for the same crime by that individual. Don't get into style. What I write in my submission and what I say will talk more about me than what those words are for. Take care of it, because if in a litigation you want to influence how the party defends itself, what to talk about, how to talk, then I'll tell you on the basis of personal experience. I've succeeded in a lawsuit every time I've violently attacked the court and the opposing party. Otherwise, I couldn't even draw attention to the political problem. I couldn't draw attention to the political problem. Using those words -- we got the magistrate, we got the jeep, and we'll get this compensation for the promised rewards of other proceedings, like the one they charged in the Vračar municipality rent. She needs to get used to it once, and the party has to show in those words that she cares about fighting for her own interests, and you ministers go out and say, "We have everything and everything between the judges." What can I say about a judge who has tried the same case three times and cannot be excluded. What other word to use, how do I draw the public's attention that something's wrong with the court? How else am I supposed to act against Danko Lausevic, the man who punished the man under immunity? The district court was baptized with both his left and his right hand, is there such a judge who can bring it? Of course, you have to describe it properly in the domestic Serbian language and who it is and what it is. You give him tools to punish me for fighting for the truth. My defense style is my own thing. A judge may, on the basis of that, assess that he is such and such, but must not punish, especially not punish the party. You said submission here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7685	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7686	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm joining the motion to delete this Article 104, although the reasons I'm going to make are a little different. First of all, with a fine of 30,000 dinars, a litigation court in the same council cannot punish the party, because it is contrary to the rule that no one can be a judge in his own cause. So, if someone offends the judge on Monday, that judge should by no means have the right to determine the punishment of the person who allegedly insulted him and to assess whether that insult exists or does not exist. In addition, this member, or provision of this member of the law, is contrary to European standards, which is that the sentence or its unpaid part will be replaced by prison. It is forbidden by documents prohibiting debt slavery. No one can go to jail for being poor. This puts the rich in a more privileged position than those who are poor. In this way, someone will be able to represent his rights more freely in court, only because he knows that he has money and that he can pay any punishment that the judge gives him, while that poor man, the poor litigator, will have to suffer, modestly, without pleading to go through the whole proceedings at the expense of his rights and his own interests. That is why I believe that this member must not be, that is, the provision of this member must not be an integral part of this law. I urge the minister to accept this proposal, accept this amendment and delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7687	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SRS MP Col. Milan Stevovic has rightly and rightfully explained to you both here and in front of the minister why he is asking for article 104 to be deleted. I am truly surprised by Mr. Minister, that you are not responding now, and you may not react until later, because you know that this amendment makes sense because the member you are predicting is establishing, as counterpart Krasic said, the style of expression in writing the submission and the possible punishment for it, which is very high, and carries great danger, for each individual, for each party in the litigation process, and given various opportunities for the judge to give the sentence and to assess what kind of speech and style of expression is possible. It reminds us very much, especially the Serbian Radicals, this established punishment and this Draconian measure for one side in a litigation of what is done in The Hague tribunal, in one inquisitor way and the fact that none of the convicted Serbs before that political court, ad hoc court, can say what they think and think of the way they want to say it several times. Especially at the last status conference, if you followed it and saw it, it was also impossible for the president of our party, Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, for the simple reason that the chairman told him that such a way of interpreting him was not established by that court that we know he respects neither rights nor justice nor international nor all that a court should respect. We can meet, Mr. Minister, in a situation where workers who voiced open suspicion on some occasions, say PKK companies "Kragujevac", that the President of the Trade Court Goran Kljajevic is corrupt, that he deliberately halts the procedure for their exorcising the truth and the search for who abused his position in the privatisation process. It is one of many businesses, that Judge Kljajevic, as the chairman of the Trade Court, finds himself offended by the obvious fact that he is corrupt. It could happen to anyone, and you know what courts are like today and what kind of judges he has. It is fortunate that the vast majority are not like that, but those who are, they spoil the reputation of those who are employed in the judiciary and create legal uncertainty, they are extremely corrupt and that some party in its submission writes that it is expressing open suspicion that because of this and the process is being held back, that the judge is corrupt, and you know that if it is a matter of litigation which is due to property-legal relations, which are vital to an individual who, for several years, is simply inappropriate to prevent someone from reacting in his submission to an apparent wrong done. In order to allow people to fight for their rights, you must accept Mr. Stevovic's amendment to delete this member of the law for the simple reason that a precedent will be made, thus making it impossible for people to try to protect their rights and file written submissions with their own free expression and to seek to establish an actual state for them that the court will prove or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7689	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7690	Dear People's MPs, I support Mr. Stevovic's proposal and I believe that this member should be deleted, because the penalties will not achieve anything, we learned this at the fourth year of college from famous professors, but only the penalties are collected and delayed. Only fast and cheap procedure ensures the efficiency of the rights, which is achieved by savings in time, in work, in money. This is achieved through the concentration of evidence, the correct choice of means of proof, and before the start of the debate at the preparatory hearing all central issues will depend on the outcome of the dispute and on the basis of the official requirement, because without it all the effort, money and time will be thrown into the wind. I believe that the Law on litigation, as a procedural law, cannot be imposed on prison for the reason that this is not foreseen anywhere in the world and is contrary to all international legal standards and international legal regulations. I think this amendment is good and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7691	Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary to accept the amendment of counterpart Stevovic for several reasons. It is true that there is the possibility that parties during the proceedings of an insult or a court or another party or any other participant in the expert procedure, but I don't think this is the right way to prevent it. I think some other mechanisms are needed to raise the reputation of both the court and the judges and the parties in the proceedings and to punish in this way, where no other appropriate procedure has been provided to determine whether or not someone has been offended is wrong. You will allow that if this formulation remains in the law, there will be legal uncertainty, there will be uneven treatment by different judges in different cases. So we'll have a situation where some judge to whom the party writes on the basis that it is unprofessional, although it may be true and may stem from how the judge previously conducted the proceedings, that the party is punished for this reason, that there is no possibility of a complaint at the level of the amount or at the very decision on punishment, not even a second-degree court in another case, and that another judge will not punish the party for that. This is not the way to limit the conduct of parties, but rather through a criminal procedure that otherwise regulates the offence. What's also controversial is that this solution predicts that a judge, not only can punish someone with 30,000 dinars, but also gives the judge the possibility that if they can't charge that amount or can't be fully charged, replace that fine with a prison sentence. Too much authority has been given to the judge, for example If you punish someone with 30,000 dinars, then you can charge 25,000, it's possible that the judge will estimate that it's worth three days in prison, and that in another court he'll send someone to serve those 5,000 dinars in prison for 30 days. It was necessary to provide for this solution instead of giving the judge the authority to assess the value of a day in prison, at least to call on criminal law and the provisions on the exchange of fines by prison. That would be a much more appropriate solution, to know in advance what a day of imprisonment is worth, to know how much an insult is worth, so that the disposition here is reduced. This way, I don't think this problem will be solved, because whoever has enough money won't have any problem insulting whoever they want and paying 30,000 dinars for it, but as usual and here the car will break down at the orphanage and the one who doesn't have enough money, he won't be able to file a lawsuit, he won't be able to hire a lawyer, he won't be able to express himself as he thinks he should express himself in submissions. If we want to apply European standards, if we want to effectively ensure the same rights for all participants in the process, then these rights must in no way depend on the property situation of the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7693	Here you are, Milan Stevovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7694	I thank all the colleagues who supported the amendment that I wrote, but I would also like to say in practice that it is a very disputable concept of insult on the table. Two years ago, a case like this happened to me – in the courtroom, a sharper tone of judges threatened Minister Batic. I was provoked and in the complaint I only said briefly – such a minister, such a court. If this law had been ruled back then, it would surely have been punished. You know what the current minister told us about the predecessor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7695	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment with the correction possible. Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7696	Dear People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 106(5). I accurately predicted that Article 106 of Section 5 should be deleted. I would quote a member that I suggested would be deleted. He says, "The provisions of Section 4 of this Article shall apply to a period which may be subject to special regulations to appeal as well as to the time-limit of limitations and claims or any other right." This is about deadlines or hearings. Obsolescence deadlines can only be provided for by the Law on Liabilities and other material and legal provisions, and the deadlines of limitations cannot be governed by procedural laws, even in the part of the way in which the deadlines themselves are calculated. I think without this attitude of 5, this article would be good and acceptable. I urge you to adopt my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7697	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7698	Thank you. Article 107 provides for deadlines, i.e. the timely delivery of submissions, that is to say. Article 6 of the statement reads: "If the application for a period is submitted or referred to an unauthorized court before the expiry of the period, and arrives at the competent court after the expiry of the period, it shall be deemed to be submitted in time if its application can be attributed to the court without jurisdiction to the applicant's ignorance or to the obvious failure of the applicant." We have suggested that after the word "it will be considered that in time it is filed" the words "if its application to an incompetent court can be attributed to the ignorance or obvious failure of the applicant". We asked for the erasure of these words because we do not feel that we should leave the court to assess whether it was a failure or a ignorance of the applicant. It's about submissions that can be filed by ignorant parties. Of course they can make this kind of mistake. However, if the submission made in time is considered timely, it will be easy for the court to contact the court without jurisdiction and refer it to another court. We think it's too high to allow a judge to chit-chat the parties who by mistake filed a plea to an incompetent court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7699	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7700	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem with this amendment is that this law clearly indicates the role of a lawyer, in a way and through permission and authority that only a lawyer can invest in an audit, namely the fact that it is important for a professional person to participate in the procedure. If this amendment were to be adopted, it would be possible for a lawyer, who is certainly not a person who, by ignorance or obvious failure, can refer submissions and lawsuits to an incompetent court, to be able to abuse such an opportunity and to submit the submission to a deliberate court and, in that way, to the situation of his or her own interests and interests, to extend the deadlines he needs. As regulated by the proposed law, it is clear that a party that does not have the power to be a party that can be attributed to ignorance and obvious failure, but cannot be a lawyer for sure. If this amendment were to be passed by a lawyer, he might be in a position to abuse this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7701	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article could add one intervention, i.e. that something is regulated, given that according to the proposal the day the submission is made, as regulated by Article 2 107's position, is considered to be the day of reference to the court through mail, recommended by shipment or telegram, and should have been added to the word - mail. Telegram, but - mail. Why? This is very important in pre-plugged deadlines. In Article 107(3) of the proposed formulation, the proposed wording is not clear, it says "an orderly submission sent by means of a telegram on the proposal should be re-send within three days". This would lead to inefficiencies. If the telegram is delivered by mail and if it has arrived in the files, it is not necessary to bind the party because it is written. The letter shows, as well as the submission, content and declaration of the party. It could only be in the event that the telegram, as a submission, does not see everything necessary to decide by the court. I'm saying - it's a small intervention and in this respect it could only contribute to improving the text of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7703	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed solution made by the Government is unclear and inconsistencies, because it is placed in a different position of the person who sends the submission by telegram than the one who teaches the submission by mail or at the office of the competent court. Each submission submitted by a telegram is disorderly in the sense of some other regulations and provisions, because it does not contain files, or written evidence to which you are calling, or otherwise reverberates, because a telegram has never been submitted in sufficient numbers of copies for the court and for the opposite side. If the submission is rejected, if handed over by a lawyer in an insufficient number of copies, then the question arises - when a lawyer sends a telegram, is it a avoidance of this obligation, which is imposed by some other provision, or is it a lack of logic and contradiction imposed by the legislator himself, or by the legislator, with all these remarks that I have heard from other colleagues who spoke before me. I believe that the amendment tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic should be adopted because we must not allow a judge, individual, or any court, in a free volunteer way, to assess whether anyone in ignorance or in an obvious slip has filed a plea to an incompetent court. Legal actions and legal deadlines cannot depend on the party's subjective relationship with them, but they must be clear in order for each court to apply them consistently to all Serbian citizens in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7705	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7706	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 107. The law on litigation regulates the mode of timely delivery of submissions and regulates in the first six positions how submissions are made through the recommended shipment, via telegrams, how submissions are made to persons deprived of liberty, military persons and persons working in military institutions, and the situation when the submission is filed by an unauthorized court within the time limit, and the submission came to the competent court after the deadline. This amendment refers to the position of the 7th member, which refers to the application by analogy of time-limits for time-limits for submissions for periods of limitation of claims and of certain other rights. Here it is trying, by the way, that Article 107 of the Law is absolutely copied from the existing Law on Procedural Procedure, which is Article 113, and absolutely nothing has been changed, but a failure has been made in the current law, and even now, in this new proposed law, it is trying to regulate procedural norms which are regulated by material-legal regulations. It is, in fact, that the limitation of the claim regulates the Law on Liabilities, and according to that law in Article 360, the court is not obliged to take care of the periods of limitations. So, the party is in a particular case obliged to keep an eye on whether an application is obsolete or not and can only be called to antiquity or not. In Article 368, there is a situation where an outdated claim can also be charged, and it can be charged if there is a manual stock or if there is a registered mortgage. So, the trustee, even though it's an out-of-date claim, has the possibility of repossessing the handheld or the mortgage to collect his claims, means the deadline has expired. In Article 386, there is a suspension of the limitation of persons at the service of a military term or having a military obligation, they cannot run out of limitation until three months after the service of a military term or termination of a military obligation. So it's a matter regulated by the Law of Liaison and absolutely no place in the law of litigation. On the other hand, Article 1 of the proposed law on litigation procedure provides that this is a general law, which means that if there are specific laws governing procedural matter these specific laws will apply. In this case, there is a relationship of special law under the general law. There is a reverse situation here that the general law wants to regulate a specific situation such as the question of the limitations of the claim and some other rights. Which others do not specifically state. We think that the 7th position of this member is absolutely unnecessary and that it is intruding into the matter of material regulations, material rights and that procedural regulations cannot simply regulate the issue of limitations of demand or other rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7707	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7708	I think this is about confusion. He doesn't touch his attitude 7 on any other thing from the Bond Act. It's just said here if there's an limitation period, for example for three years, then the last day falls on Sunday will be next. So that's all they regulate. It doesn't touch anything in obsolescence. Antiquity is three years old, but if the last day falls on Sunday, then it will move or if it falls on holiday it will move for the next day. That's what this member says, nothing else. It does not touch these deadlines in this way but only regulates if the last day of old age falls on Sunday, a state holiday, and in that case the next day applies. That's all there was in mind, so obviously there was a mix-up about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7709	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7710	Just so there's no confusion, you need to erase attitude 7. That's why, because the beginning of this sentence relating to the time limit for filing an action, that's why you have an obligation, and that's why there are all these provisions. Your head 8 tells you -- deadlines and hearings. Whether the action will be brought, or whether there is an obligation and the possibility of the action being brought within 30 days, 60 days, 60 days, a year, that deadline is determined by a material regulation, but an integral part of it are these provisions on deadlines. But we're potentiating this second part -- it also applies to the period of limitations of demand and other rights. The demands are generally regulated by the Law on Liabilities, but the fact is that deadlines of limitations, payment rights and some other claims are regulated by specific laws and there is no possibility of applying these provisions. It's said here - as well as the deadline of limitations of the claim. The period of limitation of the claim is regulated by the Law on Liabilities. It's exactly how much is prescribed, what counts, what doesn't count, when the interruption occurs, when the rest occurs, everything is regulated. You, if you now transfer something that is essential to material regulation material into the procedural law, have only created a confusion with the judge that he will not know how to calculate the deadline, even from the point of view of the beginning, end, last day, and whether the submission is due on a working day, working day, etc. So it's not a problem when it comes to a lawsuit. The problem is when it comes to demand. Handing over the lawsuit, it's a process store, and the limitation of a claim is not a procedural action. Searching whether it exists or not. Secondly, you know for a fact that the statute of limitations of the court is not subject to official duty but only if the party calls. With this formulation, you have expanded, exploited the possibility of entering into something that is materially regulated through procedural provisions. This is not an option to be done in the Law on the Procedural Procedure, so before you wrote in the last row of Article 1, that provisions should be applied, but from the point of view of procedural provisions, the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, as well as the provisions of other laws. You gave primate to the provisions of the litigation procedure. In procedural provisions, you do not have the opportunity to change the law on litigation, influence or otherwise define something contained in the material regulation. That's what our intervention is about. Of course, according to the terms of the deadlines, you will calculate whether the action is timely or not, in the sense that it is filed within the time limit prescribed by the material regulation. However, here are two deadlines that are also material, no matter what is procedural. This applies to actions in the process. These provisions on deadlines and hearings, within which time limit is submitted, a proposal for recovery in the previous situation, within which a complaint is lodged, as the time limit for appeal is calculated, are in this sense specified deadlines. You've extended it to the limitations of demand and the obsolescence of the right itself. In that part, we intervene and say that there is no room for it in the law of litigation, it is already contained in material and legal regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7711	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7712	This amendment should be accepted, not because this amendment is good, but simply because the whole article 107 is not good. Article 107 is not good and is simply contrary to Articles 20 and 21 of this Act. Just now, a colleague set a fine example. He wants to sue me in Nis, he's a lawyer from Nis and presses charges against me in Nis. What's going to happen to that lawsuit? A trespassing suit, say, sue me in Nis and what's gonna happen with that lawsuit or some other lawsuit that's about to go on. Each one is more or less bound to a deadline. He's suing me in Nis. If I get into the debate, I'm in. It's not because a 107 says it's not. According to article 107, the lawsuit will be dropped because the deadline is up. He sues me the day before my deadline. I am sued by a man in Nis because he hopes that I will accept the jurisdiction of the court in Nis and that it is in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the same law. The court doesn't wait at all if I'm going to accept local jurisdiction and decide if I'm going to point out the objection or if I'm going to give an answer to the lawsuit, the court isn't waiting at all. The court will simply dismiss it as untimely, because it cannot arrive in Belgrade and be timely. The problem is in article 107. I'll do it again if I have to. The problem is generally in article 107 or accept the amendment to Leile Ruzdić. If you do not want to accept the amendment to Leila Ruzdic, please accept the amendment to this colleague. At least let's accept that amendment, so this doesn't all apply to lawsuits. I repeat, here is a concrete example: counterpart Bosko Ristic decides to sue me, Milan Markovic, and for his tactical reasons, he decides to refer the suit to the court in Nis. That court is not competent in any way, but it should depend on whether I object or not, as it stands in Article 20 of this law. Maybe I won't object, because I like to argue in Nis, too, so I'm going to engage in an argument and answer the suit and we're going to establish the local jurisdiction of the court in Nis. If, on the other hand, the seat of Article 20 turns to Article 107, he'll say no, so I won't even have a chance to plead whether I want to accept that local jurisdiction or not. He's not gonna give me a chance to make a statement about incompetence, or maybe just to drop an answer to the lawsuit. Article 107 is not good and this is due to the fact that all of this was done too quickly, since this is one of the fundamental laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7713	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7714	I thought we were all reading the same thing. Whether I filed a timely suit with another court, it's a matter of jurisdiction, whether that court is local or not. It has nothing to do with untimely. You can take whoever you want, if you file within the time limit, and the court will assess whether he is in charge or not, and deliver him to the competent court. It has nothing to do with article 107 and untimely. The court won't give you a chance to plead, they'll say he's not in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7715	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7716	Ladies and gentlemen, colleague Milan Markovic is absolutely right. I think we got a bad interpretation here from the minister, because this is exactly what this is about, if the lawsuit is filed before the court's time is up, so that inadmissible court delivers the same lawsuit to the competent court after the deadline, the party will suffer the consequences. The case that MP Milan Markovic spoke of is about to take place. If a person submits an application for trespassing, which is related to a period of 30 days from the date of knowledge of the committed act of trespassing, the party is required to file an action stating all the facts it has learned and the date on which it learned it. If such an action is filed by an unauthorized court on the 29th day, it has maintained the deadline, but if the court considers that the prosecution has been drawn up by a lawyer, and that he is not competent, he will pass it to a local court of law and it will be 30 days, and since the case has been filed by a lawyer, it will be dismissed because it cannot be treated as being filed in ignorance or as a result of a failure. Therefore, it is necessary to delete this member’s position. I'd be happy to see this member change completely because he's letting the court judge who missed the address. Now the lawyer who's in the office alone will always be in a situation where his suit is dropped, and the lawyer who has an intern will be able to say that his intern or secretary by mistake wrote another address on the envelope. The party may also sue a lawyer, but it can file charges against an unconscious judge who will unequally apply this provision of the law to different cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7717	The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7718	I'm surprised by my colleague Ristic, he's transferring to his personal field. I've always distinguished the lawsuit from the other submissions, whether it was reasoned or not. We're talking about the lawsuit. When we talk about the lawsuit, it's not this case. The lawsuit is brought to the court. If he's caught rock, he's caught. So I'm saying that I'm making that difference and I see that here they don't say -- lawsuits and other submissions, they say, submissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7720	We're talking about article 7 that's really talking about the lawsuit. We have a situation where a lawyer, can't be attributed to his ignorance, is simply the assumption that he knows, but for tactical reasons, he filed a lawsuit in a court of law in Nis. Normally, it arrives the last day, and by the time it arrives in Belgrade, it is untimely, and it has not given at all the right to agree to the establishment of that local authority in Nis. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7721	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7722	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been interpreted by the minister that I don't understand what a lawsuit is, what a submission is. I would like to read Article 100 of the Bill, which represents the minister, where he says: "The suit, the suit, the response to the suit and the legal remedies are filed in writing (submissions)". That speaks enough of interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7724	We don't really understand each other here. He specifically says here he's referring to the lawsuit. There is a conflict here between this regulation, attitude 6, where the second court, to which it was delivered in writing after the expiry of the period when the court which first received the written notice was not competent, can reject the submission and be deemed not to have been submitted within the time limit. However, Article 20 of the Court of Justice may, under official duty, only be notified when there is an exclusive local jurisdiction of another court. There's always a chance that the defendant will get involved in the debate and establish the jurisdiction of that court. The law is unspeakable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7725	Here you are, MP Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7726	First of all, I would like to tell you that the amendment to Article 107, paragraph 7, rather than Article 107(6), is on the agenda. Leila Ruzdić. Insistent members of the DS explain the amendment that has already passed. I see that no one in the assembly is following the course of the debate and everyone has returned to the amendment that has already passed. This is not about how you deliver your submissions to an unauthorized court within the time limit, so when that submission is sent to the competent court and the deadline passes. The debate is currently being held on attitude 7 where it explicitly states that the provisions of headings 1 to 6 apply and on a deadline within which special regulations must be brought before the action, as well as on the period of limitation of the claim or of any other right. The minister interpreted it differently here. But here it is absolutely clear what it refers to. It refers to a period of limitation of claim or any other right, in terms of material rights. Process regulations cannot regulate material rights. There is an unequivocal provision, and the full article 107 is incriminatingly copied from the already existing Law on Prosecution. No one was paying attention, it was just mechanically taken and prescribed, thinking that it was all right and right and no one was getting into the essence of things. The problem is and should not be allowed, and that is also an observation by the chairman that we are going back to the debate on those amendments that have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7727	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is to Article 108, but we will not move on to it now, but before I set a break to read you a notice. The session of the Transport and Connection Committee is held today at 14.00 p.m. on the third floor. I'm setting a break to 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7728	We'll continue our afternoon work. Please continue just to determine if we have a quorum to work on. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I ask all MPs who are constantly working to insert their identification cards. After we realized we had a quorum, we continued to work. On Article 108 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Miljko Četrović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7729	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment, as was the intention of the other amendments of the SRS parliamentary group to improve the proposed text of the law on litigation procedure, in view of Article 108(2). The proposed text of the law states that the court will call upon the parties and the other persons whose presence it deems necessary at the hearing. This word of good time can be interpreted extremely broadly, especially from those who are obliged to, based on a solution to the hearing, either a preparatory hearing, or a hearing for the main debate, invite the party to the hearing. On the other hand, when observing the provisions of this Article 108, as well as the provisions of Articles 288 and the final provision in that article, the call for a preparatory hearing shall be delivered no later than eight days before the hearing. Article 294 in the last position, which provides that these provisions of Article 288 shall apply for a call for a hearing to be scheduled for the main debate. Likewise, no later than eight days before the hearing for the main debate, a call shall be submitted to the parties in the proceedings, taking into account all the problems and ineffectiveness and unsatisfactory of the courts applying or applying these provisions of the law on litigation procedure, I considered, and it is justified that this word "good-time" should be replaced by the words "as soon as the date of the holding of the hearing is determined". The hearing shall determine the court, where the law requires it or where it requires the needs of the proceedings. It is normal to make a decision by the court on the determination of the hearing and against that solution is not even allowed to appeal. Invoking parties is made by invitation. Most often, with a call to the parties, there is a particular submission based on which the parties find out the cause of the hearing. Is it enough that it is reportedly listed in these two members about the call to prepare the hearing or the main debate, for at least eight days? That by looking logically should be an exception, however, by watching how all this is really happening, it has become a practice in courts. Can the party, within eight days in the process, consider the submission, eventually obtain other evidence, that if he does not have an attorney or provide witnesses or other evidence that is essential for the rapid operation of the court's impunity? And that's the internal question of the functioning of the courts, which is the purpose of every court case. The purpose of each court case is to settle a legal dispute between the parties in the proceedings as soon as possible and to resolve such a decision. This is the objective of each procedure and following a judicial executive decision, the execution of whether by voluntary or coercive means. No wonder the parties or citizens of Serbia lost confidence in the courts, because given that often, not by their own fault, the court, the guilt of the proceedings, the participants in the proceedings, the court has been delaying the proceedings inappropriately for a long time, that the parties lose any hope of getting the truth and justice. No wonder, I have one personal example, not me as a participant in the procedure, that in the King one dispute lasts 22 years and there was a judicial executive decision from 1982 to 2004. Imagine a child being born at 22 years old if he's a better student he's graduated from law school. He could not enter the procedure on behalf of one of the parties in the process. Given all that I've said, I can't understand that the Committee had no understanding that one of the provisions that should set a time limit for a court or a participant in a case that works on behalf of a court. This is about the minutes or offices or court workers to conduct the call procedure or to make calls. The board didn't accept this. (President: Time, Mr. Four. I hope that the minister present here, given that he was in good faith, that some amendment has accepted, will accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7730	Thank you. Anyone else by this amendment? Necessa Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7731	Thank you. I hope Mr. Minister accepts this amendment as an amendment to Article 103 because I really think it's good and it improves this law. What's this about? Such a legal formulation as is in the draft law has been given the court's will to decide what is considered to be timely when it comes to inviting parties and other persons to attend a particular hearing. The amendment, submitted by Miljko Cetrovic, says the word "mild-time" is replaced by the words "right after the date of the holding of the hearing". Anyone who worked in the judiciary knows the hearings are scheduled for two and a half months in advance. It's not some 10-15-day deadline, so this word could have some positive effect on time. We also know that when we give someone the will to assess whether the call will be sent today or will do so next week and when there is a large amount of work in mind that today's courts, a large number of cases, then it is known to be left for later, because there are two and a half months left until the day of the hearing is held, it is thus delayed indefinitely. Those who know what the court's system of work is, know that the judge would once set a date for holding the hearing must be the subject. They know that it is better for the calls to be called immediately and sent to the parties and other persons, rather than to postpone the case for a month, that after a month he will again be worn to the judge to review the mail and to say, "Now send the call." Also, if we link this to the members of the law that regulates delivery and change of address, I think it is better if we already have a deadline of a month or two, when it is scheduled to hold a hearing, and try unsuccessfully to deliver, to leave enough time to the court, that the party who changed the residence, or to change the address of the apartment, or if it is a letter-receiver that changes the address of the apartment, and not to inform, which is due to the court, that it is sufficient time to give the court sufficient time to place it in writing or a call that is being delivered to the court's advertising board, to pass that eight-day deadline that is necessary to be considered successful and then to remove any procedural deficiencies that would lead to a delay in the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7732	Thank you. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted to the 110th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. (Employees answer for word. ) On Article 120 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please report in in due time, be kind and respect the time of the congregation. There'll be an opportunity. Members of the 120th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 120. Proposal for a law on litigation referred to in Article 1 I quote Article 120, paragraph 1, is amended and it reads: "The journal is drawn up by the fact that the president of the council is clearly telling the scribe what he will enter in the record. At the request of the party, the statements and statements of the participants must be entered in the record by dictating the notary directly. At the request of the party, the president of the council must approve a tape recorder at the hearing, which is found in the minutes. The party recorded at the hearing shall, in writing, typed text of the tape recorder from the hearing to be delivered to the court within seven days of the day of the hearing. ''Article 120 of the Serbian Government's Bill, or Ministry, has only one sentence in its position: - the record is drawn up in such a way that the president's council tells the writer aloud what he will enter in the record. What differs from the legal solution under this amendment as proposed by the Government? It is different that, at the request of the party participating in the procedure, the entry of statements into the minutes, directly, by dictating the scribe, not as proposed by the Government and as so far has been a practice, to include in the minutes a summary of the President of the Council, of what the person or party has stated in the proceedings. In such a way, it can significantly change the meaning of a person or party's statement in the process, which can be negatively reflected in the further course of the process. The second newspaper under this amendment is the possibility of a magnetic recording of party statements in the process. For magnetic recording or audio recording, there are some other interpretations if they were to be included in the evidence. In this case, the audio record would be confirmed by the typed text of the video from the held hearing, which gives it authenticity. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides the possibility that the defendant, in the course of his defence, may request that the judge allow him to dictate his defence directly to the scribe. Why would this not be acceptable even in the conduct of a litigation procedure? What would be achieved by adopting this amendment? This amendment creates conditions to record, literally all details relevant to the process being conducted, and at the request of the party and persons participating in the procedure. Then, it excludes the possibility of misinterpretation of a party participating in the process's statement and would also respect the higher degree of equipment of our courts. The court proceedings to be conducted under the Law on Procedural Procedure, with this amendment proposed by the SRS, will be incomparable, on the legal side, more just and more based on the credible statements of the participants in the procedure. The lawyers know from experience that many convictions have been brought down or changed precisely on the basis of complaints from a person or parties to the credibility of the minutes made up by the president of the council. It is known that litigation is a process that usually drags around courts for a long time, and it is extorting participants in the process of high court costs. It is therefore necessary to accept this amendment, for all of these reasons, in the end and for more effective and faster work of the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7734	Thank you very much. On the same amendment, MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7735	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, we are simply not given the opportunity to talk earlier about the amendment to Article 110 that we have submitted. I don't know why you've denied us that possibility, Mr. President. So, our MP group, to call it a misunderstanding, didn't come out in a principle debate, not just ours. I remind you that neither the SRS parliamentary group had the opportunity to plead in the principle debate on such an important law. This is one of the fundamental laws of the state. Otherwise, we are dissatisfied with the way this law is passed, and otherwise we think that the public debate, which was during the summer, was very bad, was badly done, did not cover a wide enough circle of people, and we also think that this law should have been moved to the 15th or 16th points of the agenda, and in the meantime to correct some obvious illogicalities that we have come across together. I should also inform the public that the DS boycotted the Justice Committee yesterday. The Committee on Justice does not discuss amendments. If the amendment comes from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, he simply rejects whatever it says. They didn't go any better or radicals, but I'm talking about our amendments now. This was not the case in the last term of this Parliament, when the Committee on Justice very seriously and competently discussed the draft laws on the agenda. And this hasn't happened yet, we tried to signal you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7736	Mr. Markovic, but in the past and in this meeting, the same Rules of Procedure apply. According to Article 99, the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I remind you, if you haven't followed the session, there's a member of the 120 on the agenda. The amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Be kind, you spent a minute and 47 seconds talking about that amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7737	It's not a dispute, Mr. President. Such an intolerant relationship as you are now showing, and what you have just done, not allowing us to make a statement about Article 110 to which we have submitted the amendment, can cause, on our part, that 20 MPs appear from now on in each amendment, using a lot of time to do so. So work in the Assembly cannot be based on how much the Rules of Procedure is allowed, but there must be some tolerance between MPs and the president of the Assembly. You, as President of the Assembly, must take care of the overall atmosphere in this assembly and again I ask you to plead with me on Article 110. I noticed that other colleagues did not notice when that article passed through and when it went to the hearing under Article 120. I take it you won't let us plead? As far as Article 120 is concerned, it is related to Article 110. Yeah, it's natural for him to be related to Article 110. In fact, this whole law is designed to speed up the conduct of a litigation procedure, and we are all unanimous here in the assessment that the proceedings have been going on too long with us, which in the first place raises the question of the right of citizens through the court. Of course, the answer to how important it is to exercise the rights of citizens through the court is if we imagine a completely different question – and where will citizens exercise their right if not through the court. That's why we've all worked so hard to give as many amendments as possible in this short time to speed up the process. Among other things, our amendment to article 110 was exactly that way. We felt that the court debate should always be postponed for a certain time, and for an indefinite period only when the parties agreed to do so. But that amendment has passed, again without debate, and I must admit that I am personally disappointed by it. This has never happened in the National Assembly before. As far as Article 120 is concerned, it's a good idea. My colleague has a good idea. But on the board, what little call discussions, if you can even call it that on that board, went more in the other direction. So it's a good idea, just the way we want to do it now is not good. It is necessary to provide appropriate material and technical means to ensure that the Court is monitored in this way. I really welcome this idea. We of the DS, but this time simply cannot vote for this amendment, in the hope that very quickly, perhaps in a year or two, we will have amendments to the Law on the Prosecution, when we will be able to realize together that our courts are also ready to follow the procedure, therefore, through modern means, and not to be like now, through the minutes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7738	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 120? Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic. In the meantime, allow me just a brief clarification. So once again, I apologize if the MPs who submitted the previous amendment did not follow the debate concentratedly and reported in due time. I'm really sorry, but I don't have any business opportunity to return the debate from one amendment to another, nor can I provide compensation for those who didn't apply for the principle debate, and they were present to do so afterwards, so I really have to work on the Rules of Procedure and hope for general satisfaction. Thank you very much, Miss Jovanovic, sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7739	Mr. President, this remark about the principle debate can apply to me and the MPs of the SRS, but you know very well – there is one expression with us Serbs, that something can be smudged. You just did it. You've brought two very important laws together in a debate of only five hours, apparently a principle debate, and it's over in 15 to 20 minutes. According to what happened and who did the right thing, and what happened and when we set the agenda, it's better for you that we don't go back to it. It is true, you have skipped, the report shows, the amendment to 110, and as for the amendments of counterparts Radisa Ilic, MPs of the SRS, it is very important that MPs in the voting day, I guess, hear me, hope they hear me, and those who speak and who may not care, decide to accept the amendment of counterpart Radisa Ilic. Because the authenticity of the witness statement from the trial, recorded in this way, will represent an improvement in the form of legal certainty and the basis for anyone in the litigation process to seek the protection of their rights in an authentic manner. I will remind you of one practice that has succeeded, in such and corrupt Belgrade courts, starting from First to Fourth, to introduce the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. In all the disputes that were under way before the competent, highly corrupt courts in Belgrade, he insisted that everything he spoke be made directly into the record. And, of course, he made it possible for his associates, that we were able to do as we know and know, because each of these hearings was open to the public, to record all of it, to publish, to have a lead on it, and that the entire public could get acquainted with what was contained in this dispute, and I'm telling you -- it was mostly cases of various abuses, various mafia clans in our country. In order for you to allow any citizen who wishes to do so in one lawsuit, either side, to keep it authentic, which is happening there, you would have to, and that is my advice, primarily the SRS parliamentary group, to accept such an amendment by your colleagues Radisa Ilic, and there is no justification for those who have thought loudly on the Committee that there are no technical means to do so. At least today shouldn't be a problem, that each of the courts should be able to do so and on the tape, as stated by counterpart Radisa Ilic in his amendment, to record what is required in the trial before the court in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7740	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, the word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7741	We believe that it is safer for the letters to be delivered to the legal persons to be found in the letter office. Every legal person is responsible in his office he holds, etc. It doesn't say that it's required to be an authorized person. The delivery guy can't ask the court who's authorized, who he can hand over to, and there are possible abuses. So, as a member of the family household can be left, etc. So, and here, whoever finds himself in the letter office, the official of that organization, has to take it in writing, or if he doesn't receive it to bear the consequences as if it's written, then the whole way if he doesn't receive the subpoena board about the call. We think this is effective and contributes to the acceleration of the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7742	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Member 128 is in close contact with the previous member, i.e. with Article 127. The letters shall be sent to the Member of 127 and shall be in relation to Article 128 by mail, and may be delivered through a specific person employed in the court, through the competent authority of the municipality, through a legal person registered for the conduct of delivery operations. I do not know that there is a legal face in Serbia that needs to be delivered. If the promoter meant that a new agency would be set up to take money in connection with the delivery, it should be said that it is only possible when it is regulated by law or law. when we have such an agency or such a legal person for the delivery of letters. I know there's not a single registered legal person who needs to be delivered in writing. Now the question is what needs to be regulated by law and predicted, not who is the legal person that is registered. We don't have a registered legal face. If we had, we'd have appointed a lettering agency by the citizens, by the court and the prosecution. We don't have that. Therefore, this provision of Article 128 is closely related, but it is a constitutional category. It's not a legal category, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we can't prescribe something and mention an organ, and that organ doesn't exist at all. There's gonna be big problems here. If the promoter was referring to future time, it means that a legal person will be formed to deliver in the form of an agency, which will make the delivery. It's unreliable, it's insecure, it's risky, it opens up the possibility of corruption in the judiciary, and especially by suppliers. Imagine, please, one of the suppliers from some private agency tomorrow, whom the owner of the agency employs, receives 100 euros from the debtors, because the debtor persuades him to stay at an unknown address, this one misses the deadline and the citizen gets into a situation that he will never be able to collect his claim, because this one will always avoid, given the possibility. It's not found, it's attached to his door and such a delivery is insecure. Deliverys must be made officially under the applicable law and nothing else, as regulated by existing regulations. It opens up the possibility of corruption in the judiciary, especially by the agency and suppliers, and eventually the damage will be suffered by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7744	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Parliamentarians Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7745	We're in a better mood right now. I can't believe it, but one amendment was adopted. Article 148 refers to the costs of the procedure, I will read only the last and last position. "The court will give up carrying out the evidence if the amount necessary to settle the costs is not lodged within the time limit set by the court. In that case, in the light of all the circumstances, the Court will, in its confidence, appreciate the importance that the party has not lodged the amount necessary to settle the costs." That's just fine. "Extremely from the provision of Article 4 of this Article if the court, under official duty, determines the execution of evidence in order to determine the facts relating to the application of Article 3(3) of this Act, and the parties do not make a certain amount, the costs of carrying out the evidence will be paid out by the court's means." Our amendment consists of the following. We suggest that words be entered here, "or when the interests of a minor child are questionable." We felt that when it comes to the interests of a minor child that, even then, the court should provide for the execution of evidence, regardless of whether the costs incurred for carrying out this evidence are, so that Article 5 of this article would read: "Excludingly from the provision of the position of the 4th member if the court, under official duty, determines the implementation of the evidence to determine the facts relating to the application of Article 3(3) of this Act, or when it comes to the interests of a minor child and the parties do not lay down a certain amount, the costs for carrying out the evidence will be paid out of the means of the court". We think this is a logical trail of the general principle that minors in our right, our legislation, enjoy special protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7746	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Branislav Rankic and joint MPs Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović and Miodrag Djidic submitted amendments, in the same text, which suggest that the removal of Glava 14 and members from 176 to 180. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic, and then a National MP, Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Chapter 14. The draft law provides for a procedure for resolving the issue of legal certainty. Our amendment provides for the removal of the entire Chapter 14 of this proposal. Namely, this chapter provides that when more cases occur, courts may launch an initiative at the Supreme Court to take a position on a questionable legal issue which is of importance for the resolution of the case. Although this is how we wanted to achieve a uniformity of court practice, we believe that this will result in a delay in proceedings and that it will even create legal uncertainty. That's why the first-degree court gets certain facts and needs to interpret them to the Supreme Court. This is not about interpreting a legal rule or legal norm, but about the Supreme Court taking a stand under some circumstances that the court interprets and delivers to him. Of course, new circumstances and facts may arise later that would affect the Supreme Court’s decision to make even different decisions than it has made, without him knowing about these circumstances. The low-level courts may also be able to make a different decision, if they appear before them and different circumstances and facts, but knowing the case law, it is certain that after taking the Supreme Court's stance, first-degree courts would have a resolved case, second-degree courts would not even look at the case and the Supreme Court would not have the need to discuss it later, because it had already taken a stand. We have enough professional and trained first-degree and second-degree judges. It is necessary to maintain a regular procedure, and if the district courts find a different solution to a similar issue, which is fully considered before low-level courts, the Supreme Court is able to even the practice. That's why we suggest that this head be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7748	National MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7749	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, decapitation of Chapter XIV and members 176 to 180. The SRS sees, above all, that the legal issue that these members are being governed should practically be subject to another law, in our understanding, to the law on the regulation of courts or any other sublegal act, which cannot be processed in the proposal for this law on litigation. What do these members contain? Article 176 provides that, in the proceedings before a first-degree court, etc. There is a disputed legal issue, the first-degree court, under official duty, or party to the dispute, will launch an initiative before the Supreme Court to resolve the legal dispute. Article 177. - a request to the Supreme Court. In fact, he's saying what that request is supposed to look like, what it's supposed to contain, etc. Article 178 states that the Supreme Court is obliged to resolve the issue and deliver an opinion to a lower court within 90 days of the date of receipt. Article 179. - when the Supreme Court discusses the issue of legal issue, legal understanding of who it comes to, it delivers to the court who initiated the proceedings and publishes in the Serbian Supreme Court of Justice. Article 180. - if the Supreme Court has taken the legal view of the issue, the parties to the proceedings, which raises the same previous question, do not have the right to seek his resolution again in the ongoing case. So we think this should regulate some law, but this shouldn't be subject to the law on litigation, but first of all, to the law on the regulation of courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7750	Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7751	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the provisions of those members, mentioned earlier, were adopted in the Bill's proposal, there would be a disaster in the litigation process and our civil rights would be destroyed to the point of no longer being tried by law, but judged by the principles or principles of opinion and the views of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed solution in Article 176 is in direct conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm referring to Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where everyone has the right to protect their rights and interests in proceedings against the competent authorities and the competent court. Under this provision, it is seen that citizens are not guaranteed the right to exercise it in any other law and that it will be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The complaint, first of all, is unnecessary here. If he finds the court of law, and this doesn't lead to the efficiency of the trial, this leads to a delay in court. The lawsuits in Serbia are known to last six years and five months, on average. We will now have in practice the following situation: a large number of judges from first degree courts, i.e. municipal courts will now not know how to resolve disputes on their own and make decisions in the first degree, wherever they are not sure that their decision will remain in force. In that situation, the possibility opens, this will be the judges of the first degree court, i.e. municipal courts can't wait. Wherever they are not sure and do not know how to judge, they will refer the case to the Supreme Court, past the district court as a second-degree court and seek a legal position on a specific matter. The legal position will take the Council of the Supreme Court, in a particular case, since this is civil law, is more civil. What do we have in that case? We will have a number of cases, as did the civilian council when, in addition to the provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act, it took the principle that the Republic Public Prosecutor, in addition to the Implementing Procedure Act, could request an end to the proceedings in the executive procedure, in order to protect some legal public interest. This was done by the Civil Council of the Supreme Court of Serbia on 6 April 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is the law, it has been passed by parliament, it has been passed by a legislative authority. No one else can stand down and get out of the law. Whoever gave the three the right, four judges of the Serbian Supreme Court to turn their principled opinion into law enforcement and to allow the public prosecutor to now walk into the provisions of the Law on Executive Procedure, to interfere in the jurisdiction of other authorities, in a specific case, with regular judges. Now it's going to be a case in practice. The Supreme Court is authorized to take legal views and to give its principles of opinion and principles, but only for the sake of equating judicial practice. That is why I am calling for this principled opinion published in the Serbian Supreme Court. One newsletter - several Supreme Court judges violate the constitution, violates the Law on executive procedure, and now they will have the opportunity to open the door. What's the worst thing about this case? The worst part is that, if the first-degree court terminates the case and the case is delivered to the Supreme Court, the citizen has no right to appeal to the solution. Is that the efficiency of the court, is that the aim of the legislator? No, I don't. (President: Time. ) This will extend the length of the litigation process for months, and may be for years. Who's to blame for having a year-and-a-half of a judge hold the case in a drawer at the Court of Commerce in Belgrade and will not file a complaint with the competent court. The judge won't hold a hearing for two years. What's the problem? It's not a problem, ladies and gentlemen MPs, in law, the problem is in unprofessional judges, and the problem is there's no one to seduce the order of the judiciary. So, without a change in the Constitution and a new re-election of all judges... (President: I warn you, six minutes are up. I'm done. So without the adoption of a new constitution and without re-election of new judges, therefore, the choice of professional and capable and qualified and moral judges is not speeded up by litigation or new regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7752	The word is from the MP Slobodan Vučković, and from the MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that I do not share my opinion that, that is to say, by adopting this Chapter 14. The bill of law, there's been chaos in our judiciary, because there's one restriction here, it's said, in a number of cases if there's such a significance, then they'll be able to turn around. So, I don't really want to cause chaos, but in any case, the first-degree court should find at least three or four such cases, and that's not easy in one court, but we still suggested that this head be deleted, and why? Because we don't think it's skillful and precise enough, because first of all, you can express your suspicion that the first-degree court will present the issue to the Supreme Court. It's the first thing that's very important. The second thing, which is even more important, which of these questions will be shown in the subsequent procedure, because do not forget that it is entirely unnecessary here, in our opinion, that the first-degree court will stop the proceedings and send the case to the Supreme Court. Since one question is theoretically-legal, of course, has its practical implications on certain cases, it can easily be explained, the case is presented and the court continues to work and to carry out other evidence, to wait, because, on the other hand, because of the procedural economy, when it sends it, there are no deadlines in which the Supreme Court has to act, it is a time period which is judicial and does not oblige it and has no sanctions. The legal deadline is everything, but the legal deadlines that are judicial they keep breaking through in practice, so in fact there, don't kid yourself, because in fact there's no deadline. If the Supreme Court decides in six months what happens to the Supreme Court, nothing. Therefore, I stand at the point of view that there is no deadline. We'd better solve this whole head in a different way, Chapter 14. The bill, therefore, sets out more precisely the court's obligation, not to ask the court to submit files that he can really ask the Supreme Court a question, but to continue to work on the case in order to preserve the procedural economy. I don't know what much we would get, because I say, in the course of the trial, new issues may arise which are now banned under Article 180 to repeat in the same procedure in fact the same legal questions, will be the same, and slightly modified, so this doesn't seem like a serious solution problem. On the other hand, you have in Article 178 of the same Chapter 14, that when the Supreme Court decides to resolve this issue, it makes a decision, so there is its decision to resolve the issue in the Serbian Supreme Court's "officer" Billen. By the time it comes out, and then eventually he approaches the solution to the issue, he teaches the first-degree court of law and then says he explains his decision. It's not a decision, because the decision has already been made and explained in the Supreme Court Bilten. It should be there to explain the legal understanding, and there's not a lot of words about it, so I think the whole head is eager to force some newspaper really is one failure, and I suggest you delete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7754	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7755	It is good that the President of the Assembly felt that this was a very important amendment and was referring to a very important chapter, and the pity that he had left the session, he could hear these strong arguments. The Ministry, the Supreme Court and all the courts are facing one problem, so what to do when a large number of cases are less or more identical in front of a court and the court does not know how to apply an appropriate provision of a law. As a result of the effort to resolve the situation, and in order to be effective, this chapter has been reached, where, on the basis of a busy legal position, serially lifed judgments and thus, ensure the efficiency of the court. But this time it's wrong. This chapter should be found in the law governing courts and in the provisions of the law on judges, because it essentially regulates internal communication between the lower ones, and there are higher courts, as regards the legal position as regards the application of the relevant provisions of the material regulation. But this chapter has no place in the law on litigation, because it is contrary to the basic principles contained in the first 12 or 13 provisions of this law. What's this about? He says that when a case is brought before a first degree court, so one, in a number of cases, judges and court councils perform independently, they have no obligation to follow what a colleague in the next office judges. What it means in a number of cases, is it perhaps a dispute of 20 workers who have filed each and every one of them a lawsuit against a particular firm and the problem of one member and one law has arisen, or perhaps a thousand or two thousand, and as long as it should wait for a larger number of cases to appear. Is it supposed to wait a month, two months or a year? Maybe after a month there's a hundred items, after six months, tens of thousands of objects, and all depending on what it's about. What's he saying next? There is a need to take a position on the issue of law. I draw attention to the follow-up that follows, he says – "which is of preliminary importance for a decision", even the termology of a preliminary question is something that has been taken from criminal procedural law, something about a litigation process, which is called the previous question, but this is not a previous question. You have tried something that would be a previous issue of general importance, and it comes down to a court interpretation of the will of the legislator, because here it is undeniable to refer to an appropriate provision of the relevant law. There was a need to interpret, to establish the right of the legislator's will regarding Article 265. The bond law. On that legal basis, several thousand cases are based in front of a court. So, it is not a previous question, because the previous question arises that the court is solving a previous question in terms of whether there is a legal relationship and that the court is not in charge, but here the court is in charge, because the court is not presumption that he knows the law and that he is the only one who is authorized to interpret the will of the legislator. Where there's an individual who has the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, he's gone. He can't influence the procedure, he can't influence efficiency, because the judge has received coverage, I have five cases and I ask the Supreme Court to take a stand, to legally interpret, to give legal interpretation of the appropriate norms. The fact that a judge or a court does not know that it interprets the provision and that number, that and that material regulation, must not affect the party. So I'm saying that you move this matter to the Courts' Law and Courts' Law, because this is how you avoid fulfilling the obligation to end the trial within a reasonable period, because the court gets coverage of why it's not effective. In the follow-up to this first position, you say, 'about the case before first-degree courts', in the same attitude you speak of first-degree court in one, about a number of cases, and then enter into the multitude of first-degree courts, where there is no theoretical possibility that courts can communicate. How would the First Municipal Court in Belgrade know that similar ten cases in connection with the same member of the law exist in the Municipal Court in Nis, Kanjija or Kikindi or so on. This is a missed topic, in a missed place, these three or four provisions should be relocated to the Court Order Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7756	National MP Gašo Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7757	Mr. Minister, fellow Members, this is quite a serious question and it, of course, leads to a link that I am now not telling you Article 12, which at all introduces the previous issue in the litigation process, this whole new Chapter XIV and a member of the former 112, and now I have seen that in 115 it is an interruption of the procedure, that is, as it says here about the impasse of proceedings. But there is one other serious question, what is wanted by the head of XIV. Is it the urgency to introduce or is the intensity to interpret the law, as counterpart Krasic says, and to be some kind of cover or authentic interpretation, which is not given by the Assembly, but by someone else. The question is, what do you want? Of course, according to what you want and what you want, you can also create the text that I am here at this point is controversial. I draw your attention that if a preliminary question arises before a litigation court, very often it will be covered by a preliminary complaint or an incidental countersuit, when it comes to saying the main thing, and then we have no problem obliging everything. Then it is not only bound by that court, but also bound by all other courts in the territory of the State. A large number of cases will fit in here, because a party who wants to quickly resolve the matter will either object or use the suit, and will open up the possibility that the court has a judicial decision. Hence, the question remains in great doubt what was desired. What's the real point of this? To be clear, I now have to make a personal point, because here I stand, I have no objection to the predetermined right, or a predetermined little door being introduced into this country's legal system, but then it's loud and clear, and we'll see how the Assembly reacts. That's why I don't think the objective of these provisions is clearly clear enough, and that's why we've been brought from two parliamentary groups that, as far as I can see, we have objections that are directed at the same erasure. He wouldn't personally erase, but he won't be aware of what the target is, precisely because of these procedural instruments, which each individual party has in each litigation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7758	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7759	Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to the debate. Indeed, colleagues have the right arguments on the one hand and on the other. I'll show one different attitude from my colleagues. We have the view that it is necessary to move this part of the law into another law, and we have the view that it is unfavourable, or that it is complicated, that it will make it difficult to exercise the right and even to unconstitution. I think this is one of the key parts of the law, because it's going in the direction of efficiency of proceedings before litigation courts. We had one first-degree and second-degree Supreme Court marathon in an audit that lasted for years, just because we didn't know the legal position of the Supreme Court. We will now quickly and easily in 90 days in mass litigation receive the legal position of the Supreme Court. I think that's good. I think it's a shame that this principle of open justice is no longer represented in this law, that courts would tell the parties not only what they think about, what are the controversial facts, what evidence should be carried out, but what they think about the law they need to apply and how they apply the law. Many actions would take a lot shorter if the parties knew what the court meant about the specific matter. Since the parties, of course, do not know what the court is thinking, then many litigations are being filed only because someone has such or such an interest that the case lasts longer or shorter. This is an instrument that will enable litigation to last shorter and that will fully enable legal questions to respond to who is right and what will shorten the procedure again. That's 90 days, and for one lawsuit where two months are scheduled, three months doesn't mean anything. I don't think this is going to make this harder, that it's not constitutional, and I think that might be the best solution in this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7760	I thank the People's MP Mark Kristin. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7761	Dear People's MPs, the SRS believes that the chapter from Articles 176 to 180 should be abolished, deleted, because the bill introduces a procedure for resolving the issue of legal action, which is completely deviating from our legal system and the case law, i.e. The court president, according to Professor Gassa Knezevic, introduces the small door. That's true, but court practice is not and cannot be a source of law. Therefore, an incident or a previous question is not and must not be a question, i.e. the position of the Supreme Court. Whom is bound by the position of the Supreme Court, only that session, at which the Supreme Court stands. Therefore, it would already further degrade the judicial duty and underestimate our good judges, who only have to judge under the law. That's all the nonsense of this proposed solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7762	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7763	The government accepts this amendment, so we don't at least have to explain ourselves. Let me just say with two sentences about this one. Here's the solution to the so-called. the issue. There's talk of precedents. I ask, if you have tens of thousands of cases like that for the sake of the wars in Croatia, so you get one verdict in one way, the other in the other, what is the Supreme Court's obligation rather than even the practice? It's his obligation under the law and he has to do it. I think this is good. You still have almost 50 items waiting and standing, and individual decisions are made differently. It was a matter of whether, if the state called, it was a volunteer or not, and they don't know how to handle it. It stands, people can't get right. The Supreme Court has to resolve this because any different verdict means interpretation from that court, which is different, the Supreme Court has to even it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7764	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) This amendment was accepted by the minister, but given that the Committee did not accept it, it must be declared by the Assembly. The 214th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Makovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone in this amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7765	Article 214 treats the conditions for termination of proceedings, and so is the first condition when the party dies. First item: "When a party dies, the procedure is interrupted." The proposal of our amendment is that after the word "dead," it adds, stuck and said, "and there is no power of attorney." The DS considers that it is more cellular and faster to imprison the proceedings if the party having the power of attorney does not interrupt the procedure, but the power of attorney can continue the procedure in which it is already in place. Such a solution has been in the current law, and we do not see a reason to delete this solution for the reasons that we have been explained that this hairing of the litigation procedure has been done to speed up the process. If the procedure is accelerated, the end of the proceedings following the death of the party may only delay it until the commencement and completion of the leaven procedure, where a continuation of the procedure could take place. If the party had a power of attorney, there's no need for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7766	I thank Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. According to this amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7767	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, here's why. You say this will speed up the process, but in practice it happens exactly the opposite. Believe it or not, there are a lot of cases where lawyers represent the deceased after several years, that they build costs, that they refuse to contact the heirs, the desert procedure takes several years. This would prevent such a situation and make sure they welcome this change. There is much that we have criticised and what we have proposed, but in this way certain procedural doubts of different court practices will certainly be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7768	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. People's MP Petar Jojic came to the floor. Excuse me for a moment, Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7769	If you look at the provision of power of attorney, it says: "The power of attorney ceases with the death of the party." She doesn't have a chance to do the job for six months anymore. It's no longer worth adding when there's no more power of attorney. There's no need for this if there's a power of attorney or the death of a party to cease power, no power of attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7770	The People's Messenger is giving up, there's enough clarification. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Bosko Ristić, Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić and Milan Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7771	The DS has submitted an amendment to Article 219, which reads: "The court will stop the proceedings when it is explicitly provided for by law or when it is assessed in the course of the proceedings that it is celery". Our amendment proposes to delete the words 'or when during the procedure it is estimated to be celery'. Our amendment also proposes to delete the second position of this member, which reads: ''The Court is making a decision to suspend the procedure under official duty when it decides to stop the procedure in order to wait for the outcome of some procedural action or to provide an opportunity to take action in the process. ''We also predicted that a complaint was allowed in this article, and the promoter predicted that the complaint was not allowed. In its explanation of the bill, the Proposer states that this institution, which is the Institute of Suspension, replaces the Institute of Peace of Procedure, which achieves greater efficiency in the court. That's an explanation with the proposal we got. The suspension of the peace institutes speeds up the process, but also according to the manner and conditions needed to stop the proceedings, it can be seen that these two institutes are not in any kind of relationship. We are witnessing that often because of the sloppyness of work, perhaps for some other reasons that are even less acceptable than sloppyness, some actions have been unwarranted for many years, even decades. The proposed solution gives the court the possibility that, using the procedural rules that the law gives him, through the institutes of stopping the proceedings, he has been conducting the proceedings inexplicably for a long time, without the possibility of parties affecting it. This team before the proposed solution allows the court, for the same reasons, to make an unlimited number of times a solution for stopping the proceedings, always setting some new time for how long that deadline should take. That's why we suggested that our amendment be adopted to speed up the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7772	Thank you. The People's Messenger Slobodan Vukovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7773	There's something I'd like to say about when the proceedings are lifted. In general, this law tends, and that is its weakness, to introduce investigative principles and coherent regulations into a civil character law and actually end party disposition. Please, Article 219 states that the court will by law, or when the court finds that it is complete, and there is no such thing as we have suggested - on a unanimous proposal by the parties. Please, as far as the state is concerned, what if the two parties, who are in the litigation procedure, decide to terminate the proceedings for a period of two years? What harms who, and why is this party's disposition at stake? It's absolutely not clear. That's why we're suggesting he can -- on a unanimous proposal by the parties. There's no need for anyone to express some sort of surprise, some kind of fear, or that it's some kind of court burden. We have addressed the court, we think that our relations will be smoothed in a year and we ask the court to wait with the procedure - that's one thing. Another solution that is totally unacceptable and which introduces the principles here, as I say, of this directive procedure, that there is no right to appeal against the decision to suspend the proceedings. Please, why doesn't he have the right to appeal? Because he says - the court can do it under the law. If he's misapplying the law, he's entitled to appeal. If it is all the same for some procedural misunderstandings to be removed in another procedure, he has the right to appeal. Maybe the court was wrong. Why wouldn't it be a real complaint? Now it's the opposite case, we from the party have an interest in the process, and I said a moment ago – we have no interest, we want to repay it, now we have an interest, to make it as soon as possible. And if such a solution comes to court, then he must have the right to appeal. Why is the appeal being denied here? These aren't good solutions, and they need to be fixed in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7774	People's MP Petar Jojic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 219. The proposal for a law whose provisions stipulate that the court will stop the proceedings when the law is laid down, or when it assesses in the course of the proceedings that it is complete, while the position of the fourth member regulates that no appeal can be made against that decision to suspend the proceedings, is contrary to the provisions of Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Member shall prescribe that the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which is resolved on the right of the party and on a law-based interest, contrary in particular to the recommendations of the Council of Europe under the R-95/5 on the introduction and improvement of appeal procedures in civil and commercial matters. Ladies and gentlemen, this is directly contrary to the Council of Europe's recommendation. What do we do now? We want to go to Europe, we've been to Europe, now we're running from Europe when we need to apply its standards. Now we're inventing a possibility, allowing manipulation to be conducted by a first-degree and audit court, so the question arises...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7776	Mr. Jojic, I'd like to ask them to return your card to your unit so you don't have to discuss it and you're not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7777	The card's right here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7778	It wasn't inserted into the unit, that's how it shows the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7779	It's in, see, go check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7780	On the monitor it's very precise, here I am looking, and I'd like to ask you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7781	Maybe it's moved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7782	She is now, but when I warned her, she wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7783	Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises – what to do in this case, if it is an interruption of proceedings, and the citizen cannot say what he thinks and cannot complain. Whether such a solution contributes to the faster exercise of the rights of our citizens or allows individual interests to be realised through a judicial institution, interferes with the basic constitutional principle set out in Article 22(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that everyone has the right to equal protection of their rights in proceedings against the court and other state bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the provisions of Article 95. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that courts protect the freedoms and rights of citizens, lays down the rights and interests of legal entities and provides for constitutionality and legality and that courts judge under the Constitution and laws and other general acts, so Article 219 of this bill is harmful to our citizens. It makes it impossible for our citizens to exercise their rights effectively and in time. What should a citizen do when a judge who is in charge of a lawsuit terminates proceedings under Article 219? It's a bill of law, and the appeal is not allowed. What do we do now? The Constitution guarantees citizens the right to appeal, and this bill does not allow citizens to declare a complaint against a decision to terminate the proceedings, pursuant to Article 219(4) of the Law. And he can't even ask for an exemption from that judge, if the judge has repeatedly requested an end to the proceedings under Article 69(2), so the citizen is left without being able to protect his rights, and in practice it is well known that the presidents of the courts are primarily protecting the judge and not the rights of citizens. This is how the Supreme Court behaves in some cases, when it takes legal views and principles. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on the Minister of Justice to explain to the MPs and citizens of Serbia whether the proposed provisions of this bill are in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and whether such solutions will speed up or drastically slow down the conduct of the litigation procedure before the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about obstructions within the very litigation procedure that was brought into this proposal. What I want to talk about further is the real disaster because it is an attempt to take over the legislative authority by the executive authority, and through some judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which should be carried out by individual judges of the Supreme Court, and in fact the warrants are lower courts, when the Serbian Supreme Court bypasses the law with its legal views and transforms its views into law. I cited one example, when on 29 June 2004, the Supreme Court of Serbia adopted a position in a civil department and said that the court could postpone the execution on a reasoned proposal by the Republic Public Prosecutor, under the condition of the article. 17 and 18. Public prosecutor's law. Please, this is not a constitutional category, nor is this a category that is legally foreseen, that someone can walk past the law in the provisions of the law, violate the legal order and harm the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7784	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Please listen to me and respect the weather. Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7785	It is not a good solution in the bill, and this amendment practically makes this bad solution worse. And, now, if you don't accept the amendment because you think it's not good, then I have to tell you that what you stated in article 219 is not good either. In paragraph 1, you state that the stasis will take place in those cases prescribed by this law. This is the case from Articles 176 to 180 when the proceedings are halted pending the legal position of the Supreme Court on a legal issue, and the second situation, when stopped, is when in the course of the first-degree proceedings the court allows mediation between litigation parties. So what you're saying - when a court under official duty thinks it's celery, it doesn't mean anything. But what you stated in Section 2 that the court is making a solution to a standstill in the procedure of official duty when it decides to stop the procedure, so it makes a solution when it decides to make a decision, to wait for the outcome of some procedural action, and I don't know what procedural action you mean. If you're referring to a complaint about a solution, there are a series of provisions that indicate that the appeal does not delay the execution. If you are referring to a delaying appeal, it is in that norm that it prevents further court action. What you further say is 'or to give you the opportunity to take some action in the process'. All the court does is provide, provide objective opportunities for all parties to use their procedural rights, have the opportunity to discuss, prove, confirm, etc. What makes this version of your impasse deserve attention is that it's essentially a standstill, but without consequences. If we take the first case of impasses when there is a legal position of the Supreme Court, I must draw your attention that it is also possible in the case of the Supreme Court that, according to some current practice, the three judges believe that a legal position should be passed, i.e. an interpretation of some of the provisions of the material regulation. It turns into some form, a session is scheduled, judges are informed, there's a vote and the job is done. It makes no difference after two months that some other three Supreme Court judges on the same issue also take a legal stand, told colleagues in the Supreme Court, raise their hands, and then we have several legal positions. I'd like to draw your attention to the changing legal views of the Supreme Court regarding jurisdiction. This was justified in 2001 and 2002 by the adoption of a new law on the regulation of courts and a significantly different regulation of jurisdiction, so it continued to apply practically the Law on Courts in those jurisdictional provisions over a long period of time. There has been a real confusion between the jurisdiction of municipal courts and trade courts when legal persons appear in different types of legal disputes. Then we had a situation that between the public enterprise and the SRS the dispute over the futility of the contract was being held in the Fourth Municipal Court, and that the same dispute between the Vračar municipality and their public enterprise and the SRS municipal board in Vračar was being brought before the trade court. As you can see, the basics, the subject, all the same and different courts. Those are the legal views. How someone thinks they guarantee independence and independence of the judiciary, so they're part of the judiciary and judges, if they think they're bound by the legal views of the Supreme Court. I'm saying they have a binding...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7786	Mr. Krasic, time. I thank you for your understanding. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7787	I must admit that although Mr Krasic is mostly clearly expressing his views, I failed to understand him this time. Therefore, the essence of this amendment is that we can stand in the process and on a unanimous proposal by the parties and that we have the right to appeal when the court decides to stand by. Mr Krasic says there are cases where the Supreme Court's legal position is awaited. It is possible that, when the Supreme Court's legal position is to be awaited, that on one case alone, the court is seeking the Supreme Court's position. In that case, we have the right to appeal that he did not apply the law well. As far as the law is concerned, we must have the right to appeal, that is, when we feel that the law is not well applied. Therefore, it is the fact that the parties have the right to terminate the proceedings, to stand by the procedure and that there is a right to appeal in the proceedings. That's all this amendment foresees. There have been speeches about various other issues, but it's not really about this amendment. In the application of the law, it is possible for the court to make a mistake, so that the appeal is necessary, that it is necessary to allow the appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7788	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The basis for calling in breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7789	Mr. Vukkovic didn't understand me very well. What's this about? Mr Vuckovicu, the 1st position regulates these cases when the law recognises the possibility of stopping, but any solution that the court would have made and decided to stop the procedure and determine in that solution the date on which the suspension of the proceedings is valid is the solution managed by the litigation. There's no need for a special complaint, a right to a special appeal. If this is something illegal and represents a relatively significant breach of the litigation procedure, there is a possibility that a complaint against the verdict may be made on this basis. So that's covered, but it's unacceptable that on a proposal from the parties, the proceedings are delayed. I'm telling you about it, because if the parties can manage, if they need to seek mediation, then it's the first situation that's already legally covered and regulated in this attitude. Then you don't need a party proposal. It is already contained in this because there was a legal reason when, under official duty, the proceedings were suspended. If we are looking for efficiency, and then we give the parties the right to request during the proceedings a delay in the hearing or even a delay in the proceedings for a certain or more indefinite period of time taught to some lawyers, then the purpose is lost. Why are we passing the law? Then don't change. Then let's leave it alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7790	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic, although I have not heard the basis for reporting to the Rules of Procedure, but if he has helped us to clarify it well. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7791	The amendment submitted by the applicants, the amendment in paragraph 1, requires that instead of saying "when in the course of the procedure, it is estimated that it is celery" to be replaced by the words "in agreement with the proposal of the parties". To delete attitude 2 and then to point 4 instead of saying "no special appeal" to replace it with the words "a special appeal is allowed". The amendments themselves to paragraph 1 and to paragraph 4 are contradictory and unsustainable. I don't know what the promoter meant, but he didn't see that fundamental illogicality, because when he asks to stop the procedure on a unanimous party proposal, what then will appeal when the parties have agreed. Then the appeal is completely illusory.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7792	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 247 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to Article 247. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft law on litigation procedure was submitted by Mr. Momir Markovic, and this amendment requires that we, Mr. Minister, in Article 247 paragraph 2 "And if he refuses to testify afterwards, he can close it. The prison lasts until the witness agrees to testify or his hearing becomes unnecessary, but for the longest month. "is deleted. Namely, what's this about? Article 247 regulates that a witness who is properly called and does not come to the hearing or his absence is not justified or, without approval and justifiable reason, removed from the place where he is to be heard, the court may order that the costs of bringing him and may punish him with 30.000,00 dinars. We have nothing against it, and we believe that there should be certain mechanisms that will affect discipline and witnesses, that they come in neatly and respond to the court's call, which is necessary, anyway, in order for the processes to be completed. First of all, I think the problem is in practice. Never, as much as I've had practice, even though it's a rare punishment for a witness, it's never really been charged. There's only a certain punishment here for a witness to be intimidated and possibly appear in court to give his testimony. So that punishment was never really carried out in action. If even this fine is not carried out, then it is extremely debatable whether we can leave the court's authority to a witness who refuses to testify to a decree and detention that may take up to 30 days, rather than having to bear in mind that the law also ruled against the court allowing a witness who refuses to testify temporarily until he gives his testimony. It is inadmissible that in a litigation procedure, which nevertheless protects rights that are far less important than rights protected in criminal proceedings, the court has available such opportunities. So we still need to monitor the development of rights. If this is lifted in criminal proceedings, then it must certainly be terminated in a litigation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7794	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I expected this amendment to be accepted, because it is simply unlikely to remain this proposed legislative solution, where Article 247 paragraph 2 says: "If a witness comes and is warned of the consequences, deny testimony or answer to a particular question, and the court considers that the reasons for the denial are unwarranted, it can punish him with a fine of up to 30.000,00 dinars, and if he refuses to testify afterwards, he can close him down". This is unacceptable and incredible, that it can remain in this law. As counterpart Sarovic said earlier, it is unacceptable in this way to regulate the obligation of witnesses when it comes to criminal proceedings, and in litigation procedures cannot be regulated in this way. The truth is that it is necessary to find a way to provide witnesses, but it is also known how witnesses are provided in the case, in which witnesses are proposed. It's just that there are no situations where only one witness is important in a lawsuit, because it's always possible for more witnesses to appear in the same circumstances. I don't see the interest in being forced to testify. If someone has even proposed to be a witness in a lawsuit on a legal matter, and if that person does not want to testify, he can come to court and say that he knows nothing about these circumstances, which is the same as that he cannot testify. There's something else interesting here. Col. Momir Markovic suggested saying, "And if he refuses to testify afterwards, he can shut him down. The prison lasts until he agrees to testify or until his hearing becomes unnecessary, but for the longest month," they are wiped out. I'm asking you, if there was a solution left in the bill, since prison is scheduled for the longest month, what happens if that month goes by and you fail to convince that witness to testify? What you've been holding him for free, you've been painting for nothing, as our people would say. How do you think you force a witness in prison to convince, I don't know what term to use, that he comes to testify? You might think, like at the time of "Sabre" action, that these witnesses should be put bags of leeches on their heads. What made the need for someone to be held in prison in litigation to testify that the neighbor had crossed that border, and it was not over what the opposite party claims. Of course, I don't demean litigation, cases in litigation, but in this way to provide witnesses, I think it's unacceptable. Indeed, there remains an open question, if you don't convince witnesses to testify with those bags and leeches, then why did you keep him in prison and in what way will you replace that witness? Also, the 6th position of the same member has been foreseen for eradication, and concerns military officials and police officers and says they cannot be closed, but their refusal to testify will be reported by their command, for punishment. This is a violation of basic human rights. How can a commander punish a police officer for telling his neighbor that he won't testify in the event of his fight with another neighbor outside the bar? My people, this is really unacceptable and amazing that it can stay like this. Then goes the rest of this attitude and says, "If it is necessary for these persons to be brought in for testimony, they will address the court of their elders who will order them to be brought to court." It's not a military person or a police officer who owns his own elder, that he can just bring him in. If he's to be brought in and if that's what the procedure requires... (President: may I ask you to bring an end after you've exceeded your time? )......................................................................................................... Then you know how to bring her in. Mr. Chairman, I'm finishing up, but you didn't take care of it either. You took me a minute, as much as I quoted both the member and the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7796	According to the Rules of Procedure, it's all within five minutes. The quote only applies to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, when it comes to topics and amendments, it does not apply. To read: (Read article) That's when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7797	Mr. Angelkovic, it is not in the spirit of your decades-long democratic action on the political scene of Serbia to interrupt speakers in their presentation, especially when it comes to such an important amendment, and it is about prison. In order to accept Mr Momir Markovic's amendment, the People's MP, I need to inform you of something or remind you of those who were MPs in the previous meeting and of you who may not have paid attention to it, in parallel to following the current law on litigation, that this article has been copied from the previous Law on a litigation procedure. Only the amount of punishment here has been increased. In 2002, when Vladan Batic was a minister and on the agenda there were amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution, almost in the same text, he submitted an amendment to that member of the law and it would be good for Minister Stojkovic to show good faith and accept this amendment, because he did not exist in a criminal case either. You know, Minister, you know how long I can, due to court's impeccableness, and all sorts of other reasons to continue litigation. You know very well, as well as fellow MPs who are lawyers, those who worked in the field of justice, and we know that from our ordinary lives, that people have an aversion to courts, especially in cases where they call for witnesses. Isn't it enough, and we didn't ask, or colleague Markovic, to delete it with an amendment, to keep this increased fine of 30,000 dinars. Then even those who are reluctant to do so will have to respect such a decision by the court to appear as witnesses, not to stand such a provision. It is truly terribly formulated in this article of the law, where it is said that "the prison lasts until the witness agrees to testify", be careful what form it is, and really anything can come to mind that someone will keep him in the light 24 hours, direct the lamp, or what counterpart Radeta said to put a bag on his head, imagine, because of a lawsuit and because he doesn't appear as a witness, and then he goes on to say, "or until his hearing becomes unnecessary, but for the longest time in a month." So, in order to really correct this provision, that is, this member of the law, you need to accept the amendment of counterpart Momir Markovic, which is something the SRS has been insisting on since the beginning. So that's what we asked for two years ago, we're looking for and now, and that's just proof more that we in our efforts to propose laws and their final form through amendments, or whatever you want, so to improve, until we are, and that will be very soon, in a position to deliver, as a government, laws from this and from other areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7798	I thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic for contributing to the clarification of this amendment, which is why I have allowed the People's MP, Verica Radeta, to speak for more than five minutes, because there have been 30 seconds. The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, just like this in the sending atmosphere, the court may appoint a witness to prison for up to 30 days and that he has no right to appeal. Since the witness, as a rule, does not have the right to a lawyer, but comes alone at the subpoena of the court, so there is no professional defense at the time when the court is given the right to grant him a prison because he does not want to testify to the facts which, in the court's view, he knows. That this provision is against the constitution and that, contrary to the standards of European law, European democratic standards, it also says that no legislation in Europe provides that a citizen can be sentenced to prison unless a criminal procedure, which must be two-stage, is previously conducted, with the right to appeal which is suspensive and devolved. This means the right to appeal and delay the execution and it is decided by the second degree, by another court from the one who made the decision in the first degree. I agree with the amendment that certain views of this member are deleted because I consider this to be an anti-civilization norm. That is why I again urge Minister Stojkovic to make a written statement to the assembly that the bill is in accordance with European law. This is the commitment we have made by adopting the Resolution on European Integrations. What kind of situation is possible in a lawsuit? You have parties that argue with each other, which are not obliged to testify when the court calls them. So the party who sues is not bound by Article 267 of this law to respond, so I mean the court's call and to give his testimony to the court. On the other hand, the same party may insist on a witness testifying before the court even if it has denied a testimony to impose a prison sentence against him for up to 30 days. In addition, military officials and police officers cannot come under the influence of this provision, thus putting these persons, as Serbian citizens, in a position of privilege over those who do not have a military personality or a member of the police. I expected the minister of justice to show from which constitutional authority he took the right to make such proposals, but we didn't get an explanation. The only explanation I got on the board was that the witness could complain, but he could complain for very narrow reasons, which is if he felt that he was injured by the right to deny the answer to certain questions that his or her family household members could make a mockery, severe shame, significant material damage or criminal persecution. On the one hand, he can deny the answer, because he can be prosecuted, and for that sort of thing, he's being punished by a litigator who says you're going to jail for 30 days. Just imagine, I've already set this up as an example, a peasant from some remotest village who has to testify to his uncle or nephew who's arguing about the border, and he's an heir to them, and he's afraid that his border won't be compromised and he says, I can't testify because I'm afraid you'll take some of my property too. Already, that poor man or poor man can go to jail for 30 days, only because he's willing to listen to him after a while. On the other hand, the party that initiated the procedure is not required to give a statement as a party at the invitation of the court. That is, therefore, cynicism by the proposings, on which the citizens of this country are put in an unequal position before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7800	I thank Bosca Ristic. The word has the minister of justice Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7801	I think it's for the public, and also for the correctness of things, say something. A law on litigation that was last amended in March 1998. She could have changed this provision. That provision remains until today. I will read it, since it is from that law: "When the court considers that the reasons for the denial are unwarranted, it can punish it with a fine of 300 dinars, and if it refuses to testify afterwards, it can shut it down. The prison lasts until the witness agrees to testify or until his hearing becomes unnecessary, but for the longest month." It's completely identical. So, no law has been changed here with our proposal, only the provision of the previous law has been transposed. The previous MP asked me, who gives me the right, but I'm not the promoter, he's the government, and I'm reporting on behalf of the government. I can't give him a certificate, because it would be a unique case for someone to get a certificate in this country by the state to put a bill here. What surprises me, he says, where he has it, and there are penalties for contempt of the court and all the countries punish, just for the record. I especially want to point out here, because my previous colleague is constantly referring to some of Europe's standards, and I would ask him to take them and look at them, let him look at the last monitoring, and let him look at the expert opinion of the Council of Europe. Still, it's not my turn to read it to him, he can read it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7802	I thank Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Bosko Ristic, replica or according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7803	Mr. Secretary mentioned my discussion without mentioning my name, but I know it refers to me, because I am his predecessor who spoke for this speaker. The EU prescribes that no criminal proceedings may impose prison sentences except in criminal proceedings. Even the Law of Infractions must no longer contain provisions in which prison sentences are imposed. It has to be some kind of criminal procedure, first of all, with verbal delicacies. Even criminal law in Europe excludes the possibility of sentences of prison. It is not possible, as provided for in this law, to replace fines with prison sentences for up to ten days, because they are considered debt slavery. Someone is in debt and goes into slavery to an individual, but such a relationship can also be with the regime, or to the state. So these are the standards of Europe. If some lobby groups, which provided funding for reforms in the judiciary, sought justification for 15m euros spent, which were invested in judicial reform and the legal system, and recognized in this legislative project a good basis for this, this does not mean that Europe has also supported the content and essence of this law. Someone here has said that these are laws prescribed by some of our lawyers or legal experts from Europeans, but although that is the case, then these foreign language interpreters have incompletely or inconsistencies overlapped some legal norms, essence, meaning and purpose of the law from the EU, and translated into this legal project that is anti-civilization exactly according to this norm which is the backbone of the indemnity of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7804	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7805	The fact that you said you couldn't get the law enforcement authorities to impose sentences is true, but because they're not a court, and Europe says the court can impose a sentence. He doesn't say either litigious or criminal, but the court has the right to sentence him. It's one thing, and another thing, don't speak at least inaccuracy. We didn't rewrite this from Europe. I'm going to read to you again the law that was in force in your time, and I'm just saying that no one has prescribed that law from some Europe. On the contrary, it was in our law. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to Ristic, because he says it's prescribed by some of the regulations of European and some of the laws of Europeans. No, that was in the previous law. Only a provision of the previous law, since it was considered no need to change, was transferred to this one. There was no copying, no foreign regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7806	Anyone else want a word? Zoran Krasic is a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7807	Now it's been confirmed that it's about the reform money, and whoever was doing this bill, he was making some kind of a combination. It's a good thing we hear now that something that looks like NGOs takes money from abroad and offers some of these solutions, but this law on litigation that hasn't been changed for a long time had one of the principles, which is the principle of material truth. It was a completely wrong principle, because if there's a material, there's an immaterial, there's a formal, informal, and I guess the truth is one thing. But, well, within that concept of a socialist self-government society and that it is the court that has to discuss everything, and that the parties here only make some suggestions that the court can accept but does not have to, and the court of Malta does not lead by official duty, then there was some justification for a witness who would not testify being detained until he spoke. But times must have changed. I guess they've changed, we've commended Article 7, where there's a promotional principle, where parties provide evidence, the court doesn't provide by official duty, except by means of its authority that someone who hides something or what the party can't provide, he has to deliver, and especially the court's right when it comes to the provision of Article 3(3), which you also held back, but you shouldn't have kept. You should have in Article 3(3) to keep only 'against coercion' and 'public morality and order' doesn't mean anything at all. We can't let the witness close. Whether he's a witness to the prosecution party or the defendant's side, they need to decide whether the witness accepts to be a witness, whether he can be, whether he can't. Secondly, in the practice of our courts, 5-6 witnesses end everything, cancel every correction, every factual state, so we laugh, but that's right. Five mounted witnesses all end up in our court today. That's our truth, that's our fact. Why close someone up? Can we, by closing down, make sure he tells the truth? Not if the proposed witness can defend himself? I don't know. I didn't see it. Here, for every event where two people are present, to ask them what happened, what happened, you'll get fewer or more two different stories. Not to raise the issue of truth in litigation and criminal proceedings. We find it totally illusory to hold something like this, even as a potential threat. We must not, by law, frighten the citizens, threaten them. It's better to do something else, probably have a basis for remaining a fine, if someone's making it impossible to get to the truth, but to lock a man up just because he was a witness, which may be some judge who doesn't want to testify, and that man may not even have seen it. We think we should go a little further, ahead of Europe, since we've always been ahead of Europe when it comes to law, to show Europe that we shouldn't arrest witnesses, bring them in. If that's the way it is in Europe, and I trust Bolet, because he has experience since he worked in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7808	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 274 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovanovic. With this amendment, we asked that in the first position of Article 274 the word "judgment" be replaced by the words "President of the Council". What's this about? This is the first member to describe the preparation of the main debate and say the court is preparing a main debate after the lawsuit is received. Preparations for the main debate shall cover a preliminary examination of the case, the delivery of the complaint to the defendant for reply, the maintenance of the preparatory hearing and the appointment of the main debate. When it is said that the court is preparing a main debate, it is quite imprecise. The court as a notion is very abstract. So, the court, we know for ourselves, makes up a lot of people, of the employees on the counter, of the judge's interns, of the expert associates, of the judge, of the judge's president, of the court's deputy president, of the court's secretary and of many others who work in court. If this formulation remains – the court may ask the question – which of these persons is authorised to perform these actions that precede the appointment, i.e. preceding the main debate. Is it going to be any judge, is it possible that any judge will take the case and drop the lawsuit, is it possible to take and make an appointment, or is it just going to be one? We know what kind of organization the courts are. When the lawsuit comes to court, it is distributed into the work of a judge. There will always be one judge, and from that moment on, only he is authorized to dismiss the suit and to carry out a preliminary examination of the suit, to submit an action on how neat it is, to request that the action be settled and to schedule a hearing or if the preparatory hearing is not necessary, to determine the time when the main debate will be held and to call witnesses, parties and any other persons to attend. This is one precision, a formulation. Instead of the court, the president of the council will thus clearly distinguish who can act. This already exists in practice, and I don't see the reason that when the law is already passed, that in detail, this picture that already exists in life, is not passed into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7810	I thank the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 275 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 276 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 277 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7811	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 277. The draft law on a litigation procedure which reads: ''After a previous examination of the case, the court is authorised to submit a solution under Article 279 of this Act, if it is not about issues which, if necessary and the nature of the matter or the provisions of this law, can only be passed in the course of the proceedings. "I have asked the amendment to this article to replace the word 'judgment' in this article with the words ''President of the Council', because in this provision it is necessary to specify precisely who in the name of the court has the power to adopt a resolution from Article 279 which regulates the adoption of a solution which rejects the complaint. Imagine the situation as provided for in this Article of the Proposal for Law, Judges authorised to adopt a solution referred to in Article 279. The rejection of the case, the case, which is not timely and there is no legal interest in the prosecutor's plea agreement, etc., without knowing who does it on behalf of the court. Whether the president is a bigger, individual judge, or a third, it is very important to know who the judge is and who in the name of the court is empowered to make such solutions affecting the fate of citizens and the exercise of their rights. That is why I asked this amendment to specify that this would be the President of the Council, in order to remove inaccuracy in the proposal for this law, because it is a very important procedural law whose provisions must be brief, clear, unambiguous, so as not to cause a misunderstanding of those who apply, courts and parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7812	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? National MP Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the solutions offered by the Government and represented by Minister Stojkovic are absolutely unclear, because when it is said that the court is making decisions in accordance with the provisions of this law, it is not clear whether the individual or president will do so, as proposed in this amendment, or whether it means that outside the debate the whole court will have to meet, that decisions on these issues will be taken. If we wanted efficiency in the course of action, if we wanted to be cheap and make as economical adjudication as possible, then it had to be said in this provision who was authorized to make these decisions, whether the judge was an individual when he was authorised under the law to lead the whole procedure, or the president was higher in cases where some cases were subject to three-member jurisdiction. This is where the law remains inconclusive, so I'm afraid it will in practice cause confusion. This will also cause the appeal as an emergency legal remedy for decisions made by the president bigger than the whole council, so it will come to a standstill in the context of Chapter 14's provision that the Supreme Court declares a legal position on such issues for the territory of Serbia as a result of the lack of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7814	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment under Article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the case in question, Article 278, where it is defined that, when the case is found to be incomprehensible or incomplete, or that there are shortcomings concerning the capacity of the prosecutor or the defendant to be parties to the case, or deficiencies in the legal representation of the party, or deficiencies relating to the authority of the representative to initiate the case, where such authorisation is required. In order to remove these shortcomings, the court will take the necessary measures provided for in this law. You've already heard a lot of arguments that this is incorrectly defined, that the court will remove the shortcomings and take the necessary measures. I think it's necessary to define and specify who can do it in the name of the court, whether the employees, whether or not a particular judge. What is defined by the amendment of the SRS is that instead of the court being the president of the council, because only he can be competent to adopt a certain definition in a timely and timely manner of how this litigation should be handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-03-0.u7816	I thank Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanovic. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I find that we are done with Article 278. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue with article 279. I thank you again for your understanding.
