ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10031	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum in the hall that, in addition, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Stanisa Stevanović, Gordana Komic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Act on the arrival of the City (continuing the common principled search with 11, 12, 13, 14 and 16 points) We continue the joint principled search on 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 16 points of the agenda – the draft law amending the Law on income tax on citizens, the Law on property taxes, the Law on excise duties, the fiscal registers, the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia and the tax on non-life insurance premiums. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted all parliamentary groups, except the Democratic Party and the SPO-New Serbia. I give my word to the MP Rajko Baralic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these few laws will support the SPS for several reasons, and several things in the proposed solutions will be criticised. Mr Joca Todorovic, the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, is in charge of criticism. I'll say a few things that matter. We will support the ever-increasing burden of taxpayers. This should also result in a higher collection of certain tax obligations, a higher procedure. What I'm saying is that the introduction of a fiscal register or a fiscal register, apart from order, has brought great anxiety to a number of people who do private work. I'm taking this opportunity, I've been asked by some people who have justifiable reasons, justified interference in one direction that's the opposite of what we're up against here, because there's no minister I don't know if anyone can answer me, is it possible that someone who first started the STR for two months doesn't have to introduce a fiscal register? If that's true, is it possible that he can reregister six times over the year, every time with a new name str and no fiscal register for a whole year. The gents of Chakotay who asked me to say this have data that are very precise. I don't use a pay phone to say their names or names to companies that abuse this regulation. If they do, they'll file for themselves. It's not my role to rat on someone here. My role is to point to the problem and, if that is the problem, we have unrealistic competition. I was told this way -- these gentlemen sell cheaper than we get. If that's true, it's a big problem. Smuggling, which can significantly endanger the functioning of various systems in the country, this way gets air and can be a number of people who are illegally involved in the business of letting go of life. I believe that it is necessary to do everything possible to bring the conditions of submission to all economic operators to the level that guarantees above all that everything works in accordance with the law and that they pay the obligations that the state expects them to do. On the other hand, I want to put this more like a dilemma and less like a request or criticism. All these people, who deal with those services that are called off-peer sales, or what names they already have, are mostly people from a special social mile, people who have lost their jobs in some of the fast-track and uncritically privatised enterprises. They tried to provide themselves and their family with existence by selling or reselling goods, mostly flea markets. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary explained what needs to be done about it. I also think that this story will save the big fish, and that those people who have only a day and a piece will be threatened, that the functioning of their families will be compromised in this way, but it remains to be seen how this thing will work in the future. Also, I'd like to point out this problem involving cigarettes, excises. I am going back to the previous problem and I want to say with full responsibility, even though I am not a lawyer or finance minister or this government, to correct in this way one intention that the previous government and the previous finance minister had. The conditions under which the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje were privatised were contrary to economic logic, contrary to laws, all the needs of one society and one state. I remind you once again that the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje are privatized as follows. That the former Finance Ministry, Mr Bozidar Djelic, has provided ideal conditions for the monopoly functioning of future owners of these two factories. I recall that the fiscal capacity of the tobacco industry at that time was one billion, that the owners of the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje received practically a monopoly on the cigarette market in Serbia, that there is a guarantee that in 2005, there is no new license, a new factory, and that, in that definition, what a domestic cigarette provides is ideal conditions and guarantees to those who bought two factories in vain, in a way that is completely opposite to economic logic, that here in a few months it earns, in an illegal way, everything it has invested in these two factories. I think we should point to this kind of privatisation every time. Our political ideal wasn't that kind of privatisation. That kind of privatisation is harmful. It still has adverse consequences for Serbian citizens, according to Serbia's budget, by tobacco producers, by all budget users, for all citizens of Serbia, and it is therefore important that all legal mechanisms, through such and similar laws, correct such procedures, although certain things cannot be corrected absolutely, because the matter is resolved in the way I described here. I also want to say that I did not understand from all these laws and from some others how in Serbia so-called taxation. Catalogical sales. I remind you that a huge number of large systems, multinational companies, sell different products on the Serbian market. It's mostly cosmetics, technicals, special devices, preparations. It's so-called. sales at home address, via presentations and other means. It's about one-off financial assets. There is absolutely no control over the entry of such goods, there is no tax charge, there is no statement of excise stamp, there is no talking of any revenue that the state is making. There's only one speech about a pyramidal system to enrich a number of people, I don't want to mention company names, they're well-known to you. Some of them funded the DOS election campaign with more than 100 million dollars, and today they do the same job in Serbia, while on the other hand they are asked by a small seller for the liquor stand to pay the excise on a kilo of honey, on a liter of brandy and on everything else. That's not fair, that's not correct. We're supposed to have the strength to tell you what this is all about. Then, I point out another problem, the traffic of mobile phones. There are several million mobile phone numbers in this country and there are only about 100,000 legally imported devices serving mobile phones. All other appliances, their retail price, mostly on black, are about 100, 150 to 300 euros in Serbia, are practically imported in boat cabins, in truck cabins, in suitcases and in various other ways. I pray and appeal that all those who have powers recognize first of all the budget income in what I'm saying, find the instruments to tax it, find the instruments and capture and bring in the justice of those who do, those who do this illegal work, and that we all benefit from it, and that only the wealth chain of certain people who do everything they do in a way that is not legal. We see this, we look at it for a few years, and I think we have a commitment, as people who recognize different interests and different behaviours, to say it here and to fight it, if we already have a intention, and I hope it is indisputable, that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is filled evenly, legally, and that it serves Serbian citizens the way the government has designed it and how citizens have it as their need for one year. There's a whole bunch of other things. The SPS will support this package of laws, but we insist that on these issues that we have talked about do as much as necessary to correct it. If not, we'll ask a whole series of MPs questions, let them be very unpleasant, and therefore I ask that these things be regulated. It is not normal today for about 100,000 people in Serbia to live on a catalogical sale without paying anyone anything. Neither pays for its pension and disability insurance, nor social security, nor the state collects taxes, nor the state can collect customs duties on goods that enter in this way. Do we have the strength to say stop? These are the ones who make glass palaces across Serbia, who allegedly have a whole series of companies, a whole series of special benefits in Serbia, do these jobs the way I described them, and I ask all those who have the strength to oppose it, because I think it's quite clear what this is all about. Otherwise, we will not have the moral right to oppose someone who sells a pair of jeans on the stand in the Boulevard of Revolution or elsewhere, although it is impossible for someone to exercise their right to someone else's right, but it exists in what we do, I hope, and the elemental morality that we are obliged to respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10033	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10034	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it seems that this government and finance minister are increasingly reading the amendments that the SRS MPs have submitted when these laws were already in the process, and through amendments and amendments to the law are actually passing amendments to the SRS that they did not adopt at the time. However, happiness would have been if they had stopped at it, as well as some of their ideas in principle some of their tax laws were able to corrupt; even for this speaker there are quite a number of false things to say. The first part of the story, that this is in many ways a marketing move, is when the finance minister releases agricultural value added tax producers, if they give their products to an independent trade shop, etc. However, it continues to avoid saying that someone would be exempt from value added tax must be registered, at least as an entrepreneur. If we take into account what our individual agricultural producers are, that these are small households with small working areas, and with all those costs that the registration of entrepreneurs draws behind them, such a claim is without any serious basis. When it comes to this law on the reporting of property, there I noticed one illogicality, where the minister does not follow his earlier laws, so let's say a person who does not report or does not exactly account for the tax, on any basis of any income, should pay a fine of two to ten times. So where he does some work and makes money is punishment two to ten times, and now on property, something that's been acquired for generations, if he doesn't report or report in accordance with the law, he has to pay two to 20 times, with those other sanctions that are criminal. Excise release, when it comes to fuel for agricultural producers, is fine. Our agriculture is in one difficult financial situation, because of what's been happening to us, but I don't understand why the excise fuel on construction machines is being released. I would fully understand that it is a matter of serious work in this country on infrastructure, making roads, making bridges, developing infrastructure, making apartments. However, because of the desire for the minister to say that, by worrying and reducing excise duties on fuel used for construction machinery, the value of the apartments will fall is the biggest error. Today's investors, when it comes to business space, are exclusively the urban mafia and no reduction in the price of apartments will occur. The government is still insisting on those legal proposals that the previous government has made, and when it comes to fiscal cash registers, where we see that the first introduction of value added tax puts the meaning of the introduction of fiscal cash registers in general, because most taxpayers, with value added tax, are already paying a huge part of the tax when purchasing goods. So we are now in a situation where independent trade, and even legal persons dealing with retail sales of certain products, have in their total turnover a tax liability per value added tax of 1-2 per cent. We condition these people to obtain extremely expensive fiscal cash registers, where there is one particular monopoly, which is drawn from the previous government, and this government continues it when it comes to the purchase and import of these fiscal registers, service, maintenance, etc. To make the circus even bigger, in Article 3. The draft fiscal cash register law, in paragraph 4, gives the minister the right to propose who he will release from the obligation of fiscal cash registers, which is why it is conditional upon the specificities of activity. We had a few months ago to amend and supplement the Transport Tax Act, where the existence of fiscal registers was regulated, and then we actually saw what it was about. The minister for the speaker made it clear that the amendments to the Transport Tax Act, where fiscal cash registers are regulated, are only being brought in so that doctors who practice private practice and lawyers can release fiscalisation. I understand that the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia is a member of the G17 Plus party, which fought and fought to raise salaries for doctors working in state institutions. It is his job to provide healthcare professionals with dignity and conditions to work. We can also now argue that despite this increase in wages, this job that these people do is more than human, provided they do it the way it's meant by oath and law. But now I don't understand why we're releasing private practice of fiscalization. So, now, any doctor in private practice, when they charge from a patient, without any way of control, that money can be put in his pocket and spend it however he wants, without any obligation to report it and pay the state tax. This means that all the retail traffic he has belongs to is him, and here we harass everyone else, where the total traffic that he does is one or two percent. I would like to conclude my discussion with this because I see that this congregation majority, too, is continuing to put four or five legislative proposals in one debate. Given the number of colleagues who applied for the discussion, I see this is the time for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10035	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10036	Thank you. Dear People’s MPs, on the agenda of this session is a set of laws that practically represent the continuation of what this assembly has done by adopting, i.e. By voting the new budget for 2005 and G17 plus will support and vote for these laws for two reasons. The first reason we will support these legislative proposals is because the Serbian government has proposed progressive and very advanced legislative solutions that follow this area, and the second reason is that these legal proposals contain some solutions that form part of the pre-election promises of G17 plus, which have the sole purpose – progress and development of Serbia. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the income tax of citizens and the Law on property tax represent, together with some other laws, the development concept of the budget and the general economic policy of the government. In my presentation, I will refer to these two legislative proposals. They are, I am giving myself freedom, perhaps the most important draft laws that will have an intense impact on the economic flows and on the development of the economy, and on raising citizens' standards in Serbia. So it's about advanced suggestions, and that's what I'm about to say, and it's already been seen from what my colleagues have brought out so far. Employers are one of the main topics of this law, and they will have a direct release of the obligation to pay the income tax of 14%. It's a significant release, which often represents a rate that actually defines the company's profits, so we can't consider it to be any kind of cosmetic change or something that's just propaganda. This release will have employers for all employees in the period from January 1st to December 31st 2005, and for the growth of workers, therefore it is exclusively stimulated to employ new workers. This will contain the gray economy. Employers will also have the interest of introducing certain discipline in this area and hiring new workers, thus reducing the budget transfer towards these organisations. This means that the budget will be released for those resources that will be able to focus on the social, health, police and other institutions, which form one of the basic structures of the state and which employs a large number of Serbian citizens. We also have a tax reduction, i.e. one real tax policy, i.e. the income tax of workers referring to work abroad. We think that there was a really unfair legal solution here, and now we have an equalisation which, apart from meeting a certain type of tax, fiscal justice, will also be an incentive to ensure that our companies are more competitive on the foreign market. Farmers, whom this government is concerned about and in that previous draft budget, and also in this 2005 year, are exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on agricultural and forestry income, meaning the part which is a cadastrian income, for a period of two years, for 2004 and 2005, while at the same time tax-free premiums, subsidies, budget regression, as well as the VAT refunds mentioned, are therefore a fair approach to a country that makes a cumulative incentive. So, apart from the subsidy, as a direct incentive, we have this kind of indirect incentive to develop agriculture. The tax rate on income from independent activity for entrepreneurs is reduced. This is a new legal solution that has so far not been present in our tax practice and is going from 14 to 10%, which shows that the state has the same attitude towards entrepreneurs and legal persons. The companies will directly, and I know from contact with people who are entrepreneurs, have an incentive and fair relationship, the feeling that the state is equally caring for everyone who deals with the economy, or who contributes to this sphere. The current tax exemption of interest or capital gains generated on the basis of public loan bonds and old foreign exchange savings is also extended. Again, it is about the fulfillment of a kind of justice. This solution refers to citizens who were and who owned such securities of value, i.e. old foreign savings which, practically, even though they owned certain funds, in one way or another, were estranged from these assets and liabilities, yet they were obliged to settle certain obligations to the State. Of course, the additional thing is the tax incentive for the development of securities of value, which is a civilizational fluid in which we, unfortunately, are quite lagging behind. On the basis of the annual income tax, citizens are exempt from dividends and profits in order to avoid high taxation of these revenues. This is one problem that our citizens have been pointing to, although our securities market is still underdeveloped, but it is going very intensively towards developing this market. It is very important that the state provides a fair mechanism to regulate such a tax burden. Also, we have an advanced approach, it's an expansion of the untaxed work, which is a stimulating measure, by increasing the normative costs, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, but also by citizens. So far, entrepreneurs have had a lower base of this untaxable work, a smaller part of these normised costs. The state will allow them to be much larger and will leave a part of the funds that will be able to reinvest in the development of this activity. Like what Mr. Minister mentioned, in people who are the property owners they use to rent for tourist purposes we have a significant shift, by 50% the basis for taxation is reduced. In the part of the law that regulates property tax, there are more advanced solutions, and one of these is that in the principle of social justice, those who have more and should give more, so here are assets greater than 400,000 euros, something that can be considered a wealth of a particular individual or a legal person, at a higher rate, will be taxed than so far. Those who have less will pay less, and I think that achieves social justice, which will be supported by G17 plus. The increase for those who have over 400,000 euros will be 50% more than in the previous legal solutions. I would like to mention one more thing, and that is the abolition, within the framework of this bill, tax and property rights of the actions issued on behalf of and on the shares of a limited-response society, and above all, when it comes to action. This is something that the citizens have been very critical of, because of the indevelopment of our market in general and the inability to deal with securities of value, and the way companies have done business. So they owned something that didn't make them any profits, no dividends, and they had to, because that's why the stockholders paid a certain state tax. This creates this particular justice, because citizens on their own ownership of shares in this case will not pay any tax, and thus will be encouraged to increase the market of paper from the value and attitude of citizens to business, and ownership over this form of securities of value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10037	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic be prepared. Meanwhile, the correction, a recent read-out notice that was changed, so the 20th session of the Committee on Culture and Information, scheduled for Wednesday, 8 December at 14:00 hours, will be held on Thursday, December 9th, tomorrow at 1400 hours in the hall on the second floor. Here you go, Mr. Pantyhose.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10038	Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the addition of this set of laws is further harmonising and harmonising relations with European legislation, i.e. with the laws and regulations of the European Union. On the other hand, this is an attempt to reduce the grey economy, and this will reduce the grey economy and make significant funds inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't think these goals can be achieved, at least as far as reducing the gray economy in this way, because the gray economy, given this much unemployment in society, is a kind of social policy. Until issues in this area of social giving and social policy can be resolved, the issue of the gray economy cannot be resolved and the grey economy can be contained. It's a form of how people survive and manage, and how they solve their institutional problems and general existence. When considering the criminal provisions of this law, and I can say that they are dragonous, so that because of 20, 30 dinars plus - minus differences in the case are closed by individual employers, i.e. private, and that such strict legal measures are applied, then this not only does not want this grey economy to curb, but it will just achieve the opposite result, that many who have legalized their actions, i.e. objects that work in a legal way, will go into the frames of the gray economy. Not only that, but to retreat to illegality, so it'll be a lot harder for them to control or they won't be able to control themselves at all. I'll set an example, to show if the government can solve these flows, or the gray economy, and to suppress it, to do so on a practical case, let's say, the New Market. Novi Pazar was previously known not only for the production and distribution of certain excise goods, such as cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, etc., but recently appeared with the production of Galenika drugs, under the same name and with the same packaging. Basically, what's in there, I don't know, but I know it's all but the cure. Show on these examples how you can regulate it and contain it, and then we can believe it, and then it will prove itself, and such paths will be contained in the gray economy. Otherwise, this is the other way. The law on income tax, Article 21b says - an employer who employs indefinitely new workers from January 1st to December 31st 2005 is exempt from the obligation to pay a calculated and suspended tax on the earnings of a newly employed worker for a period of one year from the date of establishment of the worker's employment relationship. I suggest that for all workers, employers who hire new workers are easily recognised. Otherwise, he will fire the workers, most likely before the new year, and then they will be taken by all labour markets again, and it is certainly not a wish, nor the intentions of employers, nor the government, nor the labour markets, or citizens. Therefore, when laws like this are passed, it is also necessary to think about the practicality of their implementation, i.e. if rights are given, that these rights can be equally used. I am merely citing how the labour market had previously worked – for each new employee, 24,000 dinars were given in the form of loans on equal terms, which met the conditions, but because of a certain mass of funds in those funds, it could have been used, possibly, by 10% of the candidates. Who was getting those funds? Aroundly, those who gave 10% commissions to someone in the labour market, and even to the ministry, may have continued, and that certainly went on the hands of corruption, bribes and all other negative phenomena in this society. Therefore, all participants should be given not only the right but also the right to exercise those rights. That's why I suggest we make this change. Furthermore, Article 56 states that the following cost norms, such as Wyatt works, tapestries, etc. are recognised. I think the same thing should be applied to the production of tafted and hand-knotted carpets, because both are produced by the same technology, are not manufactured by machine-based means, or produced as unique and have artistic value. So they should be given the same treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10039	The People's MP Dusan Prorokovic has the word, and let the MP Milan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10040	Dear People's MPs, the government's policy in monetary and fiscal terms took place on several tracks. With these laws we can also see that it gives positive results on two of these several tracks. The first track, which is treated by these laws, is related to the savings policy, and the second is related to the building of the institutional capacities of all state authorities. As for this second one, by building institutional capacity, by regulating certain procedures, we have had an increase in income compensation of as much as 21% in the last nine months. I don't know of a similar example in countries in the environment, that within such a short time, there is an increase in compensation, despite the reduction of some taxes and some excise duties by one-fifth. As for the savings policy, and in line with what I said, in line with the increase in income fees, we will, through these laws that we are considering today, cut taxes. Even four legislative proposals provide for a certain tax relief. They predict in this direction that the economy in 2005 will be disbursed for, if I have calculated correctly, 7 billion dinars, and the banks will pay less taxes for 4.5 billion dinars. Disperse the economy by seven billion dinars is not easy, but I think the effects will be how. If the price of one job is, the creation of a new job from 12,000 to 20,000 euros, then we should count on this redundancy, of course, if all these 7 billion dinars go to investment, to open up 6 to 10,000 new jobs in the following year. Also, what we could expect from commercial banks is that due to the reduced tax by 4.5 billion dinars during 2005 the interest is reduced by several index points. In addition to the measures provided for, with regard to the abolition of the income tax for all newly employed workers, as well as the greater benefits for hiring older than 45 years, so 100 dinars will be paid about 31 dinars of contributions, I think we can count on them to be open next year, these government measures, new jobs. Of course, no one can order economic operators to give all this money into investment, because there will be tax evasion, it is their full right to keep it as their profit, but I think the investment will be, and how it will be, because building institutional capacities in the Republic of Serbia and how it stabilises. I would like to say that I fully support this kind of motivation for employers to report their employees and to express full support for a policy run by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, which I would call stimulating before sanctions. We with legal restrictions, new legal sanctions, will achieve nothing, except that a growing and larger number of working organisations, business entities, etc. trying to avoid those legal frameworks. In this way they are offered a subsidy, they are stimulated to do so in one period of time, and only then, if they do not, are threatened with certain sanctions, which will be two to 20 times greater than those so far. With these measures, I have to remind myself, a few years ago in Croatia, for half a year, even the number of unemployed has been reduced by 250,000, not because the new 250,000 jobs have been opened, but because there have been many people who have been registered at the Labour Bureau and have already been doing something. Therefore, their employers were not paid to report them, to pay their contributions. There are currently 950,000 registered unemployed persons with our National Employment Service. The effect is likely to be similar to that in Croatia. Therefore, the number of unemployed will decrease, as employers are much more paid to report their employees. Of course, both the state pays off, because there will be a number of registered employees, so the budget procedure will be at the same level or perhaps even higher. Also, what is being stimulated is about copyright fees. We have so far had an amazing tax on copyright fees, which I've never heard of anywhere in the world. Taxation went up to 92%. In this way, all, which will be subject to taxation for copyright fees, are also subsidized to report their copyright fees. Furthermore, what is a positive trend is a complete transfer of responsibility to event organizers. Such a system is much easier to control, such a system has given effects everywhere in the world, and I think that the effects will be seen very quickly with us. Then, for example, capital income tax stimulates domestic work in tourism, i.e. legal reporting of tourists, tourist taxis, which will have a two-way effect on the budget of local self-government, or the Republic of Serbia, as well as on increasing the quality of services in tourism itself. So far we've had a lot of wild objects, a lot of different things going on in that economic segment, unwanted things. I think these little steps prevent those trends from happening in the future. Furthermore, what I see as a positive trend, although I have seen from previous speeches that some disagree, is the categorization of those taxpayers who pay property tax, is about that 400,000 euros limit. So those with assets of up to 400,000 euros will pay a tax of 2%, and those with property of over 400,000 euros will pay a tax of 3%. I see this as a positive measure. Maybe this line should be reduced a little bit, maybe even halved to 200,000 euros. I see this as a good measure, because we've witnessed that for years money, especially those coming from abroad, goes to dead capital. Params are built huge houses, which often cost more in the construction process than later on in the market, which is another paradox of our market. With these measures, I think we can focus some of that money not on dead capital but on the production and creation of new jobs, and above all I mean the money that comes from Serbian gastarbitters, who work most often in Europe. Also, what are the positive effects of these proposed laws is that farmers are exempt from tax on cadastrian income and, also related to farmers, excise duties on diesel fuel for tractors are lifted. The positive measure of this is that we will increase the competitiveness of our products. It is easy to say that Spanish apples are cheaper than Serbian apples and that our farmers can't even fight on the domestic market, but we can't order anyone to buy any product. This is one of the measures of subsidising our farmers and the desire for our goods to be first on the domestic market, and at some later stage and on the foreign market, it shows more competitive than it is right now. Another positive measure is the removal of excise duties on diesel fuel by river boats for transport and freight transport. I am a big supporter of the idea that Serbia is leading a policy of comparative advantages that it has in relation to countries in the environment. Our comparative advantage is that we have one of the most important rivers that flows through Serbia, therefore, Danube. We must in this way try to make river transport more profitable, bring new investors into Serbia, which will be cheaper to make their transit stations somewhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not Romania, Bulgaria or Hungary, and we must try to make transport cheaper, in order to make more traffic across our rivers. Serbia is also here in one paradox if you compare the number of waterways of some other European countries and how much transport is on these waterways, what revenue for private businesses are for those countries as well. We can see that Serbia has a chance in this segment and that we need to focus much more on these things. Someone here called these laws small laws, saying there are more important topics to be dealt with. I don't want to argue with that, there are a lot of open topics that and how they affect our country and our society that need to be dealt with, but although small laws, although these may be small measures, I remind you that these laws will affect the opening of at least a few thousand new jobs. If by every law we influence our economy, our society and all the events in our country, I am more likely to make these small laws and small measures to be taken than to bombically announce the opening of some 500,000 new jobs or salaries than I know how many hundreds of euros, and later in the process of realising this stop, i.e. lead a confusing policy. Unlike all these announcements that we have had in the past 20 years, such small measures create an ambience, create conditions for opening new jobs, for new investments in Serbia, and for Serbia to take advantage of its comparative advantages compared to the environment, and to continue with the upcoming trend it has been taking over the last four years when, if we take one piece of information about the gross social product per capita, it has reached both Bulgaria and Romania.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10041	The People's Messenger Milan Nikolic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10042	Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the honourable MPs, today we are discussing a group of, in my opinion, very important economic laws, which are timely introduced into the procedure and which in a certain way make harmonisation with value added tax, and many things and dilemmas between one and other types of taxes are now being clarified and at the same time the harmonisation of the relationship between European laws and our legislation is being harmonised. I think it's a good thing these laws are passed, because they have a wide range of taxpayers. It's a flaw in this macroeconomic policy or tax policy that's been so far. These measures reduce the grey area of business, the tax is adequately distributed according to the economic strength of taxpayers and I think justice is being carried out. I think that this way, what is already going to be ensured, that the budget is being filled more evenly and that the possibility of budgetary consumers will be such that they can evenly count on the budget allocations. It is much more important than the law that a policy of moderate spending, actually spending as much as there is and that it is available. At the same time that this consumption is charged in a certain way than a much larger coverage. I have to tell you that I work at a large company that has about 7,000 employees, that this company is focused on foreign trade, exporting, and I can tell you that we make a very easy deal with partners when it comes to design, when it comes to deadlines, when it comes to quality, and most often we get into the price. We are puzzled simply because the state is expensive to us and the internal economy is expensive to us because of many events in previous years, because of high interest rates that are present at banks. We are entering the paradox that unfortunately the biggest advantage this country has, the cheap workforce, cannot take advantage of because other costs have exceeded the price. I think it's good in the corporate income tax law to cut taxes on workers to 52%. It is one of the essential elements that will accelerate the competitiveness of our products, especially on the domestic and foreign markets. I think it's also good to get rid of part of the income tax of workers who return to work for the second time, who were technological surpluses, and at a significant rate of reduction, and for workers who first start working relationship, the employer doesn't pay taxes for a year's contributions. I think for many jobs on black, actually working on black, employers will now have motives to return to legal jobs, legal relationships. Also, very important, for a growing number of small and medium-sized enterprises, for an increasing number of private entrepreneurs, the tax rate on income is reduced to 10%. I think it'll be a good motivation for the development of these jobs, for competitiveness, for hiring new workers. I think we're going to develop a paper market as valuable as possible at this point by removing the value tax on securities issued on behalf. Furthermore, tax cuts or non-payment of taxes in agriculture and forestry by two years, as well as a reduction of further taxation on catastrian incomes will also create an incentive for the development of agriculture, which is a fairly good chance of the country, which can make the right use of it. I think the inheritance tax should also be paid as provided by law. Whoever inherits more, pay more. Whoever inherits less, I think it's totally fine to pay less. The Excise Act makes harmonisation, above all, with EU laws. At the same time, domestic tobacco production is encouraged, and I think it's a good thing that things got a little bit separated, that we have the excise warehouse of a domestic producer and that we have an importer who's going to have to pay customs at the border right away, which creates some advantage for our producers. I have this remark, the habits, the traditions, the customs of our peasants are to produce for their needs, say, brandy, which is also an excise product. In one part of the law, it is said that the traffic of excise products or alcohol, in particular brandy, is subject to excise duty between natural persons. The minister promised, I think the amendments will fix that. That's not possible to track, I think it would be a great burden. It's mostly a hobby of production, it's not about production for the market. It's possible that one part of it can be isolated, but I think it would cause more problems than it could benefit. There are different interpretations about the introduction of fiscal registers and remote monitoring of transactions through fiscal registers. This country is burdened, as are all countries in transition, many problems with black, smuggling jobs, and the tax burden is on very few businesses. These economic operators are unable to withstand such duties and become able to export, they are uncompetitive precisely because they have these heavy burdens. With the government's tenacity, the inspection services and all those in charge of this job, I think it will be possible to create a high, comprehensive phase. From this, the budget will be able to draw in the right way and there is a possibility that tax burdens can be reduced in a certain way in the next period, more than ever before. It has multiple significance for the future of this country, for the economy of this country, especially for small entrepreneurs. Another remark I would like the government's representatives to have in mind, student and youth cooperatives, for people up to 26 years of working and schooling, are exempt from tax payments. However, we know that we have a large number of youth cooperatives through which employers occasionally, temporarily, people who are largely socially endangered, take to finish certain jobs that do not last much. I think it would be good to carry out, perhaps not full release, but to be in some priority over regular employees. I think that would be a kind of justice. The SPS will support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10043	Thank you. The People's Messenger has the word of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Takach Istvan. Meanwhile, another announcement, the 41st session of the Administrative Committee will be held today, on Wednesday, 8 December 2004, at 1400 hours, in the second floor hall. Here you go. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10044	Ladies and gentlemen, the assembly majority yesterday violated the dignity of the National Assembly when the proposal was accepted to conduct a united debate on six tax laws. In every serious state, when it comes to tax laws, MPs can speak indefinitely, and we have just so much time to read the titles of all these laws and thus finish discussing these proposals. It is clear why this is so, because when the MPs of the SRS group speak about the proposals of the Government of Serbia, then we analyse it, we talk about every member as far as we can get. In this way she was tried to prevent such a debate about laws. That's why the minister spoke about these proposals yesterday for 50 minutes, or more about some prosperity in Serbia. According to what the minister said - the tax was lifted, the tax was abolished, the tax cut, the tax cut, simply a man to wonder which state Minister Dinkic is talking about. I asked him from the bench -- if there was any tax left, because it was really an impression that the citizens of Serbia would no longer pay their country. Of course, none of that is true, not nearly true. On the contrary, the cost of living is rising daily, the gatherings are daily and citizens are well aware and every day commenting, in every place I find myself -- more of this because of Dinkic's fiscal registers, more of it because of Dinkic's VAT, and the general conclusion is that this government is as previous. Serbian citizens -- Kostunica and Tadic are exactly the same, and one and the other promised new jobs, there is no such thing. Both of them increased their salaries, they didn't, and one and the other promised to raise their pensions, and there's no pensions. This is how frequent changes and additions to these laws from the tax area talk about the government treating its citizens so that it considers the government's most important job to be to fill the budget. Of course, it is a government obligation, but not every time from the citizens' pockets. In addition to taking care of budget filling, the government should take great care of its citizens, citizens' standards, and such laws, regardless of the praises heard about these proposals, both by the minister and MPs of the assembly majority, will neither increase standards nor improve the living conditions of Serbian citizens. Everything's the opposite of that. Since it is not enough time to speak individually of all these laws, we have invested a number of amendments and MPs of the SRS Group will speak in particular, but I will only refer to a few members. For example, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act; Article 8 provides for an increase in the excise duty on alcoholic beverages, and we have just tabled an amendment to get it back to the old state, because in this way the sale of alcoholic beverages is entering illegal flows, and that is not what the minister here claimed, that there is no more black market, he says, a cigarette, and I tell him that I am yesterday, and today I have cigarettes in my purse bought there. Citizens say there are some kiosks, when I ask - where can these cigarettes be bought, they say - you have it in the government's kiosk, Dinkic inherited it from Djelic. In every part of town there are such kiosks where cigarettes are sold without excise stamps. I'm sure you all know that. It seems that the Serbian mafia is not enough to take from cigarette smuggling, oil smuggling, electricity smuggling, and such an increase in excise duties apparently and alcoholic beverages enter the sphere of smuggling. We also suggested that beer excises be reduced from the proposed nine to six dinars, because we think it's really appropriate and moderate. Then we have an article of 20b of this bill, where the conditions and procedures for obtaining and withdrawing an excise permit, the way and control of the dispatch and transfer of products to the excise warehouse and keeping records in the excise warehouse will be prescribed by the minister responsible for the financing operations. We have proposed the amendment to be a Government, because indeed we in the SRS generally think that such over-discretionary powers should not be given to any minister, especially when it comes to Minister Dinkic, whom we have an opinion on very often brought here. I'm just going to comment on the property tax law, since that law is the most praised by Mr. Minister here, and then look at article 9 of that law, when it comes to real estate tax, it increases the base from 250,000 to 400,000 dinars. I'm talking about tax exemptions, and we suggested that it be a million dinars, because indeed the immobility of 400,000 dinars unfortunately in our society and our country is often owned by very poor people, who are unable to pay taxes. Don't you from this congregation majority, from this government, repeat the pearls of those former ministers, who recommended to the citizens to sell apartments in order to pay for the electricity, and you, as you went along, will obviously one day, and very soon, you'll have to ask the citizens to sell apartments to pay taxes. No, Serbian citizens expect much more from the government and this Parliament, so I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, since the minister is gone, I can't suggest to him that he adopt the amendments, but I suggest that when we discuss details, you accept SRS proposals and that these tax laws, even if they are, at least a little less into the pockets of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10045	The word of the Messenger of the people is Takac Istvan: let the messenger of the people be prepared, Ivan Radic. Excuse me, Mr. Touch, replica. Snow White Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10046	I really have to answer to deny what's been said, given the fact that it's a complete lie. I would like to stress that the fact that citizens know that this is the year in which economic growth has been achieved, that this year in which this government has significantly increased industrial production and that it has not been greater in the past 20 years than it has been this year. Of course, citizens cannot expect, and they did not expect and no government can be expected to significantly raise the standard of citizens in an eight-month period and that is absolutely clear. However, I would like to stress that it is also clear to citizens that the tax policy that this government is leading to isolating all those who pay taxes and that poor citizens pay significantly less taxes than the rich. That's the essence of this tax policy. I would also like to stress that these laws significantly reduce the number of taxes burdening Serbian citizens, and that is part of the pre-election promises and they have been kept. That's the difference between us and some others. As for cigarette smuggling, I would like to point out that cigarette smuggling must be the smallest this year. When cigarette smuggling, oil and other products flourished, Serbian citizens know very well, when they were bought in the streets by retailers, and gasoline, and cigarettes and many other products. In whose pockets it went, the citizens also know. They're newly formed rich people who must be on the other side now, not on the side of this government. I also call on all the responsible citizens of Serbia, including those who speak for this speaker, to report any trade mark selling smuggled cigarettes. If you doubt it, you can report it to me, and I will certainly do whatever it takes to keep such a trade closed. I am a responsible citizen of Serbia, and I will make every possible effort for the tax administration to shut down such a trade. All the information we have is that there are no such trades and they don't exist. Saying to this speaker that the government is behind such traffics, it's really more than impertinence.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10047	Thank you. Please give me a warning. This wasn't a replica. This was part of a principle debate. I ask you not to use the call on the replica to participate in the principle debate. I also ask Serbian citizens not to rat on MPs, but to address the committees in charge where all MPs are sitting. Here you go, Mr. Tucker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10048	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda we have amendments and additions to the laws governing tax obligations on property, income of citizens, excise products and others. The G17 plus in its programme of work in a significant place highlights the need to reduce tax rates and abolish certain taxes. At the beginning of the current Government of the Republic's mandate, nearly 50% of the social product was estimated to be achieved in the gray economy. To improve this situation, this congregation has passed several laws in the past. Among other things, certain taxes have been abolished, and that tax on the fund since 1 July of this year and the financial transaction tax, which begins to apply from 1 January of next year. G17 plus supports these tax changes. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention and attention to current and future employers, as well as persons without employment, I would like to focus on the fact that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax in 2005 provides for. In fact, this law stimulates employers to hire new workers from the labour market, who have been registered as unemployed persons for at least three months, by exempting the income tax of 14%. For example, net income of 7,500 dinars per month represents 1,500 stimulating funds for employers. If the worker is over 50 years old, under the earlier law for 2005, the employer is exempt from paying contributions from pension and disability insurance, health insurance and contributions to the unemployed. These reliefs, I think, will awaken employers' interest in hiring workers over 50 years of age, or persons from the national labour service records. The tax is released for voluntary pension and disability insurance, which the employer pays from the employee's salary, amounting to 3,000 dinars. G17 plus advocates that economic flows, and therefore social care, are achieved in the greater degree within business activities, without ageing the state, so I support such reliefs as are intended to achieve such aspirations. The G17 plus specifically advocates, while at the same time supporting the adoption of regulations that will contribute to the improvement of the conditions for agriculture. Under the 2005 draft law, farmers will be exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on income from agriculture, forestry, on cadastrian revenues. The Law amending and supplementing the Excise Act provides for the right to return excise duty on diesel fuel for the propulsion of tractors, to the quantities necessary for agricultural landowners to work. This lowers the retail price by almost 30%. Farmers who received various agricultural livestock products have been exempt from paying taxes on the annual income of citizens. Entrepreneurs are covered by these tax reliefs. They are projected to reduce the tax rate on the incomes of independent activity from 14% to 10%, and with additional reliefs to include those costs that have not been foreseen so far. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, G17 plus in all actions supports the acceleration of a more efficient market economy, and therefore I advocate that the market for paper of value, as fast as possible and as per the reputation of developed countries, plays a significant role in financial flow regulators. Therefore, in addition to changing the rules for the functioning of this market, it is necessary for businesses, when it comes to securities of value, stock companies, profit and dividends. This draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act exempts citizens from both dividends and large profits. The proposed laws on changes and additions to certain tax exemptions are stimulating and aim to improve the conditions for the adjustment and disbursement of the economy, and therefore G17 Plus MPs support and recommend that all parliamentary groups do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10049	Thank you, Mr. Takatch. The word has a folk MP Ivan Radic and then Arsen Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time, it happened that the National Assembly was discussing in a united debate, and there were even seven legislative projects in the proposal, although in the meantime the promoter withdrew one law, although we know that it was very important laws, namely amendments and amendments to the law. The latter is more strange and why MPs thus, taking into account the fact that time is limited for the debate of parliamentary groups, tend to be valid and in an extremely constructive and good way to plead on these drafts of the law and to give their opinion. Taking into account the time available to the SRS parliamentary group, I will only make three main remarks, which I have been able to see, i.e. several principled remarks. As regards the first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens, what is seen is that there are three rates of tax. So, one I would call a total rate of 14 percent, then a 10% rate for entrepreneurs who generate income from independent activities and at the end of the income tax rate from copyright and related rights and industrial property rights at a rate of 20 percent. I think - that the government had good intentions for all entrepreneurs who made the revenues would tax at a unique rate. We believe that this could be reduced to 10%, and this would actually prove the government's goodwill and really help the citizens of Serbia. This is more about more technical changes here, and I'm not talking about how it can happen this way to ask the question of the constitutionality of these differences, given that it's guaranteed to Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that citizens are equal in their rights and duties and have equal protection against state authorities. As far as the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act is concerned, this is really only about cosmetic changes, regardless of what appears to be tax bases for property that has been tax-free are raised from 200,000 to 400,000. This has essentially changed nothing, especially if we have in mind that the bill that these amendments have been treated since 2001. If we take into account the rate of dinar compared to the euro in the meantime, the rise in prices and the cost of living together, then I think it will come down to the exact same amount, i.e. That 400,000, that's about 5,000 euros somewhere, so, by some estimate, that's one better walled garage. The SRS is of the opinion that this rate should have been significantly raised, not to say double with respect to this proposal that came from the proposings, and even in one amendment, it was proposed that it go up to a million dinars. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, it is certainly an unpopular move by the Government and I will only mention Article 12, which provides for an increase in the excise duty on brandy, heavy alcoholic beverages and liqueurs and low-alcohol drinks. The position of the SRS parliamentary group is that excise duties should be kept at the existing level and there was no need for them to increase, and in particular this applies to the new Article 12a, which suggests the introduction of an excise duty on all types of beer, other than non-alcoholic beer containing up to 0.5% alcohol, amounting to 9 dinars per litre. This should have been burdened by far less excise duty, i.e. The amount. This is just saying that the budget that we adopted about a month ago was unreally constructed, that it was neither reformal nor developmental, and that these amendments and additions to the Excise Act were only forced to fill the budget deficit. In the case of beer, I will point out the amount of money inflows, for example, to sell about a million bottles of beer a day in the season in Serbia and perhaps more. It is 4.5 million dinars, which are being poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget every day, amounting to about 135 million in a month and up to 150 million in dinars, all in the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I would only briefly say about the fiscal register law, and I am forced to say it here, because I am asked by people who are working on a colorful market in Jagodina, who have told the Government and the Minister – do you have any morals when you force us to introduce fiscal cash registers, those who have not lost their jobs in the transition process, and who thus survive and provide themselves and their family with a piece of bread, and that, at the same time, you have not burdened some others who are far better standing, such as, for example, doctors in private practice and lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10051	Thank you. The word is made by MP Arsen Đuric (not here). The word is made by MP Zoran Antić (not here). Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Savo Urosevic. Wait a minute, you want to switch. It's okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10052	Well, it's still day, Mr. Markovic, and I expect you to let us know that we should stay here tonight and Dinkic is used to working at night. Because when he needed us to discuss the budget, which was adopted at 4 a.m., through the gathering of MPs from the ruling group, we are worthy and diligent, as we are now doing, worked, but it is absolutely pointless to talk about the proposals of these laws in a united debate on this many points of the agenda, and the minister is not here. There's no excuse for that. He can send five or ten of his deputies, there are not so many, and that is not important, but not to listen to criticism and warning MPs, now the main opposition parties, but we believe already in 2005, the ruling SRS, is unacceptable to us and there is no excuse. But it says enough about him and how this ministry works, about promises and more promotional things concerning the proposed laws, rather than real pictures of what they will provide in Serbia's tax policy for 2005. The most scandalous thing actually happened a few months ago, when we had the Law on Transport Tax and through the adoption of a member who to the maximum increased the discretionary right of Minister Dinkic, Minister of Finance, to determine by sublegal acts which groups of debtors would be released from the use of, or use of, fiscal registers. We today have several groups of dissatisfaction before the Serbian Parliament, and the biggest problem is making promises, both by Dinkic and individual presidents of municipalities and cities in Serbia, that drink sellers will be freed from mandatory use of fiscal registers. If you want to talk to people who, in this way and in this cold weather, and when it's rain, snow, and when it's 40 degrees out there, use the possibility and that drinking gig, and it's usually people who have lost their jobs in their factories, because the previous DOS government left them on the street, if that's the only way they can feed themselves and their family, then you MPs, now I'm talking to you, because the minister isn't there, be honest, so tell them it's a one hoax. What does not stand in the law can be freely interpreted only correctly, that it is not binding for anyone. How do we know what's going to happen tomorrow to Dinkic and whether he's going to use that, by the way, very high discretionary right that he gave himself through the bill and to deceive these people? They have no guarantees, neither they nor anyone you promise anything to. Otherwise, there is also no such practice in the world, and especially in the countries to which you are calling and taking over from them numerous legal solutions, that a potential group of those who do not want to pay taxes on any basis is defined by sublegal acts without the law. And if the minister were here, I would call him and ask him to tell me which country in Europe, which he is often called upon, there are and how it is done. On the other hand, when it comes to tax laws and whether they are good or not, I understand this advocacy, but quite inconclusive, I would say in my humble assessment, MPs from the ruling group, and especially from the G17 plus party to promote these laws, but whether some laws are good or not when tax laws are at stake, this is best told by the revenue side in the budget. Are you able to charge from taxpayers what you planned in the law, or whether you will experience in practice your true impelence. I'm telling you that no matter how much you get up and promote a reduction, which will not contribute significantly to the start of production, in creating a new value, you'll see that in Serbia it all comes down to being ordinary people, and when I say people who are both entrepreneurs and have independent trades, and these poor people who freeze in front of the Assembly building, and represent drinkers, they suffer the most, while on the other hand, favorites of the regime, the economic-financial mafia and various lobbys do everything to do to carry out the biggest tax ejaculation and to operate through various deals with their loved ones in power. Corruption, so present in all the pores and structures of our society, is what a simple citizen and one who has an independent trade shop, and who works at the market and who deals with agriculture, who waits to receive a pension, some church girl, hurts the most. Go to root out corruption and show it to us on some examples, because Dinkic can't be a good example of saying that there is nothing wrong in the country and that tax laws will contribute to more stable economic and financial opportunities, when we know, and it has proved through the work of the polling board, and when it comes to the energy mafia, that there are no clean jobs. As long as the state and the D.A. are not responding to such obvious and major criminal affairs in the country, it is impossible to convince an ordinary citizen, a taxpayer, that he is fully protected and that everything is regular in the country and that he only needs to come a certain day in the month and pay the tax. Dinkic's harrakes in all Serbia's cities, here, in my Kragujevac, in all the municipalities in Šumadija, and I hear all over Serbia, have intended that by the end of the year, some bonus that was given to them or norm, however you will, be filled and bought as much money into the budget, i.e. to overcome the obvious difficulties that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has. Is it normal for us to be promoted through an estrace attack, and then people would say and think, well, well, they have a lot of money. If anyone wants to, and this should explain to Serbian citizens, to organise family joy, marriage, send your son to the military, to organise it, and to hire an escrow performer, or a real or under the circumstances, he must pay a lot of money to the state, or 40%, and report to the fifth in the month that he contracted with that performer. Through this kind of taxation, and that's what a colleague of Radeta talked about, through new taxes on alcoholic beverages, through the inability to have the people and to spend themselves and that it has to pay a lot more, you actually show every absence of reality and the fact that there is no incentive for new employment in Serbia through this selection after years of age, until it really creates the right conditions to create new jobs. Entrepreneurs will not be stimulated only through a reduction of 4%. You have to give them favourable loans, a much more favourable business environment so they can work, and especially because it is in the spirit of our Serbian people to cultivate entrepreneurship, and to encourage that branch and to use the possibility of people hiring. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia in this way and tell them that they will live much better in 2005, because they have a great deal of tax relief, when you did not even start to deal with crime and corruption, and when you did not start to create opportunities primarily through direct foreign investment and to start production, to open new jobs and to get strategic things in our economy and Serbia's industry solved. All of this will mean nothing to them, and certainly many structures will be affected because of this way, and above all because of the fact that so-called. The tax administration of the smallest of these days and by the end of December, unfortunately, wants to collect most of the income through the enormous penalties prescribed by previous laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10053	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The People's Messenger, Savo Urosevic, has the word. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 84(2), I am obliged to inform you at the request of a part of the MPs, among other things, and because of the willingness of the Assembly on the basis of the talks I have had, that as soon as possible the part where taxes are reduced, that the sooner I am voting, and I am talking about the part of the law, because of your willingness, all of you, the request was for today the finance minister to be in Vojvodina, because part of the extremely irresponsible people tried to panic and to confirm that the rebalancing was reduced by the budget of Vojvodina and the citizens of Vojvodina. So there's some clarifications about it today. We all care about helping out together. I apologize, I convey my apologies and thank you for your willingness to forward all the proposals that have now been made, of course, to the end of the debate, because tomorrow we continue to discuss the laws of similar content. Thank you all for understanding. The People's Messenger Sava Urosevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10054	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a set of tax laws that are fully consistent with the adopted economic and social policy of this government. Whenever new tax laws are discussed, citizens and businesses fear that they are a new burden for both citizens and tax entities. This occasion is ahead of us with laws where two basic features can be seen, and that is the dispensation of both citizens and businesses and the alignment with the already passed Law on value added tax. These laws are in full agreement with the programme principles and the pre-election promises of the G17 Plus party, which runs very responsible fiscal provisions in the Serbian government. Thanks to previously passed laws and good work by the tax administration, conditions have been created for these tax laws, which are now ahead of us, to be dominated by the words "freed from payment obligations", "declining the base of the tax", "lowening tax rates". In order to be perfectly honest, these laws also increase something, and what increases are normised or material costs, as they are known in public, and thus enables further discharge of taxpayers. I'll just count some of the major newspapers in all four laws, because they're unique. Employers are exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on workers employed from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2005. This income tax is known to amount to 14% on gross earnings, so that the total burden, as regards taxes and contributions for workers employed next year, will be slightly more than 50%, thus curbing the grey economy, i.e. creating a better employment environment, while reducing budget transfers to the Pension, Disability and Health Insurance Fund. The next paragraph of these laws, which I would like to mention, is that it is also exempt from paying taxes on earnings premiums for voluntary supplementary pension insurance. This is fully in line with the programme principles of the G17 Plus party and that pension insurance should rest on three pillars, one which is still independent and which is assisted by significant transfers from the budget, and this provision stimulates the formation of a third pillar, which is an additional voluntary pension insurance, creating conditions for our society to have long-term funds that can be placed in the economy, because we know that interest on the economy, among other things, is high and because our banks and investment funds do not have long-term funds. What is very important, in my opinion, is that farmers are also exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on catastrian income. This applies to 2004 and 2005. It is also very important that the tax rate on income from independent activity for entrepreneurs is reduced, thus equating entrepreneurs with legal persons. The rate decreases by four index points or almost 30%, and this tax decreases by slightly less than 30%. So every downturn that's a third isn't cosmetic. What is increasing, this is what I was talking about earlier, increasing the normised costs, thereby reducing the tax base for incomes obtained by legally renting rooms, beds and beds, in the event of a residence tax. From the Excise Act, I have singled out as significant, is that there is the possibility of delaying the billing and paying excise duty for those who have an excise licence, and it is obtained by fulfilling the prescribed conditions. This reduces the grey economy in the area of traffic of excise goods. Once again, I would like to point out that, among other things, the role of all these laws ahead of us and that, in some ways, all economic operators are put in a certain order and that by entering the line, they get benefits or relief in their business. In my view, the Excise Act is still important, in my opinion, the right to refaction of diesel fuel tax used to drive a tractor, to the amount necessary for the processing of land, but to registered farmers, which once again proves how important it is for all farmers to register and show which benefits all the farmers who are registered, in relation to those who remain, because of some of me completely vague fear, are unregistered. So, another proof that all agricultural holdings should register. The tax on the transfer of absolute rights to agricultural and forest land is reduced from 5% to 2.5%. What is significant for most of us, since we are all in a position to drive second-hand cars, the rate of taxes on the transmission of motor vehicles, water facilities and aircraft, decreases from 5% to 2.5%. In the end, I am sure these are laws that suppress the grey economy, which relieve the economy and citizens and increase the number of taxpayers, thus creating conditions for reducing tax rates.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10055	The Messenger of the people is Zlatan Jovanovic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic, not present. Then, let the MP of the people be prepared, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10056	Ladies and gentlemen, in my presentation, I will make only a few objections to this set of tax laws that are before us. One remark is of a formal nature, others are essential, but although it is of a formal nature, this first remark is significant, as the motioner intervened already in the first draft of the law on income tax. Namely, it is about harmonising the provisions of this law with the Constitutional Charter of the Serbia-Montenegro Community. It's already in Article 2. The citizens' income tax bill, which refers to Article 7 of the basic text, intervened to replace the words "to another republic and abroad" with the words "to another Member State and to another country". In other words, the proponent reportedly wanted to bring the law into line with the Constitutional Charter and, in an explanation, said only a termological alignment with the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro is being carried out. I don't understand how he's staying in article 7. If this law is adopted in this form, Article 7 remains in this form: "The taxpayer of income tax is a resident of the Republic of Serbia, for income achieved in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the second republic and abroad", and this is replaced by "in another Member State and in another country". We now have a situation that the state union is a form or community of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Montenegro. The Excise Act is not in line with the Charter, so in the Excise Act we have the term "Republic of Serbia" and "Republic of Montenegro". That law remained in that form. Finally, the Constitutional Charter in Article 2 defines Serbia-Montenegro as a community of the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro. Let's get it together for once, definitely and finally, that in all the laws there's what's in the Constitutional Charter, if that's how we want to apply it or stay the way it was. The second remark is essential and concerns farmers, who have been given new rights or new benefits. Some of them are quite all right; benefits, rights or exemptions from taxes on cadastrian income for 2004 and 2005. So it's just fine and it's all about farmers who are bonds of this tax. But what's controversial and what bothers me personally, and in some previous exhibitions, it's a selection of farmers. Namely, some benefits, some reliefs apply only to farmers who are registered, who have registered their households, i.e. the owners. I'm against that kind of selection myself. Why benefits and reliefs are granted only to those who are registered, and those who are not registered cannot enjoy these reliefs. In this regard, income tax is projected to exclude premiums and other benefits from farmers who have registered their holdings. We've heard before that let's say the milk premium won't be able to get farmers who haven't registered their households since 2006. Some premiums will be abolished as early as 2005 for those who are not registered and I wonder why you are making this selection or why registering agricultural holdings if they are already registered in the tax administration. Tax administrations already have in their records all agricultural producers, know exactly their possessions, land area and what this new registration means, why new registration is being made. You know there's a natural reluctance of peasants to all these registrations and lists. Why are you making them do that? A large number of households have small holdings and it is a nursing home, especially in the mountainous and mountainous areas, which live, survive from selling ten or 20 liters of milk a day, and if you deny them this premium at these prices that are now valid, and that is all symbolic anyway, but they survive and live, why deny them in some future period and these premiums. Is there a register of all households or what condition is that necessary for registration? What does registration mean if everyone can register? All this data already has the Administration of Income and I do not see the purpose and such registration, meaning, specifically in these proposals, and especially in the Excise Law proposal, where farmers registered will receive that benefit in the form of a reduction of excise duties, i.e. the exemption of excise duty from the price of diesel, and others will not be able to achieve it. Why are we now pushing for these 15 days by the end of the year all peasants to register so that they can achieve that more affordable price of diesel. The third observation, which is essential, is an objection to the tax rates provided for in the public income tax law, where three rates were applied. The rate paid by the employee is 14%, then the rate paid by the self-activities income bonds under article 38 is 10% and the income rate for copyright and related rights under article 58 is 20%. I think it's much more logical and much nicer for that rate to be unique, so it means that it's one rate, and that you're in line, if you've already gone to some certain amounts that would be realistic, logical, just, the costs that you recognize to these bonds on the incomes of copyright and related rights, not to be material costs recognised in those percentages, but to make some corrections, and to make tax rates unique so that they're all in one piece and equal. Another observation that is essential, which refers to the tax exemption, where all those employers who employ new workers in the coming year are expected to be released within one year from the income tax on citizens. What will happen, and this is what counterpart Gacevic also explained, as the public follows this session, if by the end of this year, employers fire a large number of workers to use the right to return them to work in 2005. I think it was much more meaningful and cleverer that this release also applies in 2004 since we are still in that year, given that there is one space of time to do something in practice, and the basis for it exists in the Labour Act and under that law can fire workers at any time, and I'm afraid there will be a huge layoff by New Year's Eve, so that this right will be used right next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10057	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic, and let the MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10058	Dear Mr Vice President, ladies of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering six legislative proposals in the area of finance. MEPs G17 plus will support and vote for these laws. During the transition period in which we are located, it is necessary to regulate many areas legally. However, citizens should be aware of the fact that these new legislation at first cannot bring about an improvement in the standard of living, but when a short period is passed, there is certainly a better functioning of the state and improvements in citizens' standards. Of course, these imposed measures lead to improvements and citizens can only be satisfied. Recently in the Assembly, we adopted a budget rebalance that reduced the deficit. There have been conditions for tax discharge and four out of six proposed laws refer to tax discharge. Citizens should know that G17 plus advocates an increase in the number of employees and the advantage of one of these laws is to introduce special reliefs for employers who employ the unemployed. So for the newly employed employer, they will pay 52 dinars of contributions to 100 dinars. This is a significant improvement compared to the previous period, and for the employment of workers over 50 years, the employer will pay only 26 dinars of contributions. This way the number of employees increases, and all employees will be properly reported. Therefore, there is a transition to legal flows and the motivation of employers to employ as many workers as possible, without talking about social security, protection of work and injury, which will thus be regulated, because by reporting themselves, the worker will get everything that belongs to him, so protection in sickness and protection in injury. Of course, this measure will also reduce the number of those registered to the Bureau of Labour. The fact is that 250,000 people have now been reported, and certainly many of them are only registered to receive health insurance, and that number will be reduced with this measure. The tax rate for cobwebs is reduced from 14% to 10%. The G17 plus in its pre-election programme has promised three times the agrarian budget and we have fulfilled that promise, and what we bring as a novelty to our farmers is that there are now some new reliefs, and the excise duties on diesel fuel for tractors are lifted. The fuel price will be 30% lower than in January 2005. Subsidies and fuel regression are newspapers, so they will not enter tax for 2004 and 2005. It's a newspaper and a VAT fee. A farmer who distributes agricultural products will be able to buy from a buyer, a man who buys agricultural products from him, ask for a refund of 5%, and that money will be returned to the buyer later. Citizens will pay twice the tax on car transfers bought by 5%. Now that defeat goes to 2.5%. For the transfer of purchased apartments, citizens will no longer pay taxes, the tax was 5%. The paper is voluntary and additional pension insurance, which is also tax-free. Art works are certainly tax-free by reducing the tax base by 40%, and these 40% are the normised costs that each art activity has. The important thing about all of this is that payers and organizers of events and cultural events must be registered and pay taxes. In tourism, which is one important branch and which needs to be developed, there is a change, so that taxes will also be released for those who regularly pay taxes. It is very important for our citizens to abolish the law on sales tax, on premiums and insurance. The development of long-term insurance, e.g. life insurance and collective insurance, if paid by the employer, and that is significant for workers, because that is not how taxes are not paid on benefits paid in the event of injuries to work and occupational diseases. These are only segments of improvement, you've already heard a lot from my predecessors, and I'd say that spending cuts have also led to tax cuts. The introduction of VAT will result in further relief for citizens in June. G17 plus in voting day will support these laws, and I urge you to join and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10059	I thank Parliamentarian Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the Messenger Vesna Lalic prepare for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several incorrect moves towards this House have already been made during yesterday's and today's day. The first is that the minister came, suggested the laws we discuss and left. The president of the assembly said he had gone to calm down the fire in Vojvodina caused by the reduction of funds for the province. If they hadn't voted to establish that authority in the province, we certainly wouldn't have these problems today. The other thing that irritates MPs and demeans this parliament is that six important laws, which go directly into the pocket of Serbian citizens, are united and discussed jointly. I understand small parliamentary groups that have one or two members, MPs who want to go out for a pay phone, and that's the time that's enough for them. For the SRS, which has 82 MPs and of which at least two-thirds wants to go out for a pay phone and speak its position on the law to be passed, the estimated time of an hour and thirty and a few minutes is very little. Thirdly, if you don't get me wrong, I'm not sorry that Minister Dinkic isn't here and I don't see his sweet face, because he looks the same to me now that he's sitting here in the front row with his sock on his head entering the National Bank. He doesn't mean anything to me like that, but the minister has to sit in his seat and listen to what the MPs who chose him in the end have to say. After all, the lady who entered is much nicer than Minister Dinkic, so we can be satisfied. So, too many united laws at one point on the agenda. Furthermore, yesterday when he came out for the speaker, he specifically stressed that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act has positive effects for farmers. Is that the minister's apologies for taking in the budget the six billion funds that were to be allocated to the farmers, so now he's kind of apologizing. Each of these six laws that are on the agenda requires a special comment, and normally it would be to discuss each and every one of the times that MP groups are having specifically discussed. But that's how it is. Every law has to be said only a few words to fit into the time that follows us. That's why, for a short period of time, I'm going to refer to the fiscal register law. (President: Mr. Markovic, you have all the time in the world, but start on the subject. The time of my party is just coming, but the thing is, there are a lot of speakers behind me. It seems to me that this law should have been passed much earlier, when that regulation on the introduction of fiscal registers was passed, because thanks to Djelic and the Galeb Group from Šapac, at least 80% of all commercial and service shops had to be supplied to the catering facilities. However, some in the previous government filled their pockets. I think Dinkic just inherited it and he has few of those left who have not provided the fiscal cash registers. Now he's introduced to the gigs, and I wonder how a farmer who manufactures carrots is going to type in -- carrots, two pieces, but they'll manage. Anyway, everyone's going to have to introduce a fiscal register, buy first of all, because it's going to be a commission for the other. This law is of a technical nature, but it has many illogical and unfair solutions that will directly affect Serbian citizens. Certain provisions of the law, such as Article 3(4), leave the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Finance with the possibility that they will subsequently exempt the obligors from mandatory registration through a cash register with a fiscal memory, i.e. fiscal cash register. This option is not provided for by the Transport Tax Act and this option leaves an empty space in which it will be favoured, individually whether it will be on a friendly or party line, we will only see it when this law enters into force. Several members of these laws predict keeping fiscal documents for up to three years. This is not controversial, but it says - the deadline is calculated from the first day of next year in relation to the year in which the fiscal document is printed. We're going to be in a situation where, say, on January 8th, we're going to print a document and it has to be kept for three, plus a whole year, or from December 31st this year. It'll probably cause a mix-up in people. Article 18(6) prohibits the holding of another register at the facility. Not at the counter, so he uses two cash registers, but forbids holding another cash register in the building. Now it's going to happen that someone who's already bought another cash register, then bought a fiscal one, so he hasn't found a place where the other one, no one to hand it over to, and he's going to stand in his shop, and then the financial police or whoever's already in control, and then he's going to shut down that man's shop for 60 days, and, much worse, he's going to get a fine of 100,000 million dinars. Gentlemen, there are only two things left in the end. All these laws, no matter how hard you have tried to show the citizens of Serbia how much easier, cheaper and better to live now, because you have introduced these laws, will be much harder and expensive for citizens of Serbia, because both VAT and fiscal registers are largely filled with the budget. I think the ministry should fill the budget, but not just over the back of Serbian citizens, find other opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10061	First of all, this lady is here Tanja Djelic, head of action, so she is not a beauty, but I ask the representatives of the ministry to inform the secretariat of the Assembly and the chairman of the Assembly before they are present, not to enter and sit without us knowing who it is. So I wouldn't send a secretary to ask who the representative was. It is about Tanja Djelic, head of the Action Department, which Mr. Markovic was now talking about. The word is Vesna Lalić, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10062	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President-in-Office, these laws are governed and provided by the financial system and other economic and social relations of general interest, which regulate that budget funds are provided from taxes and other established revenue laws. These laws will harmonize tax policy with EU rules, reduce the grey economy and secure an inflow of funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would like to mention in particular the fiscal cash register law, which is necessary, because the application of the value added tax law from 1 January 2005 will cease to apply the Transport Tax Act, which contains the legal basis for regulating the way goods, goods and services through the register of cash registers with fiscal memory. It is therefore necessary to regulate the registration of traffic through fiscal registers by special law. The introduction of fiscal registers is one of the main conditions for the effective application of value added tax laws. This will lead to an increase in the level of value added tax collection, thus increasing the inflow of funds into the budget. Also, the introduction of fiscal tills will allow for a significant reduction in the grey economy and prevent unfair competition. In order to make the budget more efficient, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act is given. Excise goods are, as you know, cigarettes, alcohol, gasoline, and that was unregulated and out of the law. For this reason, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax has also been tabled. The basic objectives to be achieved by the adoption of this law are newly employed workers. Employers are exempt from taxes, contributions are paid for a year, and then the tax rate on their income is reduced from independent activity for entrepreneurs from 14 per cent to 10 per cent, thus equating it with the corporate profit tax rate. Farmers are exempt from the obligation to pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry and on cadastrian income. I want to say that Mr Dinkic was one of the first experts to work for this country, and he is now working, and that his book "Economy of Destruction" was the first spark in stone to show that there was something wrong with the state. A few years ago, the book drew attention to the devastating economic policy of the then government, which completely destroyed the existential security of every citizen. Now, after all this time, this government, with the finance ministry and Mr Dinkic at the helm, is proposing to pass key laws of strategic interest for this country, which will allow secure budget filling. Citizens should know that this means regular pensions, regular salaries in health care, education, culture, regular payment of old foreign savings, as well as the provision of favourable loans and new jobs. We appeal to citizens to pay taxes neatly, because now the property tax is being poured into the local budget, so my new citizens will be better, neater. So take the bills, report the property, do the law, and it'll be better for us and our children. Let's not let the time come when our country was a sorceress in heaven or on earth, without fundamental financial laws. How am I supposed to expect the state to take care of us, if we don't lay it on sound ground and start thinking about it in the long run? These laws are therefore a step into the future and G17 plus will support all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10063	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10064	The next time you propose a merger of the agenda points, then you use December 31st, so you make a list of all the points that will be in 2005 and then put that together, and then it will be much faster and more efficient. I know you're in a hurry, that it's not easy for you, that you've been fighting over the distribution of these funds to the municipalities, but that's your problem. It's always been a problem, but it's never been such a problem that now MPs, presidents of municipalities suggest amendments to kidnap some there, to be given here, but that's your problem. Since you've brought these six laws together, first I'm going to start with these laws that nobody's commenting on, which are very dangerous for what's coming to us by 2010. So I would first move forward with the draft law on the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia. When democracy hit us on October 5th, 2000, we had Secretary Djelic from this pay phone who came from abroad, who excavated everything and everything. We have a clear promise from those of the IMF that in Serbia public spending will not be financed from primary emissions. Two years ago, we received a new law on the budgetary system and epochal things, and these epochal things are placed in the provisions of Articles 52 to 60. The law on the budgetary system, and it clearly states that the Republic can be in debt with domestic and foreign creditors, that it can conclude a contract on short-term loans, etc. The government's authority, the government's authority, but all in the short term, which means it has to be met by the end of the current year by December 31st. This law, which you all avoid, says the obligation of the Republic of Serbia is 19.7 billion dinars. Well, you see, 17 billion is short-term bonds, which the minister issued in 2004, and then a billion and 899 million, these are short-term bonds of the electricity sector, and something like 802 million of the Stock Reserve Directorate. Since the state cannot repay, it is turning it into long-term obligations and it becomes a debt that the Republic of Serbia through its budget, more or less successfully, and depending on what kind of new governments will be, to serve with the dates of 31 December 2006, 31 December 2007, 31 December 2007, 31 December 2010. And now this - epochally turned into a primary show. No money was printed, but money was printed through bonds. What's epochal? It was good while there were foreign donors, but you know for a fact that 35 percent of each loan has been lost and I'm really asking the question – we've been fed up with information on the media that everything that's done in the electricity industry, this reconstruction, it's some long-term loans, it's foreign aid, and here we can see that this has been credited by the state broadcasting short-term bonds, and now it's turning into a slightly larger debt of nearly 20 billion dinars from the Republic of Serbia. So the government has seen and admitted that economic policy has broken. She doesn't exist. There is no public spending policy. And it doesn't exist, I have to tell you, and because this government inherited not only the previous government but also the manner of the previous government, and then we have a paradoxical situation -- it can't cover public costs, and new jobs are opening up and new agencies are inventing in the public sector. It's two completely separate approaches. The state administration is not being reduced, it does not seem to be effective, but at the same time agencies are opening up, new jobs. That's Mr. Dinkic's manners, he walks in with a sock into the National Bank, throws out 400 people and immediately hires 500 people. That's his modest contribution to the state of the National Bank. It's similar in the Ministry of Finance. I don't think these tax inspectors know what they're supposed to do, but well -- it's going to go down on his head, but it's coming together, you know. So that's the first law we don't have the right to vote for. We have no right to vote for one simple reason why we didn't see that money, which the Republic would be in charge of. These are some bonds he covered the current budget deficit for 2004. There's probably something in there that's inherited, passed on, but that's the democratic option that's given these results. The next law to be avoided here is the law on the tax on non-life insurance premiums. We need such a law because the value added tax law did not cover one area that should be covered and should be taxed. But we're here unsettled. The minister accepted one amendment, I guess he saw something dropped, but he had to accept the second amendment. We suggest that the tax rate be 8 percent, not 5 percent. Oh, here's why. It's all in the light of the bill. You see, now the rate is 20 percent. It's a sales tax. And, uh, some basics have been given. Here we don't see if there's been a change of base since the new insurance law was passed. I don't think there's been a drastic change of base, but there's been a drastic fall in the tax rate. This should probably be interpreted as some kind or some type of proximity between the minister and the insurance companies and that pathological interest and desire to control all cash flows. So it would be better to raise it to 8%, because it might be some weighty rate, which would replace the loss from January 1st by 20%. Furthermore, the interesting law has come to us as a product of new democratic tendencies, i.e. we've got turbo monopolies. Of course, with excise products. Privatized tobacco production factories. The action policy has been defined five years in advance and I am now asking the question – and why no excise policy has been defined for other excise products producers, so no matter what criterion it is used. No matter. What's the difference, say, between wine and cigarettes, or beer and cigarettes? Excise is a product of both. The brewers also bought out strangers. The competition is totally envious. That's where the excises are raised, but the cigarettes are frozen. Now, there's got to be an answer to who promised it, when he promised, why he promised, and probably how much he took. Vlahovic is gone, currently absent, he was not even trying to answer those questions. Last year Djelic tried to do it, but he didn't do it well, he didn't convince us. Even this year, however, Dinkic did not convince us when the excise law changed. Now, how much the state loses and how much it gets. We'll talk about it when the time comes for amendments, because there's also something mixed, something's being accepted, something's not being accepted by the amendment. With the property tax law, I am simply amazed that no SRS amendment has been adopted aimed at helping one category of our citizens who were once long ago, while young, beautiful, able and able to make money for their lives, for urban and other reasons they were obliged to build two-story and three-story houses, and now they are alone in those houses. They're playing that empty space. You practically left them a base on that low level, so the taxpayers are property taxpayers to own these immovableities, which is completely unwarranted. We suggested that this base, I think, be raised from 400 grand to a million dinars. And we immediately told the Minister - Ministers, don't worry, by increasing the tax rate from 2 per cent to 3 per cent for the category up to 30 million, whose value is the property, you cover this. But these people didn't make such big houses in the '60s and '70s, not because it was their wish, but because it had to be done like that. And today they are not able to pay it as a tax on property, nor are they able to listen to the advice of Kori Udovicki, Djelic, and those who said, so sell houses and buy less apartments. It would be hard to take anything if they were to sell, because it's usually made on some peripheries. It doesn't even help with the zoning, just to tell you. But when there is no readiness, the will to look at certain basic things, then we come to the conclusion that, in fact, this government doesn't have any economic program. What's common for this set of tax laws is that the government lacks money, so since it lacks money, let's take where we can collect. Is there a system in this collection – it does not exist. Well, here we are, we're proposing to free ourselves from the obligation to pay taxes of voluntary pension and disability insurance premiums, as the minister limited it to three thousand dinars. Why would he get rid of it? Well, it's the state's interest to stimulate voluntary retirement and disability insurance. For a man to take care of his own social status, so he wouldn't care about the state tomorrow. He says – we have concluded that three thousand dinars a month is enough. That's not enough. He probably doesn't know that those private pension funds, disability funds, etc. where a man contributes to his social security and savings for age were essentially large investment funds. The funds would turn several times over the year. The benefits of the state would be incomparably higher. Because it would be a safe asset, safe placement, because whoever provides insurance has to make sure he doesn't lose the substance, because those obligations are coming tomorrow. He answered us nicely – I sat down and concluded that three thousand dinars a month is enough. That's not how it's gonna work. That's no way to run a state. That way you can't run tax policy. Yesterday, who had the courage to listen to him for the last hour could have heard some data, but the big problem is that these data are not contained in the reasoning of the bill. Well, to convince us from the data, the minister that what changes is useful, celery, good and that funds will be collected, and that it will be fairer and that it will fit that general principle that everyone pays taxes according to material opportunities and economic power. He did not persuade us MPs to reason, because we do not have in reason almost any analytical representation, nor what is the tendency, nor what income at this rate, which should be the rate, etc. As for the Law on Income Tax, we finally have to look reality in the eye and say, probably those Turks for 500 years were better than these two governments of ours. They knew, 10% of all, and that belongs to the state. Here we come to the conclusion that we have different rates of tax, and this is about personal income. In the case of an employee, that personal income is called earnings, and with an employee in the administration is wages, and with a private, poor person, who works or works for that cobweb, that's what they say, some of his income, let him earn it. It's personal income, its profit, and it can't be 14% in one, and the other 10%, no matter how mathematically you get to the base at which that rate is applied. The rate has to be the same. Believe me, it would have been a lot easier and much better if this income tax law had been put in place just like this. For all personal income, all cash receipts and all receipts through an individual’s account, a 10% tax is paid, there would be no need for at least 50 provisions. I must draw attention to the absent young man Dinkic and his team. We have a situation where we are praised by a great businessman, who sells impulses to us and who has circled his empire to various firms and thus defined the costs, he also appears as a financier, and he who spends, allegedly. Well, rental cars, so many and so many thousands, daughters when they shoot CDs so many and so many millions, etc. It's a closed system. It's a state in the country. It fits into one NATO concept, it's a government-free government, a parallel government. It may be in these 20,000 NGOs, but it may also be in these ten financial tycoons. One of them recently boasted that every month he took 200,000 euros as a profit and he said he earned it. I don't understand, since I understand that MPs have the highest salary in the country, why didn't you do something with the tax policy when it comes to these garrisons? Why didn't you do something? The privateer, who spends 200,000 euros a month on behalf of his personal incomes, is convinced that what he receives is not his, because if he had kept him, invested him, and he invested it through personal consumption invests and launders money. Tell Dinkic, if he goes after someone once, let him do it effectively, not raise his popularity, this is how I came to the conclusion that he is in a coalition with Bogoljub Karic. Since he started attacking him, Karic has made a party. Change that tax policy, seduce some order. Pick it up. One who receives 200,000 per month on behalf of personal incomes should probably pay twom euros in income tax. He'd probably have to pay. Something's wrong, and for me, it's proof that money is being laundered. I took this example with which he boasts, and there are tens of thousands of other examples that don't boast, which, in such a dim way, are a little funded by this party, a little bit by the way, while it's grumbling. I want to commend, there's one good thing, I guess we'll finally get on the neck of this construction mob. You know, three natural persons provide a location and get permission to make an 8-story, no onions, no onions smell, between five and seven million euros they put in their pocket. Who made it possible for them? The one who gave them the location. I'm telling you this because of the property tax law. There's got to be some sort of seduction. In order to seduce the order, one who thinks the government should first know that the government, first of all, needs to know that it is in power, first it should have a designed programme, not that we have a 15-prime government, each minister is prime minister. It's all separate. If this political part of the government wants to do something, then this economic part says, "no way, I don't have any money for it, I don't give money for it." If this economical thing wants to do, there's this other one, politically. You know, we can't reconcile you if you guys have a lot of fights, we can't possibly make it. Running a state is a serious and dangerous thing. In this set of tax laws, we don't see this thread that goes through and that needs to define economic policy. We see a single verse, we see these individual measures that cover some holes and put some stickers where something is expected to crack. Design a system that can be cheap. Secondly, don't run a double policy, hire policy, agency opening, and here after you whine there's no money, and the short-term obligations are turning into long-term commitments and you're moving your obligation to the future government. Then the future government should now say, we inherited this from the previous one, 20 billion pulled Dinkic out by 2010, and swore there would be no primary show, and in a member of the law he stated he would apply to the burden of the primary show. You know what, you appreciate what we know to read.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10065	I thank Mr. Krasic. Pause until 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10066	Good afternoon again, we continue our afternoon work. I ask the MPs to first determine the quorum. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic system we have determined that we have enough to work with. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Antić, and let Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10067	I apologize to my colleagues for being late in the morning for justifiable reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would consider this set of laws proposed by the Government as a rather bold and risky proposal. The reason for that is very simple. You know we've been expected to enter value added tax since the new year. You are aware that VAT usually means a serious blow, or serious inflation, so I believe that, given what awaits us in the next period of adjustment and transition from tax to VAT, we should count on the situation that is real in our economy. Our economy is without basic resources and will be forced by these changes that expect us from the new year to look for additional funds, primarily in banks, which means that with the big interest these banks have, they can count on a lot of increased operating costs. They will most likely be shifted to the burden of the price and, in all things, as has already happened in some other countries in transition, we can expect more serious inflation. The government has, truth be told, tried to lift checks or phase out citizens' checks and reduce citizens' credits that eventually these inflationary shocks, these inflationary expectations decrease, but given the state of our economy, I think we have a very difficult couple of months ahead of us for all Serbian citizens, and there was no reason to go with this set of laws that would further burden citizens and the very economy of our Republic. What awaits us in the coming period is in any case a fall in purchasing power and a fall in economic activity, so I took the liberty of assessing this set of laws ahead of us, as a rather bold and risky proposal, for which, after all, there was probably no short-term need at this point. True, certain laws are necessary and it is necessary to agree, because of the transition from sales tax to VAT, but the Ministry of Finance has used that fact to further burden citizens, which I say will cause great financial difficulties for all citizens. As far as the income tax law is concerned, I think Minister Dinkic has duped us quite a bit in that explanation. It is true that some tax rates are shrinking, but they are shrinking in those taxes where so far there has been no collecting, with a significantly more serious criminal policy. It counts on the fact that, where no revenue has already been made, the ministry still collects some revenue for the budget. I mean, first of all, copyright, and the minister himself said that so far, there has been no income, so there is no talk of a reduction. If we're going to talk about some absolute indicators, it's probably going to be an increase of 100, 200 or 300 times the amount of financial resources we've raised so far. As for value added tax in farmers, and in previous laws, wherever farmers are mentioned, they are divided into those who are registered and those who are not. I just want to inform the MPs and the public that all about 15 percent of the currently registered agricultural producers, and those who are the richest, those who earn some income from agriculture, and that all these legal solutions, which we favor these producers, are, in fact, the poorest ones we place in the most unfavourable position and we make their difficult financial position even more difficult. As for the property tax law, when transferring motor vehicles, Mr Dinkic boasted that he was also reducing his rate. It is true, it decreases from 5 per cent to 2.5 per cent, but so far most of the citizens have driven their cars mainly with some authority, with some court approval or already what it is called. A reduction of 2.5 per cent is an attempt to collect from citizens another dinar for items, i.e. for a continent on which so far they are not legal funds. And I'd like to say a few words about the property tax on these richer citizens, above all on immovable property. There's an increase in tax from 2 to 3 percent. I could also welcome the move to encourage both the minister and the ministry to continue on this path, as one information is very illustrative for you – regarding the census. According to the last census, we have a very small population jump, but that's why we have about 20 percent more housing than the previous census 10 years ago, which shows that citizens primarily invest in real estate, in residential space, and very little in the economy. That's what's missing Serbia right now. Any stimulation and investment in the economy is welcome. As for the excise law, I think he's a cowardly egg that's inserted into this set of laws. Generally, in all paragraphs, it means an increase in burden for Serbian citizens. My colleagues were already talking about beer excises, and so far they've been gone. It will significantly increase the amount of excise duty in alcohol. I would remind you only that the excise duties in the budget are only 20 percent of the total tax revenue, i.e. from the total revenue of the budget, which means that all of these items, all of these increases are important and that they burden each citizen's budget significantly. This bill does not distinguish between domestic and foreign drinks. It can't be, because there are unnecessary free trade contracts, which our country has no use for, because, unfortunately, we have very poor production anyway, and above all, we should take care of production, and only when we have production could we have free trade contracts, which is why we would spread our market. The fiscal cash bill, and my colleague from Jagodina, he said something, I don't know who Minister Dinkic talked to and negotiated it with, but I'm sure most Jagodina drinkers don't share the opinion of Minister Dinkic and that just introducing a value added tax means that you're already taxing on the customs of goods, in the wholesale of that goods, and we were able to do it in a more pragmatic way, but the ministry has continued to do so, so it fits my claim that these bill proposals are quite impertinent, and I would say risky when it comes to citizens' standards. Finally, given the weather, and I would say that the ministry is investing a great deal of energy in these tax laws and that the good ones are quite well-dressed, ironed and aligned with tax changes, but that it would be much better if the ministry invested a little bit in the development of the economy, because the situation would be much better. The fact is, unfortunately, that the ministry from some macronivo is from above looking at the situation in the Serbian economy, and it would be much better to lower it to a level, some micronivo, every consumer and citizen of Serbia, and to work much more on their condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10068	The People's Messenger, Alexander Vukic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10069	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for a set of laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, these fundamentally fiscal laws are determined in the best possible way for the future to collect taxes and, I would say, relations with the economy in the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I'm going to say a few words about the Excise Act. Namely, Serbian radicals are asking to retain existing excise duties, what we have already voted on here, what you have told us is that the pinnacle of economic science and the current state and situation in which the economy is located in the Republic of Serbia. We had the famous Djelic Law, we had his promise, and his biggest promise, and the most significant thing we see still being maintained, is to the cigarette manufacturers. These excise duties don't change and they can't change for the next five years because someone's made a commitment to individual producers, especially foreign producers, so Philip Morris and BAT, that they don't touch each other in any way, but that's why every other six months we're going to change it, whether it's beer producers, wine. Who knows who's going to buy Rubin tomorrow, who's going to buy another big Serbian firm, and then every month or every three or four months, when someone comes to mind, we're going to go into a kind of business deal with these collectives and these companies, because we're able to raise, drop the excise and according to how many ministers, government or government members in general have for it. It is something that no one who deals with business in this country can support and yet another one in this country known violations of the principles of economic security and, of course, directly related to the violation of the principle of legal certainty. We have a law under which the short-term obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia become long-term and, of course, the end of the fall on 31 December 2010. Now the question is, what is the difference between the primary emissions in the cash and the primary emissions that you carry out in securities of value, or bonds in this way? Essentially nothing, and the question is also raised, and why Minister Dinkic did not explain, he had no intention, he did not want to say, if not to the MPs and if he is not interested in attending the continuation of the debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that at least he told the citizens of Serbia, why earlier he said that he would avoid any kind of primary emissions, and now de facto admit to accessing the primary show, by doing so by transferring the short-term into long-term obligations of the Republic of Serbia and doing so through securities of value, i.e. bonds, and not through cash. Furthermore, about the income tax law, which has already been spoken of by many MPs from the SRS, and what we advocate is to know exactly how and how this so-called SRS works. profit tax. But what matters to us is that we introduce an element of justice and justice in this time. What does that mean? In fact, if someone says it out loud, I have 200,000 euros in salary, so figure out how many millions, and that's 10% of the tax, that's money laundering. Everyone will say that, then it's about money laundering, because it won't transfer in a different way and because for any other financial transaction it's going to have to pay a bigger tax, or sales tax, or pay a VAT or anything that's significantly more than 10% in any case. If someone has such a big salary and something that is abnormal, I took an example, but we have them with 20, 30, 50, and 100,000 euros, etc., so if someone has such an enormously high income, so give people a lot of tax, so if someone has 200,000, so let them pay 30,000 or 40,000 taxes instead, so that at least the state gets more and the less money washes, because it's essentially the best possible mechanism we could apply, that the state is good, and that even the citizens are satisfied. In terms of transition, when most people are poor, when people are hard to live, when people barely patch up the end, when you tell them there are some, if they manage or manage state property, and they have so many incomes, and I'm talking about them as the most recent case, the most drastic case, and they pay 10% to all of that. And nobody gives a shit what we care about, and they pay off 200,000 euros each. Who knows how many millions of dollars it is, I can't even count how many dinars it is. Why the amendments to the SRS MPs are not accepted here, but that the concept and that idea are accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, and that we go with something that is just, with something that is moral and something that has an economic basis, which doesn't destroy legal certainty. Let me, over a certain level, if you're going to pay off the profits in such a way, then it's quite clear that it's not about the profits anymore, it's about the money laundering. That's what we want to change. I warn the Serbian government, I am sorry that Mr Dinkic is not here, that people in Serbia are barely patching up the end, and that there are no stories that are demagogical floscules, such as or such, people, when VAT comes and when new layoffs start, what Mr Dinkic calls restructuring from the new year and in public enterprises big, when this little matter remains running out, we will have a hunger since February and March of the month. It's not just a matter of one government or anything, it's a matter of our strategic commitment. So those who are the most powerful, those who are the strongest, are ever stronger from day to day. Do you think it's common people, that this middle layer that disappears slowly but certainly, officially, people who have lived decently, and live harder, live worse and worse every day, they can look at it and they can take it. I can't. That's our problem. I call on Minister Dinkic to appear in the hall, of course, so he can hear what the MPs think about all this and think about the people. The people are hungry, so the people can't stand this 70,000 dinar democracy, so the people want a fair and responsible power that will precisely redistribute that extra money and wealth that exists somewhere, and the opposite way has been acquired, even what has been legally acquired, and finds a legal and economic justification for the state to satisfy in the best possible way. It is the only solution for Serbia not to be hungry, and for people to feel that they have such a protector in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10070	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these six laws are calculated mostly on one big hack. This wasn't even during the Ottoman Empire. This is impossible to accept, given the fact that last year's budget was much smaller, and this year the budget is far higher. The issue of economics, efficiency and austerity of this government is raised. How can we say that it is a austerity policy, a austerity policy, if we have in mind the fact that only one position is foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget – 41 billion dinars for special services and special goods. Look, somebody's got to pay for it. For those 41.5 billion dinars, the government could buy 18.5 thousand Ferguson tractors for farmers in Serbia. So, it is clear that every household in Serbia this year will have far more burden than it has ever been. As SRS lawmakers have said, there is no increase in production, the budget cannot be filled from the production process, and this is the basic and only possibility of filling the budget - from the production process. You see, excises, then value added tax and everything else that is now proposed, it's mostly calculated to stick your hand in every citizen's pocket, every household. What kind of tax relief is this, what kind of tax exemption is it? It's not about any tax exemptions or savings. It is about increasing taxes and imposing on citizens who are so hard to live on. You remember what in the pre-election campaign, individuals said that the process of production would start, that we would have employees half a million in the next period, that there would be everything and everything, that there would be better to live, that we would have better paid healthcare, better paid pensions, that we would pay particular attention to the social programme, that there would be more people with disabilities, that peasants would get premiums. What do the villagers have? Here, I'll tell you. Ratko Šimsic called me the other day from Fatty and told me he handed over a corn wagon "Stirkari", which is the industry of starch in Jabuca, handed over a corn wagon for 34,000 dinars, 100 metres of corn for 34,000 dinars. What do you not do, gentlemen of the current government, something to enable agricultural product placement to increase. It announces Minister Dinkic's release of peasants from some taxes. They saw that from those positions and that way and so little could be charged by now, because they didn't undress, they didn't have anyone to charge from. Now we have a situation that people, as the previous MP said, were building houses, that peasants were building houses, in their time, with 200, 300, 400 square meters, that they were building numerous objects. Now is the time for Minister Dinkic to tax them. How to free them when they say they have to be taxed, that every square meter must be taxed, because property tax, that will be possible, tax on certain taxes on citizens. We've got communal services coming up now. Now he's gonna go in the package. All those communals that burden our citizens, there's mostly a lot of money being drawn. No budget control, no one controls what local powers do. For example, the budget of the Panchevo municipality is a billion and 700,000 dinars, and 350 million dinars were spent in the previous year for special goods and special purposes. Where did they get that money? Who controls what's charged? We have 7,000 taxpayers. They can't make it to conduct an inspection, the inspections can't get local government, they can't control what they've been doing, where they've spent the last four years. I've already called the budget inspection to come to Panchevo and check where that money is. This is how it is necessary in all municipalities, after elections, to see how money is spent, and it will also be people’s control. That's how citizens have to trust the authorities. Like this, no trust. They say, "We don't trust DOS anymore when they offer us gifts they don't give anyway."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10072	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Yes, please, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10073	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during today's principle debate on the set of these tax laws, allow me to make a few more observations, which my colleagues have not arrived to make in the previous debate, I say. First of all, when it comes to the income tax law. There's no doubt about it when there's a downsizing of certain tax obligations, including those relating to the income tax. I don't think the effects that we talked about yesterday and today about this law are as much as it can be done at first sight. Here's why. In fact, we have a reduction in income tax only in the case of self-employed activities and, above all, for the purpose of equating income tax and profit tax. That's a full excuse. I would also like to draw your attention to several specifics in this text of the law, which do not exactly contribute to the reduction of certain obligations, and above all because some of the anomalies in the previous text of the law have been inherited which, unfortunately, in this part or in those parts has not been changed. Take, say, transportation costs based on arrival or departure from work. We've had a situation so far that 800 dinars are not treated as income and are not taxed as income with 14%. Now that figure is increased from 800 to 1200 dinars. All of this would continue to be treated as a profit the employer would be obliged to account for 14% of the taxes when paying the employee. The anomaly is precisely that in addition to the costs of transport in profits there are costs or compensations based on warm meals, regressions, etc. So basically, when we talk about it, we have two kinds of so-called. gross income on which profits are calculated. Gross in terms of what a worker receives net and gross what we treat on the basis of all these incomes as gross, so we account for taxes and contributions and actually get the total price of one job. It is understood that the Pandan is a provision in a law that will stimulate employers to employ a number of workers from employment records in 2005 and to free them from the obligation to pay taxes on the basis of a 14% salary. That's a good measure. I, fellow Members of the People, at this point draw attention to you that this may be one of the measures that will answer to our MPs. If you think about what I'm talking about, then I'm going to link this story to, unfortunately, the failed law on the National Assembly, which for various reasons has not been found on the agenda of this high house, because we are asking the employer, especially those who will be at the end of the term of office over 50 years, to see us in a working relationship with the explanation that the Eto Finance Ministry will forgive those 14% of the income tax based on the admission of workers who are over 50 years old. Unfortunately, in order for that to happen, we as MPs will have to at least, according to the law, spend three months in the unemployment status of the National Employment Service. I think it's a shame and a shame for Serbia, however poor, and that's why I'll never decide to vote for the government bill before the National Assembly law. At least it should go at the same time. Also, I point to another provision that corresponds to the MPs, and it also corresponds to some others, which is a provision that predicts that those people, those employees who commit themselves to so-called. additional pension and disability insurance for some other institutions outside pension and disability insurance, but only up to 3,000 dinars, their employers will also be freed from the obligation to account for that amount of 3,000 dinars. I strongly advise you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that at least part of these receipts you have in the Republic Assembly should be set aside for that extra insurance, because you should know that we have a very difficult time ahead. It is good, too, that I am sure that by applying the provisions on the income tax of the citizens of none, but I underline no MP will be obliged by that tax at the end of 2004, and I am sure not at the end of 2005. Why? Because the promoter here predicted that in the future, taxable incomes would only be those that are four times the average annual earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs receive only two unfulfilled personal incomes from those paid in the Republic of Serbia. So we are nowhere near it, and even if Toma Nikolic, if there is a future chairman of the Administrative Board, puts that agenda on the Administrative Board, at least equalises the profits of the republican MPs with the profits of the federal MPs. Even if Tomislav Nikolic did so, so this year allows us to receive five average earnings, we will not be taxed again because there we as MPs will have a deductible item called or calculated by applying 40% of the average earnings paid during 2004, so multiply it by 12 and get some 70,000 dinars, and reduce it from a total of 750,000 and get 650,000 dinars that are not also taxed. Why am I saying all this? Not only because of the MPs but also because it is good once and for all, it may be possible to determine the profits that will be taxed. I must warn you that there is something here that has happened, that taxed earnings will be lower than those that are now taxed. Now, this is the case with about 850,000 dinars over one year and all taxpayers, i.e. citizens who receive and earn, will be obliged to pay taxes, and new ones, if applied to 2004, 720,000 dinars would be taxed and it is not fair. It's not fair because it's reality. The average profit is 15,000 dinars, times four is 60,000 dinars, times 12 months a year is equal to 720,000 dinars and that's a tax amount. Now it's worth 850,000 and maybe even 870,000 dinars. There are a few other provisions in this law that are not logical to me. When an employer who directs you on the official trip, with the right to use a private car for official purposes, he can pay you a maximum of 3,000 dinars in one month without additional taxation. This by applying the law's right to grant you that fee and that the bill is a way to apply 30% of the price of gasoline per mile; 30% of the price of gasoline, rounded up by 20 dinars. When someone goes on an official trip from Loznica to Belgrade across a 150km route, they are entitled to a fee of 20 dinars per km and will receive a fee of 3,000 dinars without taxes, but will not be able to return from Belgrade to Loznica because they need to cross another 150km without being taxed as a profit of 14%. That's what it is here absurd. What's the negative consequence of that? That all employers are forced to use their money rationally for some of the investments that will start production by buying official cars, hiring drivers and sending them to the official cars on the official road. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another absurdity about this. I can see that this may not be interesting to some, but when these laws apply, then you'll see how wrong you are not to follow things. Look at the reverse situation. When you own a company, and the company has an official car, so when you want to use it for private purposes, then you use the official car for private purposes as the income of a special kind and is also taxed. You know how they count it? One percent per month times 12 months is equal to 12% of the value of the official vehicle you used for private purposes. Or, if your firm has an apartment in Belgrade, you're going on an official trip to Belgrade, you're supposed to sleep in that apartment, you don't pay rent, it counts as income again. If you pay the rent, it counts as income again. Look at the absurd situations. On the one hand, we're trying to break off our obligations, and that's fine, and on the other hand, we're introducing obligations that are inappropriate. This law will be enjoyed first by children and children on Christmas holidays, as packages for Christmas and New Year's Eve will be tax-free up to 3,000 dinars. I'm not sure if this will apply to the New Year's Packages, because we're going to have to share them before December 31st, and this law comes into force in 2005. I believe we'll be able to do it for Christmas and those packages will be released from this tax. I purposely point to absurd provisions in this law, although I will vote for it, because there are more good things. But look at the peasant who collects secondary raw materials or forest fruits. So far, this has not been the case, but it is now said in this law that these revenues will also be taxed at a rate of 14%, as citizens' income, and that those who earn revenues based on harvesting forest fruits, medicinal plants and secondary raw materials will be entitled to deductions on the basis of the regulated cost of 20%. Now I'm asking you -- who can determine the incomes of those boys you see every day on the streets of Belgrade, who on the tricycles or bikes are pushing piles of cardboard, old paper, glass, etc. Who can determine revenues based on the collection of forest plants, i.e. medicinal plants and forest fruits of peasants who, in their spare time, on a red letter, cannot work on a field or on another holiday with a bold black letter, work in the forest by providing one quantity of supplementary income, among other things collecting 2.3 kilos of forest strawberries and taking it out to the market. I'm talking about a law that can't be applied to one extent is not good to that extent, and it doesn't need to be introduced into the law something that doesn't make sense, and it's not fair. Because on the one hand, we encourage peasants to register as agricultural entrepreneurs, to open their accounts with business banks, which is completely justified, we release, and that is justified, on the basis of income tax on citizens, wheat subsidies, milk premiums, etc., we break the fear of peasants from these and such accounts, and on the other hand we introduce some obligations that never existed and will not be serious about income in the republican budget. We should not fear peasants and make such provisions in a law that cannot and should not be applied. A few sentences about the Excise Act. I could do with a few more things, but I think this is enough for an illustration. Get your excises. Yesterday, the former minister here spoke about it, pretending to be ignorant when it comes to point 8 of the amended article 1a, watching Mr. Vlahovic, and feel free to replicate after this, when speaking on the subject -- what is considered a domestic cigarette. I want to say the next thing. The just previous government in the privatisation of the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje has, among other things, sold the market, above all by accepting obligations based on the determination of so-called. ad valorem excise. We came to the fact that they allegedly paid something more expensive, I'm talking about tobacco industry buyers, and crows, but they gained a monopoly on the Serbian market and dictated all other conditions, because cigarettes from Montenegro and Croatia appear to us with less competitive prices than they do, and our country has committed that excise duties will not increase to a close with 2005 or a total of 5 years. You have an attempt by this ministry to repair the area and that Montenegrin cigarettes can also have treatment of domestic cigarettes, provided that those who produce cigarettes in Montenegro bought enough tobacco in Serbia, and produced at least 2.5 billion pieces of cigarettes. That's a good provision. What happened to 2004? What happened to 2003? What treatment will future tobacco producers from Republika Srpska or are we really going to come to the future that any business arrangement with Montenegro in the category of foreign trade, and that their cigarettes or other excise products are treated as external trade and as non-equal in the game of the market with those who bought Nis and Vranje. I know that Mr. Vlahovic or someone from that government will tell me that, yes, but those who bought Nis and Vranje paid a higher price. I'm telling you -- if positive and negative effects were calculated, the losses would be much higher on the products of the tobacco industry and Nis and Vranje than they were at that point, slightly higher prices compared to the market that has been achieved since the sale of these factories. That's the point for me. The point was that the government had the desire to sell it as soon as possible, to put these funds into the budget and according to the provisions of the Budget Law, as it had spent it, and on the other hand, when we have final accounts for 2001, 2002 and 2003, we will talk and see if these effects are as I speak, or if they were positive, in the sense that we profited then, and at the cost of losing in the years to come. The key question here is whether we and future Montenegro are going to treat as another country, or the moment that these state communities disappear, we will work as if we will, but frankly, that the state community survives and that Montenegrin products are treated as they are, if we want to have a common state with Montenegrins. Some people in Montenegro just need leads in order to possibly go on some stories about how they are likely to separate from Serbia, that they should take a separate path to the EU... (President: You're out of time. ....................................................................................................... that Serbia is the one who is holding back their entry into the EU, etc. That's what I wanted to talk about in the past tense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10074	Replica is requested by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to reply as I am directly mentioned by the previous speaker. First, who knows me, knows that I'm never being ignorant, but that I'm directly saying what I think and that what I'm saying publicly, that's what I'm doing and secretly. So there's no difference. Secondly, the lack of understanding of ad valorem excise, because if the MP who spoke before me had consulted history, he would have seen that the ad valorem system existed until 2000, during the period when his party was in power. The ad valorem of excise duties had nothing to do with the monopolisation of the market and thus the ad valorem system of excise duties could by no means increase the value of the market, i.e. the companies that were in the privatisation process from the tobacco industry. On the contrary, the ad valorem system in a number of ways eliminates the state administration, i.e. the tax administration, the definition of excise duties is according to the predetermined formula, and thus reduces the risks for those who invest money in our country. Three, Montenegro has never been seen differently from a cigarette manufacturer in Serbia. Therefore, the said member of the law on changes and excise supplements will not be able to be explained, with Montenegrin cigarette manufacturers now putting themselves in the same equal position with Serbian cigarette manufacturers. Therefore, your argument about this is simply not true. I will remind you that there is a law establishing harmonisation of customs regulations, customs rates and they equally apply to all producers located in Serbia-Montenegro's territory. Four, as far as Croatia and Macedonia are concerned, the fact was that the largest part of cigarettes imported from Croatia and Macedonia was smuggled and that the amount of smuggling found in 2001 was more than 70%. By that we were, I think, if not recordrs then one of Europe's record companies by the state of smuggling in the area of tobacco products, above all in the area of cigarettes. Among other things, thanks to the situation in this area, in the area of production, tobacco and tobacco products, we had a situation at the beginning of this year where less than 10% was smuggling, which is considered a standard level, which is, among other things, imaginative and highly developed countries. Therefore, the ad valorem excise system has in no way endangered cigarette manufacturers from Croatia and Macedonia. They were threatened by the determined fight of the Serbian state against tobacco and tobacco smuggling, in a way that made one stable regulatory environment, that a stable regulatory institution was created, and precisely thanks to the stabilisation of the environment and the institutions we had one of the best transactions in privatisation done last year, and definitely the best in all of Central Europe in the tobacco industry. The money received from the privatisation of the Nis and Vranje tobacco industry is as an inheritance left to the new government. You remember very well that there are more than 500 million in state funds, which in the funds of local self-government remains of the previous government. I look forward to that 2003 budget report on execution in 2003, and then all MPs will have the opportunity to see how the previous government handled the privatisation revenues in a household way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10076	On what grounds? (Bosko Ristic, from the place: Replica, yesterday the minister called me. Mr. Ristic, yesterday Mr. Minister called you and you didn't ask for a replica, but today. (Bosko Ristic, from place: If there is a ban... ) No, allow me, I will give you my word before Mr. authorised representative of Slavoljub Matic. Now as a replica, you have an advantage. You've been waiting all day, but I think we'll be more rational if I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10077	I thank you for your understanding of Mr. Chairman, but I believe I have the right to a replica as long as this session is being held, because the Rules of Procedure do not limit the time when I can take advantage of that right. Anyway, thank you for understanding all of you. To hear what's going on. Yesterday, Mr. Dinkic, in explaining his views and laws, mentioned me by name and last name and asked me to withdraw the amendment I submitted to the fiscal cash register law, asking for the release of free sellers in the goods markets from fiscalisation for a certain period. On that occasion, Mr Dinkic said that my amendment is contrary to the position of the DS parliamentary group, which advocates fiscalisation and the equal treatment of all taxpayers before the law and before the state authorities. I remain on the table of the amendment, and I would like to say that Mr Dinkic has told a lie, that an agreement has been reached with free market sales unions and that they have given up the requirement to be exempt from fiscalization. I received a letter from the Union of Independence, which includes free market vendors who deny Mr Dinkic because they believe that such a single solution has been placed in an unequal position with other taxpayers, because it is mainly those who have lost their jobs without their will, and there is no government programme to resolve their status. I will give an explanation of my amendment in the discussion of details, but I felt it was necessary to inform the public that Mr Dinkic had told the truth and deceived a large part of the public that an agreement had been reached with the unions on this issue. There is a reaction from these unions and I will share it with the media, who today took his statement for granted and thus explained yesterday's course of session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10078	I pray that we do not give the replicas within 24 hours, especially to someone who is absent in the meantime. The word is given by Slavoljub Matic, an authorised representative of the DSS, and then by Mr Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10079	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, when the finance minister announces tax laws, of course we're all terrified. We Serbian citizens know that the announcement of tax laws means the announcement of new commitments, however, this set of tax laws is in line with the definition of the Republic government that wants to put order into the state of Serbia and try to save some more money. And during 2004, after all the reports and after budget rebalances, we get a chance to make a tax discharge. It is these laws that serve to be a means to relieve both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy that needs to be employed, not to shut down its plants. It's a definition, I repeat it once again, and I fully support such a definition and the Republic Government, and the spirit of these laws that enable it. For that reason, the DSS will vote for these laws. They are another proof that we are on a path leading to Europe. Believe me, this gray economy story is traumatic, painful, but there's no other way. I would like to see someone else organise power in Serbia, which measures would be carried out without being similar or almost identical to the measures the current government is carrying out. The introduction of order costs, we know it well, costs the government's rating, but I think there will be opportunities for the real fruits of this household business to be established in the next election. It seems to me that we will all have equal chances, and those who criticise, support, and those who enforce such laws into life. At the end and the support of one part of the opposition by such laws is the best proof of what I say, and even the mild criticism of the other part of the opposition, and the milk, also proves that these are good laws. They may not be good, except for those examples that the MP Todorovic has shown for a moment. I expected him to add something else. It's a shame the minister isn't here. I'd like to ask him, and that's, it seems to me that discharging the good part is done in that part that's the income of local self-government. I would like them to explain the effects of these discharges, and I hope that during the debate in particular, Minister Dinkic will be present in this room and will allow us MPs, and I will also take advantage of the opportunity on the Finance Committee to ask him a few questions about it. I have not heard from the other MPs that they may have been thinking in this direction, but I suppose in the 2005 budget as well, and the minister himself announced the possibility of rebalancing that budget during 2005, we will have the opportunity to maybe even some of the injustices that may arise after the application of these laws, not according to the citizens, to correct the rebalancing. Because in the end, for the first time, we have the opportunity to apply in a narrow sense strictly European laws. It's a real opportunity to examine the maturity of our society and our country, if we're able to carry out such a thing in life. This is just part of those reforms that we've only talked about for a few years, and now we finally have one serious authority that wants to carry them out both in action and in life. It is, in the end, one great exam, not just for this republican government, but for our entire society. I'm not going to talk about all the benefits, but it's worth reminding that this set of tax laws expands the tax base, which allows for higher revenues by reducing tax rates. It's one fact that we all have to respect. I hope that just voting these laws will show that we are not only a society, but also as a parliament, mature enough for their application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10080	Thank you, Mr. Matice. Here's a word for Miloljub Albianic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10081	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as every citizen of this country is an important solid dinar for which the G17 plus is due, so every dinar in his pocket is important, and so is every tax relief, which now comes after the adoption of the 2005 budget, for the people he refers to is really important. I hear stories here that some of the reliefs aren't enough, that this isn't God-knowing, etc., but I'm telling you about every citizen, every company that this relief applies to is very important, no matter what the amount. I'll remind you of some of the most important reliefs. For all new workers, employers will not pay a profit tax at a rate of 14%. If employed by an employee over 50 years of age, employers will also be exempt from the income tax and pay of all contributions, so that the only cost will be their net salary. For newly employed people over 45 years of age, contributions will be reduced by 80 per cent. And what do these actually get? Well, if we get at least one new job, then we got something. So this creates an opportunity for employers to employ new people, and to report those who are not reported and thus actually reduce the grey economy. Tax stimulation, as we have heard, will not apply to workers in the state administration and to public enterprises and services that are directly or indirectly financed from the budget. Here, in terms of the 2005 budget, we've heard that we want to make such a state administration that is cheaper and more efficient, and it's clear that this kind of relief can't apply to them. So, relief is being introduced into the economy, where a new value is actually being created. Of course, all these reliefs in the next period will be a measurable thing to see the effects, the results. Why are they seeing each other? Well, to be extended for the next few years. Dispersion will be given to construction firms, as from January 1st for employees employed abroad will pay contributions as in Serbia, not as so far, two to five times bigger. It has been heard more than once for farmers – they will be exempt from taxes in Catastrian for 2004 and 2005. For registered farmers, the basic tax base will not be subject to subsidies and premiums. Farmers will pour 30 per cent cheaper diesel into their tractors as of January 1st, which is 17 dinars per litre. And indeed, it's not something huge, but it is a certain relief for agriculture. I've heard more than once, so this government has made the previous budget three times the agricultural budget, and I've heard it's not something. No, but it is a three-time move, so I'm really asking you to explain to people in an adequate way that it is a certain relief. At regressed prices, diesel can also be purchased by construction companies for their machinery and shipping companies. For the cobwebs, the tax is reduced from 14% to 10 percent. As for the bank, they won't have to pay 20% of the taxes on financial transactions and various fees. This creates an opportunity to lower interest. The land transfer tax will be reduced, as well as for car transfers - used. Well, each of us wants to drive a car in his own name. So when a man buys a car from a man, he likes to pass it on to his own and he doesn't have a problem with those papers, with powers, etc. So this is how you think. So this is a move more than the 2005 budget. It is thought about how to slowly, step by step, help economic structures in some ways stimulate positive moves and increase production. Of course, every step can't bring a better step at once, but step by step means that the trend is very important. It is important that we all think that this country, as it has financial and political stability, is starting to do better and that individual people are getting better and better to live, to create climates and environments for future generations and future years. G17 plus will support these legal solutions. There have been objections to why we combine the agenda points, or several points of these laws. And we can't reach the Assembly to make as many financial laws as we can get here, to get it done. So, because of the efficiency of the finance ministry, we actually need to work faster and better. G17 plus will support these legal solutions, but we call on others to support these legal proposals, because they contain good measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10082	Thank you. Just an explanation, Mr. Perry. The president of the parliamentary group didn't use time, so he could talk for 20 minutes, that's all. Do any of the presidents or representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Assets; Proposal for a Law on Taxes on Excises; Proposal for a Law on Fiscal Casses; Proposal for a Law on the Atonement of the Republic of Serbia to the National Bank of Serbia; and a Proposal for a Law on the Tax on Non-life Insurance Premiums. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on the Income of CITIZEN(s) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Meho Omerović, Veroljub Arsic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Sovranje Čonjagić, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic, Milan Stević, Vojislav Milajić, Nemanja Sarović, Milovanovic, Igor Mirović and Sreto Peric. National MP Sovrija Čonjagic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 12. The bill, which he proposed supplementing the new Article 21a. In accordance with Article 142(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee, as untimely, rejected amendments to Articles 30 and 32. The bill was submitted by MP Blagica Kostic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income of Citizens has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and, with correction, Meho Omerovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Meho Omerovic submitted. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Sovranija Čonjagic. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10083	I must agree with the finding that Parliament's work can be more effective if the agenda points are joined, but there is one more effective way, and that is that of this assembly majority of 131 MPs at 10.00 a.m., there will be at least 84 in the O.R. and we will begin at 10.00 p.m. and not at 11.30 p.m. When the afternoon break that lasts until 15.00 hours is over, at least again of those 131 to sit in this room 84 and start on time, it means, at 15.00, not at 16:30, and then we can claim that Parliament is effective and there's no need to discuss it. All that's fast is also short, on that folk's side. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as this amendment is concerned, the motion has rejected this amendment. The question is why, because the amendment does not essentially change the law, but rather determines what are the receipts to which the income tax should be paid. We are now in one situation again that after a few months, it is likely that this amendment, which has been submitted on behalf of the SRS, will be found in some proposals on amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax. The amendment is to add, in point 2 of point 1 after the word "use of residential buildings and apartments", a text that reads - without compensation or at a price significantly lower than the market price. It is about dwellings owned or held by an employer, and these apartments are given to workers or some other users on the basis of some incomes on the basis of which taxes should be paid. Already when we introduced that tax is paid on a warm meal and that it enters into the retirement foundation of a worker, it would be okay if a worker were to exercise the right of an employer and that is why he has a lower salary, that at least that employer would settle those obligations that belong to him under the right of pension insurance, and thus to settle those obligations relating to the income tax of citizens. And that this amendment is only closer to regulating this matter in Article 7 or Article 14a, it is seen in the government's explanation for individual members of the amendment and the addition of the law. The use of residential buildings and apartments is calculated at the amount of the lease at the market prices in which they are located, regardless of whether it is shown in some lease contract and whether the price is significantly lower than or free of charge. So, I'm sure this amendment will already be accepted at one of the next points of the agenda that would be called amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10084	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law relating to Article 14 of this proposal for a law, i.e. the basic text. Articles 13 and 14 of the basic text refer to earnings, i.e. those members are defined by the term profit, and Article 13 states that, under the terms of this law, the earnings made under the employment relationship, defined by the law governing employment relations and other incomes of the employee, are understood. A new position is added where it is said that profits are also agreed fees, and other incomes made through occasional and temporary transactions on the basis of contracts concluded directly with the employer, as well as contracts concluded through youth and student cooperatives, etc. In Article 14 of the basic text, it states that the profit and cost of Article 13, but this intervention was deleted, so it remains to be regarded as other income in the form of bons, cash certificates, shares, other than shares acquired in the property transformation process. or goods, by making or providing convenience, by forgiving debt, etc. After this Article 14, new two members are added to the bill, which is Articles 14a and 14b. Article 14a defines the receipts based on the fact or convenience provided in the sense of Article 14, where it is stated what is all considered to be an act or an advantage. A new Article 14b is introduced, where it is said that earnings within the meaning of Articles 13 and 14 of the Law are also considered to be premiums of all types of voluntary insurance paid by the employer for employees, as well as insurance involved in voluntary insurance, in accordance with the law governing voluntary insurance, regardless of which funds these premiums are paid. The essence of my amendment is that Article 14b of the proposal deletes words and numbers, "Articles 13 and 14." and that it only stands for profit in terms of this law. I don't see why you intervened in article 14 of the current text, so you deleted that call to article 13, and here you left it. The amendment is of a formal nature, but I think it will be much clearer in practice and that there will be no misunderstandings or misunderstandings in the use and application of this law, and that it is also deleted here. These few members refer to the definition of earnings and to the profit, later said, defined in Articles 13 to 14b, a 14% tax is paid. There's nothing more ambiguous or controversial about it. I think it's quite right for us to accept this amendment, although the committee in charge refused and did not accept. I think the Proposer can still change that and accept the amendment, because it's quite in line with what you've already done in Article 14 of the existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10086	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10087	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax is an unconstitutional provision and this provision is severely violated by the principle of equality and equality of citizens, the Constitution guaranteed. I'll explain why I think so. In Article 8, which otherwise treats Article 13 and Article 14 of the basic law, whose amendments and additions are on the agenda today, it is also about income tax. The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, suggested that the percentage of 14 be replaced by a percentage of 10, which means that the rate of income is reduced from 14 per cent to 10 per cent, regardless of what profits are made, whether it is income from autonomous activity, whether it is a profit, wages, compensation, remuneration, remuneration, a contract fee, through a youth cooperative, an agreed fee. So it's all about who made that profit, and the income from self-activity is for the entrepreneur, in fact, his profits. We in the SRS don't think there's a single reason that different tax rates are determined for different types of profits. So, I repeat, the proposal is to cut the profit rate from 14% to 10%, all the profits that are made by some work. Is it a working relationship in a private company, in a state body, in a public enterprise, whether it is the income of an entrepreneur, whether it is made by a contract through a youth cooperative, etc. So if we want this law to have the same effect on all citizens, then it is necessary that this amendment of the SRS be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10088	Anyone else on this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10089	I must warn the promoters that this is a significant amendment, because it has raised the principle of tax policymaking by this government. Because someone thinks we're asking for a tax rate from 14 to 10, it's a principled nature, because every personal income that has the character of profit should suffer the same tax rate. However, what really concerns me is the answer we received from the promoter. He says, "Amendment is not accepted because there is no balance sheet space to lower the profit tax rate at this time." So how is there a balance sheet space to lower the tax rate when it comes to entrepreneurs' incomes? That's where the balance sheet space opened up, there's no balance sheet space here. That's not the reason. This is an excuse, a team before income on this basis since 1 January 2005, following the introduction of value added tax, will largely provide funds to finance local self-government. So local self-government separates some of the funds, and that's why you can't cut taxes. So the government says -- we have to have a big tax rate, because we have expensive local self-government. Furthermore, what follows in the second position of this argument again has the Ministry confused the grandmothers and frogs, and says, "In countries in the environment, which have so-called so-called frogs. Synthetic taxation, in the first tranche of progressive rock... "We have profit and income taxation according to the proportional system, we have no progressive system. Why does someone now insert a progressive system in our response, when this amendment is not about the progressive rate of taxation, and it still gives us bright examples from some environment. So the amendment is of a principled nature. If you have defined, in Article 13, Article 14, Article 14a and Article 14b, what is the basis, i.e. what is profit and which all personal income is equal to profit, then the rate of income tax must be numerically the same with the rate of income tax, the tax applicable to incomes in independent activities and entrepreneurs. In any case, here we have an established imbalance, in the system of proportional rates. It's very simple to understand, it doesn't take much to rush, to build laws here without making any sense. So the government doesn't have a principled attitude about tax policy, it says -- we have a balance hole, where we grab, let's grab here. How much – dwarves. As the government explained, she could tell us that the salary tax for civil servants, according to them, could be, say, 12%, the income tax on workers in the heavy industry 10%, the income tax in the food industry, 17%. We're fighting it right now. I guess everyone has to have equal conditions and equal opportunities to work. I guess under the same conditions, the environment should organize production, and the one in the mine, and the one in the field and the one in the industry. There's something that's being installed here that's forbidden by the Constitution. Citizens in this way are not equal and equal before the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because of this law they are not equal before the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees them the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's unserious how we got the answer to a very important question. That's why I said first thing in the morning - you'd better give 10% to all the personal incomes people receive. It would simplify the process, secure the funds, and all would be equal. Now, you're causing the inequality of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and what you wrote in your explanation is the most common excuse, that you're supposed to need funds and grab what you get.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10090	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10091	It's another in a series of amendments we're trying to fix this law. You know, we come to power, so we care that these laws look like something, that we change them as little as possible. But I can see we're gonna have to do it all over again, because this really doesn't make any sense. This amendment shall cover Article 9. It's a bill of law. You changed Article 17. You removed something you installed a few months ago. These are the coefficients, as they come up with a basis for earning people who work abroad, who are sent from our country through some of our companies. Now, to avoid it, because there's been a multiplication of times 10, etc. you have now given a formula here, and you say: "For the natural persons, residents of the Republic who are abroad for the purpose of carrying out legal persons – residents of the Republic, the basis of the income tax is the amount of earnings which, in accordance with the law, would, in accordance with the general act and contract of employment, be achieved in the Republic." We now add that "to the legal person, the resident of the Republic, who referred him to work abroad". What you said "on the same or similar jobs" in practice can be a major distraction. Any accountant to ask how he's gonna book this, he wouldn't know what you wrote. What to take – collective contract, something fictional, different from profession to profession, from the degree of school preparation to the degree of school preparation. I guess the base is determined towards the resident, according to his condition, according to what he pays for, not the imaginary profits. You have whole categories that you tax on based on approximation. You've been raving on some people, especially with that cobwebs, you've arranged some groundwork, and I'm telling you that these people don't receive it, they don't earn it. So you saw that last time you made a mistake, the coefficient 10 meant nothing. If the basis is to be determined, it should be determined according to the salary that the worker would receive in Serbia, at the firm that directed him and with which he went to work abroad. That makes sense, that accountant knows how to register, that's what a tax collector can do. What you wrote was pure approximation. Then some minister will think that under a legal act, he'll redecorate this, and since it doesn't exist, it's not arranged, this and that base is applied, and then there's another determination that there's not going to be a coefficient of 10 by law, but there's going to be some coefficient far greater than this. If you're here from the presummation that he makes money abroad and that the salary he makes there corresponds to the salary he would receive here, then tie it to a legal person where he's in a working relationship and the legal person who sent him abroad. If you're tied to some averages, some imaginations, then you shouldn't have changed this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10092	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The bill, with Article 18, paragraph 2, in the new point of view of Article 18, I suggest adding the words "in euros", not as proposed, thus avoiding the favouring of the US dollar. I therefore believe that, more correctly in the euro, these expenditures, which are provided for in this way, should be prescribed, as provided for by the Proposer. However, it would be good if the government decided to allocate one part of its funds from those special goods and services and other expenditures for the needs of persons with disabilities and pensioners, at least in urban transport for those with disabilities and pensioners over 60 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10094	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to the 10th Amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The proposal, and I think it does not matter that the government has not adopted it, is important that this amendment adopts this parliament. I'll give you a brief explanation for this. I find the full member of the 10th legal logic, but in attitude 4, he's life-longly illogical. In this regard, it is the fact that no income tax is paid on the remuneration of an employee on the basis of an official journey to the associated public transport operators' accounts. We totally agree. However, the continuation of attitude 4 is completely life-long absurd. It is said that up to 30% of the price of one liter of gasoline, up to 3,000 dinars, for the use of the car for their own purposes. The promoter well estimated that this existing amount of 1,500 dinars should be increased and that would account for 50% increase. However, I must say, this has no excuse. It turns out that this could be misused, and that's one of the wrong grounds for writing the law. We never come from it, we write laws to those who are safe, who are honest, who honor their jobs and tasks. If we leave the view that there will be abuse we must take care of the first category of person, but on the other hand put a certain sanction if it is misused and violated. So, if a person decides to use his own car in official need, that person has put on the line his capital to which he has come in a very difficult way in these conditions of life. Second, this person risks his own life by driving his own life and can endanger third parties and even criminally respond. So there's a big role for that person who uses his own vehicle for official purposes. That's what the legislator didn't take care of. He only made sure there was no abuse. For example, I have stated that one person can go to Paracino, from Belgrade to Paracino on an official trip, and if he has to move on, he will have to pay taxes on it. However, the same situation was just before when the SPS MP spoke, dear colleague Jovo, I fully accept everything he said and support his words from this pay phone addressed to everyone. What I'm saying is that we don't have to tie this price to the price of fuel, because it can happen very quickly to collect fuel and then reduce the mileage that can be changed in these conditions. So I suggested that instead of 3,000 dinars, it binds to 1,000 kilometers. It's something average where one person can use his official vehicle.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10096	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10097	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would not engage in the purpose of such an amendment. I think he's sufficiently reasoned by the promoter. I'm only interested, and I'm asking the government's representative, which means you represent the government in this assembly, because the minister is gone, and that means Mr. Chief of Parliament G17 Plus, who brought prosperity to Serbia, to tell me where you get the idea of not taxing gifts to children under the age of 15 with 3,000 dinars for New Year's Eve and Christmas, and on what basis do you single children from unemployed children? In a much worse state, children are unemployed. They have nothing to buy that gift from, not just to be untaxed. Who are you investing in with this supplement by which the employer will be exempt from taxes on the child's employee? Will the government now allocate special funds, untaxable funds for gifts to unemployed children? Are all children in Serbia equal? I don't think this member of the law should be accepted in this form or that the government should come to terms with it so that some amendments allow children in Serbia to receive a Christmas present and New Year's Eve. If the purpose was to welcome children to New Year’s Eve and Christmas, there are children who do not belong to Christian faith, there are children who celebrate another religious holiday, so when you write bill proposals and when you boast about them, take care of everything because in this country everyone is equal, employed and unemployed, members of one and members of another faith, children up to 15 and children up to 18 years of age. Why don't a kid get a present by 18? I don't know who came up with these restrictions, restrictions on the employment of parents, restrictions on belonging to a particular religion and restrictions on the years a child has to receive a gift.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10098	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10099	I have to say, the laws are written by people who have never worked in the economy. Who spent three days in the economy wouldn't write this. First, about that amendment in the euro, go ask your accountant, accountant and every director and he will tell you what ails he has to do with the billing of dollars, so translation to the euro, as it changes, etc. In this fee that is received for the use of your own car for official purposes, you heard two examples -- from Loznica to Belgrade and from Belgrade to Paracino. That's 3,000 dinars. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the return, everything is taxed. It's the business cost of the company and it's the cost of paying the tax again, because the fuel is paid tax. You're a tax collector. Then you say we're freed here, and here you're making business conditions difficult, you're driving people away, there's no public transportation anywhere. You're making him take a rental car, buy cars official, hire because someone was afraid that maybe some private would pull cash through the fuel costs, show it as a cost, and it's supposed to be untaxed. This morning I was talking about what privates are pulling out big money and laundering money through personal spending. If you want to stop it, limit it by a kilometer per month, per vehicle, by the number of times, by the verification of the regulation which regulates the costs, by the mandatory service book, by the control, etc. It's pointless like this. You gave him the right and immediately waited for him to pay his taxes. It's a business cost. It's like you've introduced a tax on some raw materials that are necessary for the process of production. It's like you've introduced a water tax, air tax. Which is why there is no balance sheet possibility and there is a possibility of abuse. You'll see for yourself who pushes those costs, you'll check the bills, you'll see. Whoever takes care of business wants to be successful, efficient, to develop his business, he won't make these costs suck. You can control it and it's the right of the state, but it's not the right of the state to tax that cost for the second time. Those who did the law, if they had seen little of what practice it was, would have seen that there are internal rules that regulate this and rarely who admits 30% of the highest fuel price, but 19, 20, 25. And there are 15 in the congregation. But no, there's something written here, I don't know who they're consulting, and when there's a problem, it's out of the question. After six months, they slam their heads into the wall and come back. Whoever's doing what, we've been arguing for six months because someone's stubborn and doesn't want to catch reality, but it's destroying everything-- to push through, I've got cards, I've got 131. What does that mean tomorrow in life? Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10100	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Please advisers, consider all three examples, Loznica and Parachin, and Mr. Cimple with a much smaller mileage. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment, the Finance Committee suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and this amendment to the SRS wanted to correct the text of this law, which would be in line with the principles and wishes of the legislators of this law, because it is said that, by adding a new Article 21a, it is to stimulate investment in pension savings, i.e. the third pillar of pension insurance, which, according to a defined economic policy, should be a significant complement to mandatory pension insurance. Article 21a says no income tax is paid on the premium of voluntary supplementary pension and disability insurance that the employer suspends and pays from the employee's salary, in accordance with a law governing voluntary pension insurance, up to 3,000 dinars a month. The position of the SRS is that the exemption from paying taxes on citizens' income to that amount of 3,000 dinars is not a sufficient fiscal incentive and that, in that way, it cannot be built that third pillar, according to the proposal of this law, and that it is definitely not possible in this way to provide greater rights and social security for the taxpayers of income tax, which must inevitably lead to an increase in transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget for social assistance and basic pension rights. And by abolishing this 3,000 dinar censorship, proposed by the SRS, it would allow those citizens who want it to invest in their future in higher amounts, to provide at those times when they can and tomorrow do not depend on social aid or pensions that can be 5, 6 or 7,000 dinars. Voluntary retirement insurance, as a form of savings, should affect citizens to provide security on their own in case of age with their own personal means, but at the same time enables more efficient use and engagement of funds. Taxing voluntary contributions, i.e. premiums, not only does not stimulate insurance, but it prohibits citizens from owning and managing their future social situation. The question arises - why does the Proposer even introduce such a restriction and whether any abuse of this right is possible. We know what the situation is in both Serbia and the economy today and there are very few who will decide to separate more than 3,000 dinars from and from such small salaries for voluntary pension and disability insurance. The number of citizens who will benefit from this right will be minimal. Also, the SRS leaves that reserve possible, if there is a change in the purpose of these funds or the termination of a voluntary insurance contract, the withdrawal of these funds and the transfer to personal consumption, then there may be an additional taxation of these revenues, but at this point we think it would be good to abolish this census of 3,000 dinars, allow citizens, who can afford it and who want it, to separate bigger funds from their own personal incomes for their future. So once again, I suggest you accept this amendment to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-08-0.u10102	According to this amendment, Mr Krasic also wants the word. He'll be the first speaker tomorrow. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
