ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u439	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Before joining the quorum, I would like to remind ourselves that crimes against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija continue these days. Is it too much to say that ethnic cleansing is taking place in the presence, and if not under the auspices, UNMIK-ai KFOR in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Miljana Markovic and Zlatomir Kostic were killed in Stari Gacka on Thursday. To them and to all the innocent victims of terrorist insanity in Kosovo and Metohija, let us honor the moment of silence and let it be a sign of protest over the irresponsible conduct of the international community that closes its eyes to these crimes. Praise them. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Meho Omerović, Velimir Simonović, Zarko Korać, Radoslav Jovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Vojislav Kostunica, and in the morning, Aleksandar Vlahovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the law on the election of the President of the Republic of Rijeka has a National MP Vitomir Plužarević, followed by a National MP, Miodrag Djidić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party in its pre-election activities has also given itself the obligation to put a set of laws blocking certain activities and predicting painful and long-term activities that do not bring fruit to Serbian citizens on the agenda of this parliament. Thus, we have put the draft law amending the Law on the President of the Republic on an urgent procedure for adoption before this Parliament. We didn't want this stalemate situation in the election of the president to produce the majority v.d. The president. We remember well the previous president of the National Assembly, whom we have both citizens and we have already forgotten and the name, how in its own way it has violated the Constitution and many laws, in the hope and desire to provide itself and its like-minded with as long a period of time as possible in this and such government. We Serbian radicals warned the authorities that what they were doing was not in accordance with the Constitution and the Law, which is related to Articles 73 and 87. The Constitution of Serbia. With the voter lists, the biggest problem was, and we pointed out, that a single polling list was established, since the DOS gentlemen had no time, and they didn't have their own Minister for Local Self-Government, who had an obligation to revise and establish electoral lists. Looking at the role of Serbian President from today's corner, it gets the impression that it still suits someone today, that we don't have a president of Serbia, but that it does. The situation lasts as long as possible, and this is linked to all of this and today's situation after the parliamentary elections. I can't help but feel that there are Western Alliance ambassadors in this function today and that they want to implement democratic options on their principle, and that their principles -- the worse, the better. Serbian radicals suggest that by adopting this law, this situation is interrupted and that Serbia chooses a president; Serbian citizens get their president with this law, and those above mentioned who do not want to just get angry in their own way. In this law, with six amendments, we have specifically proposed a solution to this problem. Article 4: "The elections for the President of the Republic shall be made by the President of the National Assembly on the same day as the reasons laid down in Articles 86 and 87 appear. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia." So, the presidential election was supposed to be called, but we were already talking about it, that's exactly what's right for someone. By accepting Article 1 of this proposal, it will no longer be possible to carry out personal will, but it is through automation that the president of the Assembly must call the elections. The Serbian Radical Party was and today is against vain elections and spending of people's money without justification. Article 2 The bill sets out that a candidate has been elected for the President of the Republic who received most of the voters who voted. If the president is not elected then, the re-election must take place within 15 days. We believe that this law should be passed by emergency procedure precisely because of the situation in which we are. Our position is to hold elections at all levels in 2004 and in order to overcome the parliamentary crisis and the economic and rational spending of budgets. So there won't be three or more laps but one lap. If some political options do not want this proposal to be accepted, they make it clear that they support this situation in the area. The DOS has shown what it stands for in the previous period, in the last elections the largest number of mandates gave to the Serbian Radical Party and we want to change all laws that do not comply with the Constitution and that are not in line with real life. The most important thing is that the proposal provides for the election of Serbia's president in the first or second round. Time is running, and we still don't have the President of the Republic; this is what we need with this bill of law to break and to choose as a people by the law of the President of the Republic. So on December 29th, 2002, the mandate of the legally elected president of Serbia was officially suspended. Our candidate for Serbian President Mr Tomislav Nikolic and we as the Serbian Radical Party have lost a great deal by this existing law, which has so far been in force, and has particularly lost the people. That's another reason why we're here for this new bill. Certainly, the political map in Serbia would be read differently in favour of our people, but we Serbian radicals expect our president to win these new elections, and then everything will be radically better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u441	The People's Messenger Miodrag Djidic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Dragan Sormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u442	Dear fellow MPs, MPs from the Democratic Party list -- Boris Tadic will not vote in favour of the Law amending the law on the election of the President of the Republic, for the same reasons they did not do so in the previous assembly of the National Assembly, as nothing has changed since then. It is still in force of the Constitution, which was then a member of 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes the powers and powers that the President of the Republic has. These powers and powers are much closer to the presidential system than to the parliamentary system that applies to us. I will remind my fellow MPs that the president of the Republic decides on war and peace, in case the National Assembly cannot meet; he also declares war; he heads the armed forces in war and peace. These are the powers that certainly require 50% of Serbia's citizens to go to the elections and that the legitimacy of the elected president of the Republic. Whether we can achieve that now is a question that should be answered by citizens of Serbia. I'm sure when we have the right candidates, Serbian citizens want to go to the polls and want to vote. I remind you that in 2000, Mr Vojislav Kostunica had the strength and managed, along with other presidential candidates, to take 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the elections. Why this is not possible today, why today, after only three years, Mr Vojislav Kostunica cannot perform 50% of Serbian citizens with other candidates -- that's the thing his party should be thinking about. It is obvious that after those elections, the man who trusted 80% of Serbian citizens today fell to only 14-17%. Another big reason why 50% of the election has to go to the polls is Article 88. The constitution, which determines how the term of office of the President of the Republic ends, should it violate the Constitution. It is clearly said that if we can resolve the President of the Republic at all, two-thirds of the MPs in this assembly need agreement. When that condition is met, at least 50% of the people and all 50% of the people must vote for a resolution. You will admit that this is very difficult and that this is inconclusive, which means that what Serbian citizens can choose from the President of the Republic, but that it cannot be resolved in any way, and I say that the powers of the President of the Republic are really great. We have heard here that this does not happen in practice, that there is no question of the resolution of the President of the Republic, and that seems to me, from the applicant of the proposal Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'll just remind you that it's not exactly like that and that just 10-11 years ago, the SRS in the federal parliament launched and, together with the Socialists, voted for mistrust with the then-President, SRJ Dobrica Cosic. We also heard here that parallel law does not require 50% plus one citizen to be elected, however, that is not true either. You now have in Russia elections for the president of the Republic and there is a demand for 50% plus one voter to go to the elections. I know it's very important to elect the President of the Republic and the DS has taken a step in the previous session to achieve this, when it abolished the censorship in the second round. So that step is done, but I don't think we should do this second step, at least while these powers are in the Constitution. If the Constitution changes, then two things should be considered: whether to reduce the powers of the President of the Republic or, perhaps, a better variant, that parliament chooses the president, that the president is not elected directly. It's a matter of thought. What's for sure is that when citizens have someone to choose, they go to the polls. Citizens came out on December 28th, over 60%, to elect MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Assembly has legitimacy and citizens want to vote for the Assembly, and the President's question may be treated - since greater legitimacy has the Assembly, because citizens have greater confidence in the Assembly - so that the Assembly chooses the president in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u443	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u444	Just one explanation to the predecessor, who mentioned the SRS, about the way former SRJ President Mr. Cosic was replaced. It has absolutely nothing to do with it, nor can there be any analogy with what we have today or with what we have in the bill. It is a very simple reason: therefore, Mr Cosic was elected to parliament, Mr Cosic was transferred to parliament. It has nothing to do with the direct will of the people. So what we're asking here is that what is directly chosen, that the censorship is reduced, because there is a possibility in this kind of, I would say, bipolar Serbia, in a political sense, in such a division that we have -- every time someone who would want to block the President's choice in a serious way, could do it. If the SRS does not highlight its candidate for the presidential election, there is no change in the law, there is no withdrawal of the censorship in the first election round, all others together cannot perform 30-35% of voters. Of course, and say everyone else in this so-called. "DB" that they won't go out with their candidate and we make it clear -- people, it's impossible to extract 50% of the total electoral body. It's something that seems logical to us, especially in these conditions, it's not against the constitution, it's not opposed to other laws, and it's not imposed as some kind of lex specialis, but something that can be accepted, and at a given political point it's essential. I said, when there's talk here about the Constitution, about making a new constitution, the SRS is about establishing first, about seeing what's wrong with the existing, what's that supposed to be different. We don't mind seeing how and how the president is elected in parliament. We are in favour of strengthening the legislative authority, so let it be a monocessary executive power, and we also have nothing against it. There is absolutely no need to continue torturing the citizens of Serbia, to torture ourselves with empty stories about how impossible it is because they are not good candidates. They're not good candidates? Well, run and get 50% if they're not good candidates. It's easy to criticize and attack and say so. Okay, none of us are good, you're good, run for office, see if you've got that much or not. I don't think you do, and I think you know that well. When such a situation is in Serbia, let's honestly admit what the situation is, let's see who's best, see who has the most supporters, who has the most trust with Serbian citizens, and thus choose the president. I think it's the best solution, and the thing with Dobric Cosic and his impeachment in parliament, the SRJ has absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u445	The People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u446	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can express my satisfaction that I, as well as the DSS parliamentary group, will support this bill, not because I am one of the favorite MPs in the ranks of the DSS Parliament Club, but because this is a good bill, which needs Serbia. Of course, it wasn't complete, so we had to, by that bill, at the previous agenda point, fix it, so after the adoption of these two laws, finally in Serbia, we would be able to choose the President of the Republic in the right way. I didn't expect, after yesterday, some serious appearance by the MPs in the ranks now of the former government. Now we've heard, I've been a little surprised again by such an act and such an empty story, but apparently this trend of their lack of understanding of the people and the electoral body in Serbia continues. They've been estranged for the past three years and it's no wonder, probably because some of their presidential candidates are getting 40 votes in their own assembly, and here they're still giving lectures on various topics. Among other things, we heard about the first two points of the agenda. But what you're going to do is probably in the election for their home council they'll be able to get a little more and get elected. (Glasses: Theme – is that on the agenda? But let's get back to the agenda, sir. So this was a small introduction, for you to whisper out of the back row, which you have reduced to such a small number because you have no contact with the people. That was the point of this story. Gentlemen, if you knew a little bit about the citizens of Serbia, you would know that it has nothing to do with this story of yours, which they have told in time, even after those first failed presidential elections, the late Mr. Zoran Djindjic, and to God and Mr. Vojislav Seselj, which is that they are candidates and that they did not go to the elections because of the cadet citizens. Simply, this censorship is absolutely unnecessary. In most European Union countries, including other democratic countries, where the president is elected, he does not exist, he is unnecessary and he is unthinking. Like this, the current law always allows someone to boycott the election and bring confusion among voters. Once we have abolished the censorship in the first and second rounds (in the second round), a boycott will be devised and then we will be able to have the beauty of candidates and guaranteed, knowing the mentality of Serbian citizens, in the presidential elections, when they are soon announced and held, more than 50% of the electoral bodies will come out, because no one will force them and no one will call them not to go to the elections. We've got a little bit of that I.D. on us, and then that's why they get results like that. When we lift the censorship, we'll all see together that more than 50% of Serbian citizens will go to those presidential elections. I am convinced 100%, as I am convinced that the winner in those elections will be the candidate run by the DSS, regardless of what the SRS gentlemen believe will win, and no matter when they are held, whether in 60 days, shorter or slightly longer periods, it is completely irrelevant. I simply invite you all to this law, as well as the previous one, to vote and then we will have one knight's campaign and a knight's struggle in which, of course, the best candidate, according to the citizens' criteria, will win, and I am convinced that it will be the DSS candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u447	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u448	I don't want to, and I don't want to bother you, I just want to discuss this statement by Vojislav Seselj two years ago when he was third in the presidential election. So the political situation has changed drastically. At that time, we had three extremely strong presidential candidates, who received almost the same number of votes, from 25% to 29.7%, so in 5% there were three candidates – Kostunica, Labus and Seselj, and Serbia was divided into three parts. Then it turns out that when one of those three doesn't come out there's not enough to get out of 50%. Imagine today, when Serbia is divided into two political blocks, obviously, since it will be clear that there is power and opposition and that people will decide in such a way, whether there is a possibility that someone will perform 50%. Mr. Seselj then made it clear that both candidates were racing to defuse the SRS candidate, of course you remember that famous story, picking up and counting the votes of the SRS, that is, how many people voted for the SRS, and how many other political parties voted there, so we also had this example after Mr. Nikolic's victory in the presidential elections, how many votes there were, and how many others, so we finally came to the polls and analyses so that no one would vote for the SRS. Fortunately, parliamentary elections were held only two months after the presidential elections, and yet we have come to the conclusion that more than 95% of these voters are voters of the SRS. So that's the fundamental difference in the time we're talking about, the moment we're talking about and the political scene of Serbia at the moment we're talking about. On the other hand, of course, we hope and expect that knight's campaign. I think we had a good and fair campaign for the President of the Republic at the end of last year. We hope to have such a campaign this year, although, of course, you can never expect it from the authorities, especially not from the newly established, but in every kind of fair and knighted campaign we will win. But there's one more thing you should know. You can't talk about the Serbian Radical Party in any way – that it has not participated in such campaigns, because it has never had a share in stealing votes, in stealing voter's will, or in running a hickey through certain media, as it has led against us, especially through B-92 TV, so we will make a full contribution. If you want such a knight's campaign, we invite you to go out with the best candidate and see who will be the winner, and I am sure that almost all Serbian citizens already know the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u449	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u450	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the DSS will vote against the bill. Although several speakers here state the reasons which, in their essence, are based primarily on the powers provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for the President of the Republic, I would only stick to two points of Article 83. The Constitution. One refers to the power to conduct foreign affairs provided for in the Constitution as a jurisdiction to be governed by the law. The second concerns the authority of the President of the Republic to manage the armed forces in war and peace. As we all know, of course, at this point, when we have the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, both of these powers are, when it comes to military issues in general and foreign affairs almost in general, at the level of the state community. Although my deep belief that the state union with Montenegro and the common state with Montenegro is the best possible state solution for both Serbia and Montenegro, although I know it is the opinion of most political parties in Serbia, the question is, how will the state issue arise between Serbia and Montenegro. Nobody knows that right now. Hypothetically, we can come to the conclusion that after a certain time, the president of the Republic of Serbia is really authorized to run foreign affairs and operate the armed forces. Now, imagine a situation where that President of the Republic would be elected with a very small number of votes. The latest elections suggested that around 40% of Serbian citizens with voting rights went to the polls. This raises a question, or rather, a dilemma between the legitimacy of the exercise of powers with such great and powerful powers on the one hand and, of course, the need for the state to get the president as an institution and the institution provided for by the Constitution and constitutional law. The question is, what's the alternative? I think the Constitution has given quite an adequate solution. If there is not enough power in the electoral body to elect the president of the Republic, then it is quite possible that until such a political situation is put in place that 50% of the citizens come out and give their opinion on who should exercise such great authority, that power is being exercised by parliament's president. So, there is someone who can exercise presidential power in Serbia and if there is no President of the Republic. The Democratic Party also shows its consistency. Therefore, Dragan Masican is not elected by the Democratic Party's will, but the Democratic Party thinks it is better that the president of parliament exercises the presidency if there is not enough citizens to express their will on who should be President of the Republic. For what? This raises the question of impeachment in the full and true sense of the word, because it is possible for a very small number of votes in relation to the size of the electoral body in Serbia to have such great authority to manage the armed forces, to run external affairs, to even bring such general acts with the legal power on exceptional occasions, to be the power in full capacity of that word, and to call it back almost impossible, because (other MPs have spoken) it is necessary to declare two-thirds of the MPs on this point and more than half of the electoral body. Parliament's president can be replaced by a much easier procedure. At this point, therefore, there is a presidential power in Serbia, and the presidential authority is being exercised by Dragan Marsican, but the presidential authority has its legitimacy and its source in this parliamentary majority. I am sorry that it is unusual for this parliamentary majority, which is the source of the presidential power, to be the party of Vojislav Kostunica, the party of Miroljub Labus, the party of Slobodan Milosevic; these are simply political opportunities in Serbia at the moment. But that same parliamentary majority can replace Dragan Marsicanin tomorrow if he does not exercise the presidential power correctly. I think that's the point, and it's better for Serbia to stick to a legal solution like this and not put itself in trouble for a great power to get someone who has little votes, because there is an alternative. The alternative is this parliament. 60% of citizens participated in the elections for this parliament. This parliament has the capacity to decide on such issues essentially. As for the midwives who speak here about the Democratic Party, I can tell you - if you start trying, in ten years you can start to look like the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u451	Replica, Dragan Martian. With a note, don't let God make me look like the Democratic Party, just the following: the arguments you made by mentioning my name and the function that I am temporarily performing are arguments in favour of voting for the proposal to abolish the censorship. While there was a censorship, one of the candidates, it was Vojislav Kostunica, who received more votes in the elections that were declared unsuccessful than I, as president of the assembly, received votes through parliamentary groups that supported my election. So all the arguments you've made, do you know a little bit of math, are arguments in favour of abolishing the censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u453	The word is Milos Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u454	Zoran Krasic before, then Milos Jevtic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u455	The citizens of Serbia should be clear what is being discussed today. The draft law amending the Law on the election of the President of the Republic is under discussion. This proposal must be adopted because it is in accordance with the Constitution. Fortunately, if it had been adopted earlier, Serbia would have the President of the Republic, it would have one organ that must have. I warn citizens that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, like all constitutions on the globe of the Earth, does not predict the situation that there is no organ. Unfortunately, because of various abuses, we are in a position not to have a president of the Republic for 14 months. And here, political visionaries who come out tell us that we don't need the President of the Republic, so they measure the President of the Republic a kilo, two, three, to draw some theories, to me unknown, but unknown to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What is he objecting to this bill? There are two kinds of objections. One is – when this law should enter into force and when the president of the National Assembly should call the elections. The second remark concerns the majority to be elected by the President of the Republic. The solution is found in the Constitution, in the provisions of Articles 86, 87 and 88. Those provisions don't know the situation that the President of the Republic doesn't have. They allow the possibility that if the president of the Republic ceases his term before the time he is elected to, for 60 days Serbia has the acting president of the Republic, and that is the president of the National Assembly. The 61st day is an unconstitutional state. There is another provision that speaks of the deputy president, when the president is prevented from performing his duty because of sickness, travel abroad, etc. So, the National Assembly does not have the opportunity to think in a different direction, but rather to amend those provisions of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic that predicts the failed elections. This category does not exist in the Constitution. So, if the president of the Republic resigns or otherwise stops his term before the time he is elected, Serbian citizens are obliged to elect a president within 60 days. It's a constitutional condition. There is no room for censorship, no place for unsuccessful elections, no room for any reason, no condition for Serbia not to get a president by direct vote. The second conclusion follows: the proposal of all those who suggest that after the adoption of this law someone has the right to consider when he will call the elections, even if he is limited by a 60-day deadline, is deeply unconstitutional. It is also unconstitutional, as in previous law, that provision that the Constitutional Court has eliminated from legal life, which has been given the right to the president of the National Assembly to consider whether to call the elections. There is no difference compared to that proposal, which suggests that the president of the National Assembly is considering when he will call the elections. The Constitution never gives anyone that right. And when it sets deadlines, it's the last deadlines, the last days in which it has to end. Therefore, the powers of the President of the Republic are not today's subject. The resolution, i.e. the recall of the President of the Republic, is not today's topic, and it is quite normal, the constitutional practice knows that, when it comes to impeachment, more rigorous conditions are being put in place - that the president has violated the Constitution, that a special two-thirds majority should be raised to the referendum and that in the referendum a large majority of citizens vote for it. It's totally consistent. Whoever makes any connection between the majority for resolution or impeachment and the majority needed for the election makes a big mistake, because the constitution is clear, precise, and for the choice of the Constitution does not ask, he says - within 60 days, the Republic must get the president. Anything that bothers the president's election must be eliminated from the law. The fact that someone was once chosen by both the qualified majority and the censorship, it was then, it was not a condition that made it impossible to choose, because there were spaces from which voices were drawn, as they are now, and within the next item of the agenda, it probably creates space for others to draw their votes and provide some success on the political scene. So, today's topic is clear, simple, no need for many visionaries, no need for later laws that come before on the agenda of this law to cut one hair into four and patent some new way of cutting, and then the manual says - it's only applied to trimming bald ones. This visionation, please, throw out, no matter how much this National Assembly is lay, it must not be naive, so it brings in something that is impossible. We, the President of the Republic, must have an emergency. Had there been more constitutionality and legality than the day this assembly was established, the president had to call elections to elect the president of the Republic of Serbia, as two minutes earlier this assembly would have passed the law we are talking about today. It's not done. It wasn't done, because someone estimated that neither by new nor by old law could anyone be elected president. The National Assembly cannot be the victim of someone's desires, dreams, dissatisfactions; someone would like to be president, but there is a small problem, people won't vote for him and that's why Serbia doesn't have a president. It's an impossible, forbidden situation. The Constitution only knows 60 days of condition in which V.D. exists. President of the Republic. Sixty-first day of the constitution is not seen and therefore this law must be passed by emergency procedure and, of course, an amendment must be accepted that says that the next day from the date of entry into force of this law, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to call elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, there is virtually no need to vote on the previous law, which was obviously for one-time use, until this coalition called "desperate" is formed; since you have formed despair, there is no longer any reason to vote on a legally pointless law on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. The warning of new ones coming to power, just to remind myself, while the opposition they've advocated, they're always pushing for it, so in the Assembly they suggest, when they're in power, then they're going to impose, there's something in common, to take care of it, because it's being recognized. That distance from the truth, it's a distance from the Constitution, from the law, it's recognized and in this assembly it's going to be branded fiercely. The constitution, however it is and when it is brought, whoever brings it, must not be broken, must not be trampled. Anyone who proposes a law must first look at the Constitution, not a law that can be completed, because by supplementing the law, it practically amnests the condition we have encountered, because it is supposed to draw some right out of abuse to prevent that abuse. Two minuses are given plus, thus legalising lawlessness, lawlessness and the situation that Serbia does not have a president of the Republic. Anything you see more, you will be in a position to disgust people with the idea that Serbia should have the President of the Republic. So I address the citizens, very simply and simply, by saying that this is legally impossible, the Constitution does not know it, we want to correct it, we want elections to be discussed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and to choose your president, with the powers that the Constitution gives, and he gives him these powers; when you change the Constitution will probably be some other authority, it will probably be by some mathematics to choose the desired president. During that time, vote freely for this law, it is not complicated, it can simply be understood, nothing hurts, and Serbia is helped to get, in accordance with the Constitution, its president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u456	The People's Messenger Milos Jevtic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Arsen Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u457	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, I will shortly return to the DSS bill, which actually proposes to fill a legal void, and it makes complete sense for the Democratic Party. So he allows the president of the assembly to call the presidential elections within a certain deadline, which, according to us, is fully fit and is 60 days. On the other hand, we have a proposal from the SRS that suggests a complete elimination of the census. On many occasions, we have heard that DSS MPs are ready to support this proposal, and for this very reason I do not see any logical link, or logical order between these two points of the agenda. The DSS bill actually forms one category that represents actually failed elections. In that case, by adopting both legislative proposals, which is theoretically possible, we would be in a paradoxical situation. Another thing that's symptomatic for me is that there's actually a kind of presidential campaign going on here and both MPs' clubs actually want to get that bill that fits their candidate. I think that if we have an institutional crisis and, as some MPs say, we don't have a president of Serbia for a few months, just over a year, that problem should be solved institutionally, in fact by one system law that will give a solution for a longer period of time. Serbia has actually known this kind of institutional crisis for many years. Since 1997, we don't actually have a legally elected president. It is known that Milan Milutinovic was elected under very suspicious circumstances and that only the silent amnesty of the SRS is an apparent election theft. So this institutional problem cannot be solved by an ad hoc law, which will first and foremost be created according to some personal aspirations of one candidate or another. We need a system law that will sort out this matter in a fundamental way. As far as the Constitution of Serbia is concerned, we all expect this constitution and there is a very broad consensus about bringing it as soon as possible, the Constitution will certainly treat this matter. At this point, none of us can prejudge how Serbia's president will be elected. If you consult comparative legislation and parallel law, you can find a whole range of different solutions and I can argue that none of us at this time can say with full certainty whether the president will be elected in direct elections, so directly, or be elected by parliament. As far as the censorship itself is concerned, it is not true that all European countries or that a large number of European states do not know the electoral censorship. It's one of the countries that both the DSS and the SRS, so Russia, still knows the censorship for the election of the President of the Republic. So, I think it is quite wise to wait for the new solution that the Constitution will provide for, so on the basis of such a solution, a new electoral law. The reason the Democratic Party will not support the SRS proposal is of principle character. First of all, it refers to the large imbalance or discrepancy that we would get in the situation if we passed this law. The procedure for electing a president would be quite simple and theoretically the smallest possible number could choose the president of Serbia in the elections. As far as the impeachment itself is concerned, it is extremely complicated and predicts, as most of my predecessors have mentioned, an extremely complicated procedure that in practical terms prevents the president's impeachment. That's 2/3, so the qualified majority in parliament and 50% plus one of the eligible voters. The reason why the Democratic Party will not support this proposal is not only about the powers that the president currently has, because in parallel you have other examples, such as the President of France, who does not mention censorship in the electoral law, and he is the president with the greatest powers in all European countries. So the principled reason why the Democratic Party will not support this law concerns, above all, a marked discrepancy in the election process of the president and his impeachment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u458	Replica, Mr. Wolf, replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard an interesting but incorrect presentation of the Democratic Party's representatives. So it's interesting that Mr. Jevtic told this speaker that the Serbian Radical Party has absolved someone who has won Milan Milutinovic with silent amnesty. In fact, Mr. Jevtic would have to know who brings amnesty, ablation, if they were different legal institutes, and he would have known that we weren't competent to do either one or the other, even if we wanted to. On the other hand, if he meant in a moral-political sense, the Serbian Radical Party has never done so. So, following the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 24 March 1998, in several editions of our party list, we published texts on large theft, and until September 1998 we conducted proceedings before the Federal Constitutional Court. I personally represented the Serbian Radical Party and we fought for the truth to emerge, but what to do when they "proved us" that 742 people came out in Donji Prekaz and voted for Milan Milutinovic. The Lower Prophet, if you remember, is the foothold of Adem Yashari. There's a question of what we could have done, what we should have done except point it out to the public. Should we have gone to the boggers, bulldozers at the Assembly, on Serbian Television, did we have to kill someone, did we have to burn something, crash, like you did? Is that what we should have done, so we can prove our commitment to truth, justice and justice? The Serbian Radical Party has proved its desire and will for truth, justice, justice and fair elections since 1990. In 1990, Mr Seselj was banned from showing up in the elections, and since 1991, every election has participated, and today, I would say, the electoral headquarters of the Serbian Radical Party is the basic political parameter that listens and respects all the media, but also all the citizens of Serbia, because they know that no lie has ever come out of that election headquarters, that when we lose the elections – Serbian citizens, we are sorry, we are hard, but we are losing the elections and we congratulate our political opponents. When we win the elections, we also get to know Serbian citizens equally zealously. So, it seems to me that the Serbian Radical Party has so far had the clearest and most honest relationship and we have never stolen anyone's mandate, in any assembly, was power, were the opposition, but never before. I don't think you'll find such an example. As far as campaigning is concerned, it's our job to deal with politics and do it. I wonder why you say that. Because there's no campaign you could run without her being successful. No campaign, no censorship to which we could let you go, and that your presidential candidate could do something more serious. The third thing, as far as countries inclinated by the Serbian Radical Party are concerned, we want to co-operate with everyone. Do we love Russia, do we respect Russian rule, Russian state? Yes, of course. But, you know, those you don't incline, but those who (or some of their services) issued warrants in some previous period, the United States, Germany, France, the OSCE, have asked to abolish the censorship for the election of the President of the Republic. I guess you didn't read it in the paper, so I guess you didn't take care of it. Don't let us take you by the hand and take you to Europe; we want Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, but we don't have to explain such things to you. I hope, and don't worry about the presidential campaign, don't bother yourself too much, spend your resources, spend your money. Take care, you'll need it. You fought, you didn't fight, you ran, you didn't run, we're gonna beat you up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u460	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u461	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have come forward to present Mr Yevtic from the Democratic Party. Last time I explained and talked about how the Serbian Radical Party, by accepting to join the government of the Republic of Serbia, given by Milan Milutinovic, accepted the legality of Milan Milutinovic's election and would not return to it. Serbia's democratic opposition also received a mandate from the same Milan Milutinovic to form the former republican government. Mr Zoran Djindjic received a mandate from him to form the Republic government in January 2001. For two years, Milan Milutinovic was the president of Serbia at a time when you were in power and don't pay attention to each other for some theft, and before that, at the last point of the agenda, you got all the strength to confirm that you couldn't allegedly replace or undo a decision that was obviously taken with the theft of votes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You can't hide your theft by transferring them to someone else in the past. After all, as Mr. New Democratic Party Vice-President spoke about Slobodan Milosevic's party earlier, you saw what it looks like when Slobodan Milosevic, the Socialist Party of Serbia and his list of supporters. That's how it was in the election assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u462	The People's Messenger Arsen Đuric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of God, Božidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u463	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia, as a responsible party in front of its voters and citizens of Serbia, will support the bill amending the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, proposed by the SRS parliamentary group, in a part relating to the abolition of the censorship, to finally get Serbia's president, and after 14 months we leave the V.D. states. The previous government has done its utmost to ensure that the presidential elections fail, from the impediment of voter lists to the lack of censorship for the election of the president, probably because of the inability to find their own presidential candidate and the fact that these elections will lose, while talking about Serbia as a modern country to enter Europe. I am not sure that such behaviour, violation of the Constitution and the law can enter Europe. It is common knowledge of our commitment and the story of the necessity of building institutions in Serbia in order to become indeed a modern and orderly European state. After the elections were held, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established, its president was elected and I hope that in a few days we will get one responsible government that will move towards solving the accumulated problems and creating one legal certainty and a positive environment for investors who are interested in investing here, and in a few months we will get a new president of the state. We think it would be extremely irresponsible to call the presidential elections before the census is lifted, because the possible failure of these elections would cost our taxpayers several hundred million dinars, and that is, you will agree, luxury and for far richer states than we are. For all this, I repeat that the Democratic Party of Serbia supports this bill. There is no reason to worry that the presidential elections will not be announced soon after these laws are passed and their entry into force. The election will be called and I sincerely hope that our candidate, as before, will win them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u464	The People's Messenger, Bojidar Koprivica, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u465	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, on the agenda of this high house's session today is the draft law amending the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. Since conditions have been met, the legal conditions and conditions laid down in the Constitution of Article 73 and Article 87 which regulate the way the President of the Republic, which is by law, the SRS parliamentary group submitted this draft law. The bill, as you know, abolishes the censorship in the first round, and that is most important, because the existing Law on the election of the President of the Republic has so far shown no results in practice. These lawyers, the practitioners, well know that only the law that is applicable is good, which the practice has not denied and can live in everyday life. I'd like to remind you, this law was passed in 1990. It was changed twice in 1992 and 2000. Under this law, elections were called three times: twice in 2002 and once in 2003. Never once has the President of the Republic been elected under this law. Why? Because it wasn't provided by most of the law. Now I'm going to remind you again what happened back then. The then acting president of the Republic simply did not want to call elections for the President of the Republic. Practically, it depends on her will whether our republic has a president or not. In vain, the SRS MPs then indicated that the law was respected, they sent voices of reason in vain. It was supposed to be their alarm bells to respect the law. But that's simply what the former DOS didn't want to hear. You know why? Because then it was in vain to whisper to the deaf, it was in vain to wink to the blind. That's when DOS's majority worked illegally. Imagine, she was stealing in the congregation, behaving arrogantly, undemocraticly, even though they were so-called. DB. Exactly, they were acting autocraticly, so the people, as Supreme Judge, punished them in the elections. That's why he rewarded the responsible, honest and honorable policy of the SRS. Serbia must have institutions, it must have a president of the Republic. That's why I'm appealing, and that's why I went out for this pay phone to convince you that this law is good and to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u466	The word has a folk MP, Jovan Palalic, and then Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u467	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, at the beginning of this session, we haven't shown enough economics. Namely, the fourth and fifth points of the agenda of this extraordinary session, which are the draft laws amending the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, proposed by the DSS and the SRS, had to and could be united in one item of the agenda. These laws are mutually conditioned, solutions are interlinked. They are compatible and, I hope, only together are solving one problem that has been discussed in Serbia for a year and a half -- how to remove legal obstacles to the election of the president of the Republic. These days from this pay phone said that the debate on these draft laws that are on the agenda of an extraordinary session is wasting time and that no one is interested in these laws, other than us politicians or MPs, but the truth is something else, that we are wasting time discussing these two compatible proposals to the law within two points of the agenda, and not within one, as the DSS has suggested. This is because some, driven by strange impatience, set out in the presidential pre-election campaign, building some projections on unnamed public opinion researchers. That's why this pay phone was more about forecasts and public opinion research, and very little about the quality of the proposed legal solutions. The DSS will support this SRS bill, as we confirm our consistency that it is necessary to remove any obstacles that prevent Serbian citizens from choosing the president. That's what we've been talking about since 2002. The legislator must intervene when circumstances change and must allow the constitutional system to function. It is precisely the abolition of the censorship for the election of the President of the Republic that this assembly responds to these circumstances which there is no particular need to list, but are repeatedly highlighted: unsettled voter lists, a large number of forced abstinents, and so on. What I want to point out here is the fact that this bill, more specifically Article 1 of this bill, which amends Article 4. The law on the election of the President of the Republic does not solve the problem of the timing of the presidential election. It simply refers to the members of 86 and 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which leaves a legal gap precisely for this situation in which we have found ourselves. When a current presidential election is sought here, the fact is ignored that the censorship has not been lifted and that 60 days have elapsed since the failed elections in November, when we did not have the president of the assembly to call these elections. The deadline has expired, but it remains a figure of speech and can be applied by analogy to this completely new situation, which is that the new president of the Assembly will call elections within 60 days of the day of his election in the National Assembly. So the first member of this bill does not solve the problem of the timing of the election. Therefore, the DSS proposed a law amending the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which clearly defines when the presidential elections should be called. It is therefore necessary to adopt these two draft laws together. We point out that at this extraordinary session we have proposed two draft laws: so this law amending the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic and amending the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and thus the DSS launched a procedure for creating conditions for the construction of institutions in Serbia. It is regrettable that at this extraordinary session, we must begin by removing illegal decisions on the election of governors and the National Bank Council, by filling in legal gaps, by removing all obstacles to the election of the President of the Republic, by creating legal conditions for all of our citizens to participate in the electoral process and by allowing national minorities to be represented in this highest home of the Republic of Serbia. We promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia this during the campaign, that this legal and institutional chaos that we inherited from the previous irresponsible DOS government would begin to resolve. If this legal-institutional chaos is not spotlessly removed, it will not be possible to deal with accumulated economic and social problems. What is interesting after all these discussions are the views of individual political parties, which have been declared in the National Assembly as opposition, the question of these draft laws, and above all about the upcoming presidential elections. A parliamentary group noted that it was afraid of voices coming from the diaspora, ahead of certain presidential elections. Hence, and such a strong demand that these elections be immediately discussed, before the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Selection of MPs, which allows our fellow nations to take part in the electoral procedure. Is this fear of the political mood and the objective court of the diaspora on the seriousness and statehood of certain political options in Serbia? In others, who are now leaving power and who have left us this inherited chaos, the fear of the success of the presidential election is clear. That's why they're opposed to abolishing the census. They understand, if the censorship is lifted, that the presidential elections will succeed, and they do not have a winning candidate in those elections. Another defeat in the election will permanently leave them out of power. So it's best that these elections fail, that the continuity of this institutional chaos continues, that others blame themselves, that the money be spent on that people's "After the Flood". That is why the best solution is to support both the bill's proposals, both the DSS and the SRS, because only together adopted ones allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to finally choose the first host of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u468	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not have reacted to all the inaccuracies in exposing the predecessors if it hadn't been for the greatest, which is that the SRS is afraid of political will, votes or elections. You mentioned a party directly in other places, and here it's clear enough to everyone that you talked about the SRS, if I'm not mistaken, and you correct me. So, we're afraid of the voices of our people in the diaspora. We're not afraid at all, and we've said it a dozen times from this pay phone. So, not to be afraid, but we look forward to the results of the vote with impatience, but we hope that this vote will pass in a fair and correct way and that these votes will not count either Vuk Draskovic, Goran Svilanovic, or anyone else, but that political parties will have their own controllers in every polling post. If political parties have their controllers in every polling post and if you accept our amendment to have one polling place every 100 kilometers, to enable people to vote in the best possible way, to vote essentially, to make it easier for them to vote, to give their vote, support and political trust to one of the candidates for the President of the Republic or one of the political parties, if parliamentary elections are called, be assured that there will be no single polling place in the world, not one single polling place on the globe, where they will not win, and that is convincingly, the SRS. You won't find him anywhere in Africa, neither in Asia, nor in Europe, nor in North or South America. If you open somewhere, we'll beat you in Antarctica. As for that, you don't have to worry at all. No, the penguins will be for you, but they're invalid ballots, and we'll beat the invalid ballots. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Since you are talking about the permanent removal of what the predecessors have done, I agree, and dozens of times Serbian radicals have said and shown their relationship to the thief in the Serbian Parliament. But I don't think illegal behavior or direct opposition to certain acts of the Constitution and the law can be justified by someone's earlier theft. I call once again on you to consider, especially because of what happened in the previous period and because of the facts we have learned, and about the crime of this organised mob group of Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic and others, but also because of everything against the law and illegal in the operation of Radovan Jelasic and the people of G17, that it is not accepted, that we together respect the law and that we can jointly point out that their political will cannot be stronger than the legal acts that make up the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. This is more important than both you and us and any other political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u470	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Stevica Dedjanski. Since they have remained as announced speakers representatives of the SRS, I am taking the opportunity to inform them that they have 67 minutes left in total to decide how to schedule.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I first checked in and first came out for a pay phone, my name is Momir Markovic, and I'm from the SRS MP's list. On 4 February, the SRS handed the draft law amending the Serbian President's election law to the assembly services. A dozen days later, the DSS also issued a bill supplementing the Serbian president's election law. They've been told these days that they're compatible, that they don't complement each other, and I'd like to talk about it a little bit later. Both proposals bear an emergency code, so emergency procedures. Why an emergency procedure? All parliamentary groups, all relevant political parties in Serbia, said in a pre-election campaign that Serbia would receive all the institutions as soon as the elections ended, and more urgently. Both are predicting the elimination of the census. They heard on Thursday and Friday, and today, the opinion that the censorship should not be abolished and that the censorship still allows the majority and choice of the president of the Republic. I witnessed both the first and other presidential elections in 1997. In 1997, we from the SRS organised, as Serbia was one electoral unit, watchdogs of election boxes, or members of Serbian election committees, and brought them to Kosovo. Then the president of the SRS is Professor Vojislav Seselj beat Lilić to the feet, but there was no turnout of over 50%. So census prevented Serbia from getting the president back then. I would not much about the second election cycle, in which Prof. Vojislav Seselj was opposed to the candidate Milan Milutinovic, just a few words. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic mentioned the village of Prekaza, where everyone voted for Milan Milutinovic, and there the Serb leg has not set foot since the war in 1941. Since I was at the election headquarters in Prizren from the village of Zur, 6,500 votes for Milan Milutinovic arrived. Of course, in the afternoon, police arrested all members of the election board in front of the SRS and brought them to Prizren. I can tell you that only for Prizren and the villages gravitating to him by 17 members of the election boards that day were arrested and brought down from the polls. There was certainly no censorship at the time, unless these voices that the Socialists were cordially pushing into the ballot boxes were counted. You know that even then 12 MPs were arrested in the oven, but about that one. That's why we need to cancel the censorship. As for the compatibility of these two proposals, I think it was normal, that it was parliamentary, given that the first in the assembly procedure had arrived at the SRS proposal, that the DSS would try to amend and supplement this proposal, and then this dilemma between the two proposals, which are identical and not identical, would be overcome. The SRS proposal says that as soon as the law is adopted, the possibility of the elections being called into question and the president being elected within a very short period of time. The DSS proposal implies the possibility that whoever has to call the elections, so the president of the People of the Assembly, is thinking for 60 days. It was said on Friday that the elections under our proposal would not succeed. If we adopt the law today and we take down the censorship, and if tomorrow's elections are discussed, and if it's 30 to 45 days from the day of the call to the maintenance day, we'd already have a elected president in 45 days, and as long as it's been left to the president to think, the president could already have all the powers and prerogatives of authority that belongs to him under the Constitution to take over. One question here was the issue of allowing the diaspora to vote. The SRS is of course for all citizens of Serbia who have the right to vote to be able to vote. The diaspora voted well on December 28th, thanks to the fact that it was December 28th and that the New Year was coming and that, especially from this European part, they were able to come to the holidays; the SRS has just received a huge number of votes, and I think that, among other things, that is why there are so many in parliament. The SRS is for all citizens of Serbia who have the right to vote to be allowed to vote. There's only two things left to do. First, the previous government is not, and given the colour of this authority, I do not see that it will be good will for this government to do one elemental thing, to provide a unique voter list for citizens in Serbia and to provide clear, clear and accurate lists for citizens in the diaspora, for all of our citizens on temporary work in Europe, but also in America and Australia. Until we can ensure that we cannot share the diaspora in – diaspora less and diaspora more. They are all our citizens, and you must provide everyone with the opportunity to come out and vote. The issue that is also important, related to the diaspora vote, is who will guard the polling stations, who will control the elections, who will count the votes. We are not going to let Goran Svilanovic and his consulates, offices, embassies, count our votes. You must also consider that all relevant parties that have candidates, whose candidates are on the lists, must have representatives of the electoral committees located in the seats designated for the vote, whether it is a consulate, embassy, representation, etc. Without that, there is no certainty that these votes that have been given, I hope, to the Serbian radicals, but there will be some for the DSS, will probably be voiced to others, that these citizens have just voted and that these voices have arrived here. After all, you have a case that in the Republika Srpska vote abroad, so full sacks of votes come not for those candidates they probably gave there and the question is how many... Oh, yeah. Now we come to the question why 60 days. With no intention of persuading ourselves, the question arises whether then that position of Serbian President remains a coin for your inter-coalization campaign, the calculation, so – I will give the president of the Assembly, and this one will give this to you, and you will give the president of Serbia. We don't mind you making arrangements and putting one candidate on the list, but then get him ready now and go out with him right now. That you may not be preparing some laws that have to go through the procedure before the president is elected, because you are afraid that someone who is president of Serbia tomorrow, and not from your ranks, will then return the law, will invite the TV cameras of law enforcement ministers to explain to the citizens of Serbia why these laws have been passed. You know that if our candidate won the presidential election, and we hope he will, he would invite all ministers and the entire government right in front of the cameras so that the citizens of Serbia know why a certain law is returning to the re-procession and why they will vote again in the Assembly for such a law. If it weren't for thinking about a new state of emergency, what does Serbia really need to be afraid of, so you need those 60 days to think about what to do? If Serbia had a president and if the president had been from the SRS, you certainly wouldn't have passed, I'm talking about the previous government and the previous, former government, the Labour Act, where several hundred thousand people remained on the street. It would not have passed such a law on Burazer privatisation, where from underground, from a criminal mile, people bought the strongest and most profitable resources in Serbia, for two or three euros in sugar canopy, for five euros in a slaughterhouse, such as Carnex, etc. I'm sure the law would be right in front of the citizens of Serbia. It would not go past the lustration law, which has served you and will probably continue to serve, unless you adopt an SRS proposal that this law should be abolished, for the persecution of political insinuators; for, all who are present tomorrow can be former, such as the government until 2000, the former DOS government is now DOS power for this new government that forms the former, and then the possibility opens up for everyone to be removed from power then political persecution begins. Join in and run for one, but let's pass the law, open up the possibility of the President of the Republic, run for your man. We SRS hope, we're even convinced that our candidate is going to win convincingly, anyone that you can run for office. Do not allow yourself to stop the will of the citizens now, and the will of the citizens is clearly defined in the 28th election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u472	Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u473	Dear People's MPs, a replica to the presentation of a respected counterpart, Markovic, is that in one part of his text he tried to plant the DSS against the single voter list. I'll quote Article 12(3) and (4). The law on selecting MPs, which says – the electoral list is unique and permanent. So neither the DSS nor anyone else can stand up here against the single list. He already is this Law on selecting Members of the People, which we are trying to fix, and we have no amendments to these provisions. So he doesn't touch them at all. What was the problem, where I can understand Mr Markovic, an esteemed colleague, which he may not know, in 2002 we really had a great deal of trouble in RIK trying to search that and such a unique polling list with software tools, which will be able to compare the double entries or those that are not listed, or those that are not included and should not be included in the voter list and the like. In this way, the majority in RIK made it impossible for the list to be searched and functionally unique. But he is unique. It doesn't matter if it's six million people, from first to six million, or if it's a list of voters per municipality. It is important that no one prevents you from crossing these municipalities with software tools, cross the voters' names, and to check whether there are double entries, whether there are false entries, whether there are those who are not listed, etc. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u474	The word is made by MP Stevica Dedjanski, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic, who was missed by my mistake to be called at the very beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has proposed these amendments to the law because the people of Serbia, and we as a party, have suffered damage in the presidential elections, because despite Mr Tomislav Nikolic's convincing victory, Serbia has not received the president. The situation must not be allowed for Parliament Speaker, as Natasa Micic did, to trade in elections or not to call them, because she likes them, i.e. The President of the Assembly likes to remain V.D. The president of the assembly, and while he likes it, he has no choice. It's not right and it can't be that way. In order to avoid this, elections must be held within 15 days in the event of failure to dissipate automatically and that the candidate who receives most votes become Serbian president. You know, if you are interested in the well-being of Serbian citizens, as you like to talk, as we do, the Assembly will adopt our proposal to amend the law and unanimously. The main and most important thing in all this is that the proposal provides for the election of Serbia's president in the first or second round. Serbian citizens will get their president through this law, and those who do not want to do so will continue to work as before. From what interest, he'll have to explain himself. The question is, why is the law urgent? The urgency of the law, the amendment of this law, is conditioned that this year is electoral, which must be held by local and rural elections and almost certainly parliamentary elections. If there is any good will and intelligence among the ruling majority, local and rural elections will be held together with the presidential elections, because so will the people of Serbia save both the pain and the money, and you will be easier to fall at once than to think that you will recover, and then fall again in the next 20 years, what will you look like afterwards? We will agree that it is important for the people to solve the employment problem, to have bread to eat, to start the economy. If most of us agree on it, and the people have shown that they think so, that DOS's government has been destroying the institutions of the Republic of Serbia by machining, here's an opportunity to support the SRS proposal and save your cheek, who has it, and who doesn't, there's nothing we can do about it, as the people say, face like a sole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u476	The word has been given by MP Zoran Angelkovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u477	Of course, ladies and gentlemen, that Serbia needs a president and I don't think that in this room either, no one in Serbia is disputed. In addition, whether the president has a lot of jurisdiction or a little jurisdiction, they are resolved by the Constitution; the very fact that from the 83rd to 89th members of the Constitution regulates the issue of the position of the President of the Republic enough to address the need to have the President of the Republic. However, there is another question here -- why does Serbia not have the president of Serbia, why has the president of the Republic of Serbia not been elected in Serbia for two years? I think this debate may lead us to think that the Serbian citizens also feel that the law is guilty that we do not have a president. That's basically not true. It is exactly one thing, which is that this outgoing government, the current regime, is still active, for a few days, I hope, was not interested in Serbia having the president of Serbia and its actions, has done its best to make sure that we do not, we do not choose him, we do not get to that position, what the Constitution provides for Serbia to get the president of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens cannot be accused of not being interested in electing the president of the Republic of Serbia, but must be clearly said that the government has done everything by its negative campaign "for" and "against" a suitable candidate, or at all against elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, so that Serbia does not reach the president of the Republic. Of course, we today, obviously seen from the number of MPs who will vote for this law, will create conditions to safely reach the President of the Republic. But do we have a duty and do we have the right, as MPs, to find solutions that will at any cost allow us to come to something or have an obligation both as a government and as MPs to create an atmosphere that will reach the president of Serbia in a legitimate way? What do we have now? We have this: if, under the current Constitution, we are to address the issue of flag, coat of arms, anthem, 50% of citizens should come out for it, for the president of Serbia, who should respect those signs, not 50% of the citizens, according to this bill. I think he's running away from the fact that it's all been done not to get to the president of Serbia. Why didn't we get the president of Serbia on December 28th? Because the government didn't want it. Is it possible that the government did not predict that the elections for Serbia's president, the previous cycle, would not succeed, so two days before the results for Serbia's president are discussed parliamentary elections, in order to lose the function of a man or woman, more specifically, or v.d. Serbia's president, who will call in that day and the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. It was clear, in fact, that there is a dynamic to prevent Serbia from getting the president of the Republic of Serbia. Would we get the president of the Republic of Serbia on December 28th? We'd get safe. If not in the first round, we'd get safe in the second, because more than 50% of the people came out. Why didn't we get it? Because the government wasn't interested. Now because the government was not interested we are looking for a solution that will allow the Serbian president to win at any cost. I understand the party representatives and representatives of the current regime who are against these laws. They are against only to legalise what they have been working for the past two years, not to reach Serbia's president. They're not for principled reasons against. That's why I'm sorry we're like SPS against the law, so it turns out we're thinking the same thing. No, we're completely different. We'll never think the same way they do, because this is a different thing. They want to legalise their dissatisfaction and their activity for Serbia, to get the president of Serbia, and we want the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be respected. These are two completely separate things, and in this sense I think a solution should be sought in the other direction, which is that a solution is sought under the existing constitution to reach the president of Serbia, because citizens are interested in him, not because at all costs it is necessary to reach the president of Serbia. It is possible, according to the existing solution, that 5% of Serbian citizens (of course, will not be able to do so) will elect the president of the Republic of Serbia. Five, six, 20%, however, there is no even lower censorship that would allow and prevent Serbia's minimum exit from providing the Serbian president's choice. Lower censorships exist in many other referendums, e.g. when voting in Hungary for NATO entry, the lower census was 25%. Under 25%, the referendum failed, over 25% succeeded in the referendum. Or what's mentioned in Russia, it's even more restrictive there, if 50% doesn't come out in the first round, in the second round, the same candidates can't run, the other candidates have to. In that next first round, the same candidates cannot, the different candidates must. I think it's actually bad that we're adopting the francers of the law, and this whole session is about adopting parts of the law or the francles of the law, and we're not going to start by adopting a whole law -- and this next one, when it comes to electing MPs, and this one about the president of Serbia. And it's all about what we want with the Constitution of Serbia, and that's what we've been messing with here, which the previous government has been distracting us for a year, that we want a new constitution, and they've done everything we can not get to it, and now we're in a position to adopt the francles of the law. We're against the adoption of those Frenchmen. I think we need to adopt the whole thing, so we're going to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u478	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Goran Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency of the Assembly, the Honored Vice President, the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, proposed by the SRS parliamentary group, is a law that will allow Serbia to come out of the crisis of the institution of the election system of the President of the Republic. The fact is that at the moment Serbia has no elected president. There has been no elected president since December 2001, and this speaks of the unsustainable situation that has arisen primarily from the inconclusive behaviour of the Democratic Party that ruled this parliament in the past term. Namely, the Democratic Party, as the ruling party of the former assembly, represented the main generator and the inspiration of all the problems that have arisen and turned into a crisis of the system's institutions, both parliament and the institutions of the president of the Republic. Our bill stems from past experiences with the presidential elections held in Serbia. It is true that the law has been amended on two occasions, but despite these changes, there has been no solution that the law makes it impossible for the president of the Serbian Parliament to become self-sufficient, as well as the fact that he is calling the elections within 60 days. We have seen in the case of the former speaker of the assembly that the deadline can be three times, even four times 60 days, or that the president of the assembly has voluntarily decided when to call the elections. In order for this not to happen in the future, the SRS proposal prevents one such possibility. In a proposal submitted by the SRS parliamentary club, in those reasons for the adoption of the law, which is primarily based on Article 73(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that Serbia must have the President of the Republic, because it is an unsustainable condition for such a significant body to remain in the status of V.D. Therefore, this bill amends the provisions of the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, which prescribes censorship for the majority of voters who voted, i.e. excludes any possibility of the failure of the presidential elections and the endless repetition of the elections. In an explanation of the legal institute - Article 1. The bill sets out that the election is called by the President of the National Assembly, and by making the decision to call the elections the same day as the reasons set out in Articles 86 and 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, automation is introduced that nothing depends on the will of the president of the National Assembly and confirms the obligation to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the reason for passing laws by emergency procedure, it is quite clear to everyone in this assembly, to all MPs that Serbia, above all, should have a head of state and president of the Republic. In view of the above, the speaker of the assembly, it means that he should call the elections after the next day's automation from the day of entry into force of the proposed law. The SRS wants this situation to stop, if Serbia has a head of state, we do not want to think whether the president of the Assembly will abuse his function or not, we do not want to enter into that thinking at all. This assembly should restore citizens' confidence in the system's institutions and therefore there is no reason to wait for the presidential election to be called, to pass a law like this. Teached by the experience of the previous president of this parliament, whose name I do not want to mention, the SRS has offered a bill that will prevent the possibility of violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by the president of the Assembly from whatever political parties he was and that is the key to everything. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this case provides for only two conditions. First, that we have the president of Serbia and secondly, that we have a choice for the president of Serbia. The third condition doesn't exist. So, the bill that we have highlighted in this House has been proposed as a parliamentary club, and compared to the proposal that the DSS has pointed out, it cannot be compatible in any way. Our proposal is precise, without any possibility of manipulating the president of the Assembly on the one hand, and by abolishing the censorship, it is possible for Serbia to finally get the President of the Republic. Our colleagues' proposal from the DSS for this reason, it was the previous item of the agenda, and above all, it is not sincere, because in their discussion there is a fear of calling presidential elections. If you of the DSS are so sure that your candidate will win, I see no reason to avoid adopting our bill that will allow the elections to be called immediately and we will get the President of the Republic immediately. One more thing to say, what was interesting in the previous speeches of some MPs, namely from this pay phone, was that the vote for the SRS was a voice that always goes on the opposition side. Let not the DSS MPs worry about citizens who voted for the SRS. Let them worry about their votes and worry about how they will explain to Serbian citizens that in previous parliamentary elections they received 400,000 votes less than the SRS, because 1,070,000 votes and 678,000 votes, as won by the DSS, cannot count the same. So, on December 28th, the SRS won the largest number of votes since the citizens left for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and that should be clear to you. The fact that you're making some mathematics and what you're about to make a government that those who have led to this, to the crisis of the system institutions, that's your problem, but that's what the citizens of Serbia will know on the next both parliamentary and presidential, local and rural elections. You'll be punished for doing this. You have a chance to accept this bill proposed by the SRS. If you don't, you'll show that you're the same as the ones that led to the crisis of the system's institutions, first of all, I mean DS. We from the SRS are aware that our candidate for president, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, enjoys the greatest reputation among Serbian citizens, as SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj enjoys it. As far as you are concerned from the DSS, we have given you the opportunity to form a government with Serbian radicals, because Serbian citizens did not vote for a government to be joined by Nebojsa Covic, Rasim Ljajic and Boris Tadic, but rather voted for a stable SRS and DSS government. Since you have not done so, I am sure that the next SRS elections will absolutely win and win the majority in this parliament, so we will make the government ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u480	Replica, the word is Mr Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u481	Dear fellow MPs, I think it is absolutely pointless to plant DSS some fear of presidential elections. The very fact that we first intervened through the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, handed over within a period that had not existed so far, to cut off this unconstitutional situation (and the previous rule led to it and tried to maintain it) speaks sufficiently of our intention and willingness to go out to these presidential elections. After all, we have heard from this pay phone many times from distinguished colleagues, representatives of the SRS, that we will be defeated all over the world, I guess we will lose in Canada, South Africa, Harare, etc. Why should we propose amendments to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, propose a merger of records abroad, if this does not contribute to one of our future presidential candidates, is it not both of you in a pious position? We have no fear of any choice at all, nor of how voters will vote abroad, because we have not brought these proposals at all in fear, nor in courage, but with a clear idea of what this country needs and what its voters need is, and that is to make it easier for them to go to elections. And it doesn't matter who they vote for, whether it's your candidate or our candidate, for someone third, fourth or fifth. It is important to facilitate, enable citizens, our citizens to go to elections, not to have to travel 10,000 miles, but to travel 100, 200, 500 or thousands of kilometers. It's going to be a big breakthrough. Underline again, it doesn't matter who they vote for. Do not engage in strictly party interests, the interests of the state and the interests of the citizens. After all, if you have no fear of how voters will vote abroad, which we have heard here many times, then support our bill on amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs; when it comes to you, then vote nicely for it, I understand so, practically, the absence of your fear that someone will vote in Australia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u482	The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Jocic, and then the messenger of the people of Mita Abram.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u483	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the bill amending the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group by an urgent procedure, finally regulates the law in the best possible way and eliminates uncertainty among Serbian citizens and political parties whether the elections will succeed or fail. At the beginning of this call for the National Assembly to remove all unconstitutional conditions and all obstacles to the normal political life of Serbia, and one of these obstacles is the provisions of the existing Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which censusly introduces a category of successful and unsuccessful elections and effectively prevents the safe choice of the President of the Republic. The law on the election of the President of the Republic was passed for the first time in 1990 and has been amended twice, in 1992 and 2002. The elections for Serbian President were held in September and December 2002, and in November 2003, Serbia did not get a president because of such a law. The funds spent on these three electoral cycles are more than a billion dinars, and that these funds are directed at, say, other budget users such as educators, health workers, to be paid by which the late pension, to pay for a child's allowance, would be more beneficial than there was enough will from the then government, and we hope that the government will leave very quickly. We don't hope for anything much better than the new government, but what's there. What members change in this law? We have a Article 4 in the current law that says, "The election for President of the Republic is called by the President of the National Assembly." We suggest it says: "The election for President of the Republic shall be announced by the President of the National Assembly on the same day as the reasons set out in Articles 86 and 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia." Article 5z of the current law states: "For the President of the Republic, a candidate has been elected who received most of the voters who voted if at least half of the total number of voters enrolled in the voter list in the Republic of Serbia came to the polls." We suggest that the article reads: "The candidate has been elected for the President of the Republic, who received most of the votes of the voters who voted." I note that the October 2000 law states that there should be a single polling list for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, this was not respected and we had a large number of irregularities, such as, say, a person who died a few years ago exists in the voter's list, and a person who had not been given the right to vote for a full year, or those who voted in the meantime were deleted from the voter's list. This means that the government did not do well and that the competent ministry did not control the authorities responsible for carrying out the updates of these electoral lists. Serbia needs a president who, in accordance with his constitutional powers (which are listed in Articles 83 to 89). The constitution), to take care of its citizens, to ensure security, peace, to advocate Serbian national interests, the president who will enable Serbia's economic recovery, and only Tomislav Nikolic can do so. If there had been a little goodwill, if there had been a little more hearing, and if this outgoing government and the parliament of the previous call had adopted these amendments to the law, Serbia would have won the president, because in the last elections for Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic ran over DOS candidate as a shallow stream, and so will this new one that you are now promoting. I call on Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this bill and thus to get the President of the Republic of Serbia, so that we do not again come to the situation we were in 2002 and 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u484	The word of the people is the Messenger of Mit Abraham, and then the messenger of the people, Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u485	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted this proposal to amend the law to elect the president of the Republic of Serbia, not because of the Serbian Radical Party, but because of the citizens of Serbia. We need a President of the Republic of Serbia who has significant powers, especially at the moment when the Government of the Republic of Serbia is elected for days and is still uncertain, it is not known when it will be elected or whether it will be elected. The president of the Republic of Serbia has a crucial role to play, and that is why citizens need it, so we should have a president of the Republic of Serbia. We're convinced it'll be our candidate, but come out with yours, there's no problem. Whoever thinks he has a good candidate is free to go to every election. The President of the Republic of Serbia has important powers regarding the Constitution itself: he determines and elects the Constitutional Court judges; he determines the Prime Minister for the Government; he has the authority to work in this assembly; he can invite all ministers to answer for his work to the people; he can return some passed laws to the Assembly's audit to vote again on them. For all these reasons, we need the president of the Republic of Serbia. Under the draft law tabled by the Democratic Party of Serbia, if we were to say roughly four and a half months from now, we would reach the president of the Republic of Serbia, and if we were to specify that would be 135 days. How? When this law is passed, until it is published in the Official Messenger, it will take ten days to come into force. Then the President of Parliament will surely announce it on the 60th day, and that is 70 days; pre-election activities - 45 days, and that is 115 days, and then 10 days until the Republic Election Commission comes down to it, until it is declared who the president is, and another 10 days until the president takes the oath and ensus, it is 135 days. So that's how much this government that's elected will have the luft in this House to push through some more of its laws or something that they intend to pass until it's elected president who can stop just that sort of thing. It must have been our choice to choose the president of the Republic of Serbia rather than to choose the governor. We have a governor, but we don't have a President of the Republic. By the way, it is still very important that when the presidential elections are called, there will also be elections at the local and regional level. Why? Many municipalities in Serbia do not function, there has been a blockade in many municipalities because of these parliamentary elections, because many DOS parties have not received the necessary censorship, so I believe they cannot rule in these municipalities. That's how they think in DOS, and so is my municipality of Shyd, from which I come, and therefore it would be cheaper for the state and the people to be all elections on one cost. The Serbian Radical Party – Dr Vojislav Seselj has and believes he has the best candidate. It is our candidate Tomislav Nikolic who has knowledge, who has the courage and who has the strength to oppose this new government, this new democratic bloc. Be assured that it will point to all irregularities that will occur in this House and in the Government. So I want to invite everyone out with your opponents to cross swords in the upcoming presidential elections, so you will be convinced that the Serbian Radical Party is stronger at this point, that it is the strongest, that it is the best and that the people will vote for it. At this point, whoever makes a cheap state and in it a strong and stable citizen, will rule for the next hundred years, and at this point it is only capable of SRS. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u486	If I didn't know where I was, I'd think the election was scheduled. Give us a minute to stop this campaign, there'll be presidential elections, there's time, and now let's end this law that allows it. The last registered speaker is the People's MP, Paya Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we are already present who knows the day of one broad and dissuasive debate, and on the SRS' proposal to amend and supplement the Serbian President's election law. If we historically take a look back and look at how these choices have run so far, then we can clearly see three periods. We have the first period, when the people almost plebiscitely gave their support to the SPS candidate, one once a big party in which you still have a lot of patriots and congratulatory people today. I don't understand why and today -- today many are trying to satanicize that part of our population and our honourable citizens. The second period can certainly be called a period of theft. Some object and are sensitive when it is respected, and it is clear that these thefts culminated in 1997 in the presidential elections, when we know that instead of Mr Vojislav Seselj, who was legally then to be elected, was appointed as president by another man. We heard in this debate that we resented the man's legitimacy by entering the latter government. You don't have to make such an exhibition, and that's what it's used for. Serbian radicals entered such a government and did not take a mandate from a gentleman who was then president, because this gentleman did not decide anything. The man was a servant of Mr Milosevic and, on the other hand, was also a servant of the DSS. That's familiar. If there were any agreements, it is known that Slobodan Milosevic has agreed with the authoritarian system, and the reason that Serbian radicals, not only Serbian radicals, is known to have forced them into the government. We came in for patriotic reasons, because the country was facing immediate war danger, because we knew that only in this way could the earth resist the force that attacked our country. It's very clear things, and I don't think we should argue about it, as well as whether it was stealing. Books have been published here, and many have read, about election results over the past ten years, clearly speaking about it. That's what's left for history, and we don't have to go back to that. The last period in this short history of these presidential elections is the last 14 months, when we have presidential elections to decommission the institutions of our system. You see today in Serbia as if some invisible director is pulling strange strings, a hour of peace, an hour of bickering between political insolents and ideological opponents, as well as political co-workers and political associates. What's the result? The result is a generation of chaos in this country. You could ask yourself what's happening to the country of Serbia. There will be one important reason, and that reason is that a new end to the geopolitical space of the Balkans needs to be finalised. Serbia should probably be brought into one colonial position, as we have a situation in South America, so we can become one of the bananas - the Republic of Europe, not South America. Now, let's go back to this story of ours and this bill of ours. You've seen that we have two suggestions. We have a proposal from the DSS and a proposal from the SRS. What's the basic problem? Why has there been chaos in Serbia for 14 months, with the help of games over presidential elections, and the system of institutions being broken down? And, as this is well explained by my predecessors from the SRS, when you have this bipolar political body of Serbia, then it is possible that manipulations put the problem of censorship and that no choice can be made for the president. The central problem in this political situation that we have today is to give a censorship, because it's an obstacle to the election of the president. If so, then it would be logical, which the SRS proposal also wanted us to overcome, and considering that we really don't have time to establish all the institutions in our system anymore, then additional solutions, the proposal for this law made it impossible to waste too much time and allowed to establish a normal state as soon as possible, with the deadlines that we have given to be respected in calling elections for the president of Serbia. The DSS proposal, which came ten days after our proposal, is not comprehensive; ours is more complete, I won't say better, but it's more complete. Many speakers here have said that this is the lack of their law and that they think that it is necessary to abolish the censorship in the first round. We think it's quite clear, and that's what's in charge. There's been a dispute between the two sides of the law. The DS argues, allegedly, for principled reasons. Now, Mr. Democrats, Europeans, mondialists, members of the Socialist International, and you've probably entered the previous international under the influence of Mr. Ivkovic, I'm asking you -- how can you stand for what you stand for now? It's normal for me that you're trying not to change these items in the old law. It's clear to me that that's what you're supposed to do. You say for principled reasons. However, the principle you represent leads to decommissioning and chaos in institutions. That's what's wrong. You chose to tell us that in Europe, Russia, there is the same principle that censorship must be respected. Where's your Germany? Where's France? Where are your other Western European countries that you are far more prone to? It is clear that there is a system where congregations can choose, but there is also where the president is elected directly. So, in Western democracies, this principle of censorship that you stand for isn't very much represented, and your top friend, the U.S. has a completely different system, which we know is what it is. As far as the SPS is concerned, I was inclined to think, and it was once a big party, that the momentum in the big game always exists, and that it prevents them from making radical and fast moves. Perhaps the other thing is, they are unable to communicate with their President Slobodan Milosevic, and they want to consult on such an important issue, so they buy time and therefore defend something that blocks social processes and settles the political scene in Serbia. For all of this, I think it's perfectly logical that we do what the representatives and MPs of the SRS suggest, so that we don't vote for the previous law, that we vote for a law that is more comprehensive, more efficient, so if you want more radical. Surely, believe me, it's not the utilitarian reasons that lead us to advocate passing such a law at this time. We have advocated the adoption of such a glare because we want to address the political situation in the country, to establish legal institutions and to move forward with normal political and social life in this country. We believe our candidate, Mr. Nikolic, is the best candidate right now -- don't mind us. We're 100% convinced of that. Why? We're honored here that we're black. We are black for all of you who have stayed in this minority, who are in the back lines, who from the back lines of the fire and come out for a pay phone to defend your attitudes. That's right. Why are we saying that Mr. Nikolic is the best and why is the SRS the right one, which the people will support in the next election? It's because we're the reverse image of the Serbian people. The way the Serbian people are, that's us from head to toe. Therefore, I urge you once again not to vote in favour of the previous law and to adopt the SRS proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u488	Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u489	Dear fellow MPs, the efficiency of this Parliament's work is also mentioned by the fact that the proposal goes after it. If a party before the DSS proposes to abolish the census, we will not be proposing the elimination of the census, especially the G17, and the SCI, etc. It is enough that only one party proposes to abolish the census, there is no need to repeat it. For this reason, the DSS did not provide for the abolition of the census in its draft law, which would really be pointless. In this respect, the proposed laws are complemented to a certain extent. As far as the election deadline is concerned, I'll remind you, when we intervened and provided for our 60-day deadline by law, then you came up with an amendment to your law, and you scheduled an appointment immediately tomorrow. That didn't occur to you when you first proposed this bill. In that sense, they are compatible, complemented, except for that amendment of yours that doesn't go with this 60-day proposal of ours. Otherwise, with all this, there is also the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, because it is subsidically applied to the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, in almost 90% of matter. He's also compatible with these suggestions. As for calling for some analogies, the U.S. elections are indirect, they're not direct and you can't compare them. By the Constitution, we have the elections directly. They vote for the electorate, then for the president, and in Germany the president is elected, not in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u490	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u491	The parties that advocate the adoption of this bill have their own argument, which is, of course, legitimate, but it is said here that it is unclear why the SPS will vote against the removal of censorship. We understand why the SRS and the DSS will vote in favour of this bill. Because they care about being elected President of the Republic, even if it doesn't come out more than 50%. That's clear and that's legitimate. But the question must indeed be asked how it is possible for 38% of Serbian citizens to go to the presidential elections in November, and 58% in December for parliamentary elections. We may not have been able to consult Slobodan Milosevic, but we have consulted Vojislav Seselj, who left the books before he left. We already quoted what he said last time, the truth, when it came to Labus and Kostunica, who were first and second. Gentlemen, there's no problem in the law. It wasn't the law of obstacles we didn't get the president. There were two obstacles: the DOS' wish that Kostunica or anyone else at all costs would not be president of the Republic of Serbia and voters who did not realize that they should go more than 50% to such presidential elections. Not a problem with the law, the problem is voters in Serbia. Therefore, all Serbian presidents have so far been elected with a 50% censorship. Last time the law was amended and the censorship was lifted in the second round, and yet it was not enough to elect Serbia's president. The SPS is against census termination. This does not mean that other parties, who have a legitimate desire for Serbia to get the president and the president to be exactly from their party, do not have the right to propose it. But we believe it is logical and normal for the President of the Republic to be elected in elections involving more than 50% of the voters in Serbia. As for DS, she did everything unconstitutional; Natasa Micic did not call elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite of the constitution. Their commitment is contrary to the SPS's pledge. We're pushing for the elections to be held, to be scattered, but without the census being abolished. That's why we're asking you not to mix all that stuff up. Our pledge is also legitimate, because all of Serbia's presidents so far, along with all possible disputes, but it is now too late for these disputes, were elected on the basis of a 50% censorship in both the first and second rounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u492	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything that Vojislav Seselj has said is true, and everything he has said has been written on the CD and remains written in his books, and so those who persecute him in The Hague tribunal will have a big problem proving what they have falsely written in their rather foolish indictment, so that those who call on Mr Seselj should not be concerned. Mr. Seselj said that at one point, when it happened that we didn't get the President of the Republic for the first time, thanks to the fact that we didn't have a sufficient number of outers, when they stayed in the race of Mr. Labus and Mr. Kostunica. Then we had three strong political rivals: Kostunica, Labus and Seselj. We had, like, an unsolved game. All three had 25-30% of the votes. It has been shown that Serbia is divided into three parts, that by giving up one of them is unable to elect a president with a percentage of more than 50% turnout. The question is, what do we do today? Of course, apart from the legal aspect of whether it is constitutional or not, what we have proposed in this act, and we have found that it is in line with the country's highest legal act, the second question is the issue of political opportunity, the question of what we want by adopting this act. Do we want to win? Yeah, of course we want to win. It's natural and normal that we want to win. We don't want to go to the election and lose. I still don't know anyone who wants to go to the election, and the election doesn't expect a good result, but wants to lose. There's something wrong with that man or that political party. So, of course, we want to win, we want to win, that's what we're gonna do. As for the consultation with Mr. Seselj, we are disappointed and unhappy that we can't hear our president and our friend, especially because he can't even get a visit from his family, which he can't talk to his children, to talk to his grandson. He can't find out what they're doing to him or how they're preparing for some new election campaign by his party colleague. We, unlike others, have never and will never give up, will not hang up on him when he calls from The Hague. On the contrary, we will listen and respect all that Vojislav Seselj says. That's the difference between you and me. We pray to God to hear from him, and you pray to God that telephone relationships never be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u494	The word comes from MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u495	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS and its MPs will support the bill proposed by the DSS. No, we've repeated that on several occasions after this speaker, to support the SRS proposal. As a Assembly, we must take care of the responsibility we have as a collectiveity in relation to the institution of the President of the Republic, and these two draft laws are, in our opinion, in cohesion. So one bill provides for situations – what happens if the presidential elections were unsuccessful and when the elections are re-examined, and the other bill provides for the abolition of the censorship, and in that sense they are contradictory. Because if both bill proposals are passed, we will come into a situation where we have a law that provides for what if the presidential elections fail, and they cannot fail if this second bill is passed, and it seems that we will adopt both bill proposals, at least on the basis of announcements we hear from the MPs' clubs. Our point is that in a broader context, we have to look at this problem. We must also look at the problem in the context of the way we choose, but also in the manner of impeachment of the President of the Republic. It is completely illogical that the President of the Republic can be elected on the basis of 10% of voters' votes, or perhaps less, hypothetically, voters who go to the polls, and that the impeachment is one terribly rigid way that is not controversial again, but thus defined by the Constitution, that it is necessary to declare two-thirds of the MPs of the National Assembly to initiate the impeachment procedure, and that most of the voters are then called by the President of the Republic. What does that mean? It means we can choose the President of the Republic, hypothetically again, with 100 or 200 thousand votes, and it takes three and a half million voters to call it off. This issue must be set up systematically and we will therefore be abstained from this bill. We therefore believe that the Constitution needs to define differently the position of the President of the Republic, as well as the powers that the President of the Republic has. Given that this constitution has so dimensioned these powers that they are pronounced, it is necessary that if there is no censorship in the election of the President of the Republic, so if it can be elected with 100 or 200 thousand votes, it is a dominant protocol function, if we define ourselves, or if there are stronger powers, they must be compatible with both the way the elections are and with the legitimacy that the President of the Republic has. I wouldn't deal with comments that were highly party-like. This issue is of importance and exceeds intra-party or inter-party bickering. There were a lot of comments about the former president of the assembly. Without the intention of being a lawyer or representative of the former speaker of the assembly, therefore, there was no reason why the new president of the assembly would not immediately call the presidential elections if we were to observe things in such a way, so there was constitutional authority to have the elections called. It is true that there is a legal gap in this problem. It is true that this legal void needs to be filled in. We believe she can be filled in by accepting the DSS proposal. We do not think that we will find a solution, i.e. that we will have a formally round system until the end if we accept both proposals and we believe that we must all work together on a new constitution which will define both the different competences of the President of the Republic and a different way of choosing and recalling the President of the Republic. There are several ways for the President of the Republic to be elected. It can also be a choice in parliament. We have proposed this as one solution, if the President of the Republic is a dominant protocol function. It can be discussed about different ways of elections, but the way the election and the way of resolution, in a formal sense, must be compatible, so it is not logical that we can elect a president with 5% voter in the Republic of Serbia and that it takes more than 50% of voters to call him off.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u496	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS promoter, as an authorised representative, I will try to eventually debate this proposal, sublime the entire debate. It is obvious that the mood in parliament is such that the bill proposed by the SRS will pass, as is evident from the proposal for a law proposed by the DSS. I sincerely hope that we will never again be in a position to discuss amendments and additions to one of the same laws at a session of the Assembly. I also believe that we were able to bring together the debate on these two laws and on the next item of the agenda - the draft law amending the Law on the selection of MPs, as the debate on these two proposals also slowly shifted to the debate on the next item of the agenda. So, if we respect some rules – that the act that first came to the President of the Assembly is also the point of the agenda proposed for discussion, then we will not be in a position to waste valuable time here for almost a week, how long the debate takes, literally three members of the law: one member has a draft of the DSS law and two draft laws of the SRS. But it's only because we haven't learned to talk yet. If we had sat down as a political group in parliament for a round table in parliament and discussed what political reality is in Serbia, I think we would have come to the conclusion of what kind of draft law on the election of a president should be, as well as what draft law on the election of MPs should be, and we would have come to parliament with a principled story that would take several hours and we could move on to a vote. This is how we spent a lot of time, I'm not going to tell an empty story, but everyone of course stuck to his arguments. One claimed that there was compatibility between these two draft laws, the other that they were contradictory, and I, too, on behalf of the promoter, consider them contradictory. We are opposed to historical provisions such as the provision of the law proposed by the DSS, because we believe that after 14 years it is high time to agree on electoral laws and not to change electoral laws whenever Parliament's composition changes, or just before the vote is called. In Serbia today, there are five, possibly six political parties that will always be represented in parliament, sometimes more or less, to the left to the right, to the right, but that is what we need to agree once on which rules we will respect in any subsequent elections. Unfortunately, we can hear that they are saying that we will never be with the SRS, others say – we will never be with the DSS, as if someone were asking us who we're going to be with. Citizens tell us you have to do this with us; if we respect the will of the voters, there's not much to think about. That's what I'm saying because of those who claimed -- well, you confessed to the victory of Milutinovic in 1997, because you entered the government of Mirko Marjanovic, who was given the mandate by Milan Milutinovic. It's an absurd story. We entered the government because our voters wanted us to be the ruling party. We, as we are now, had 82 MPs. And now our voters want us to be the ruling political party. The fact that others do not want to be a minority partner in the government, so they ran away from such a government, seeking fewer political parties to which they will be commanded, is their problem. Let them do their job, let them respond to their voters, we told our own what we had to do with that offer right after the parliamentary elections were over. For the presidential election, as well as for everyone else, as a political party, we are always ready. We're not looking for any special conditions. We have respected the political reality. This isn't a single-party country anymore. So there is not one political party that is absolutely powerful and that elections must always succeed. There are five or six political parties. The people's sympathies are shared. We can influence that, of course, but after all these years of political pluralism there can't be much change. You saw, the SRS got the biggest sympathy in the parliamentary elections, so we stayed in the opposition. She received the most sympathy and the most votes in the presidential election, but it was insufficient to elect a president. So, a bigger offer is required and as soon as we have a boycott of some political parties, these presidential elections cannot succeed. That's what we want to overcome, we want to elect a president, we want Serbia to have this important institution. Some here sought reason to vote against this law, asked the question of the president's legitimacy which was not chosen by half the voters out of the total number of voters. They also found a reason in the fact that impeachment is needed to declare two-thirds of the MPs to initiate the procedure and to declare the majority of voters in the referendum. But please, choice and recall don't have the same weight. We can't play with the president of the state and call him off as much as we can. We need to be aware of the reason why the President of the Republic can be recalled. It's only if he broke the Constitution. Thus, it once again shows the seriousness and importance of this function. Whether or not he has violated it should be assessed by the two-thirds majority in parliament and, of course, after voters, that is, Serbian citizens. In the event of impeachment, a campaign is also being conducted and it is being explained to the citizens whether or not this happened, and political parties are participating in the campaign, but the president himself would also participate in explaining his views. We need to understand once already that the president of the state can also be from that political party that is not represented in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It only gives quality to our democracy because it is another executive function that again has the ability to control the Serbian government. Once we understand that, I think we'll all understand that finally this democracy in Serbia is over all those children's diseases and that we can talk to each other on equal foot. Some also spoke about the existence in Serbia of a single polling list. It exists in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but it doesn't exist in fact, because we have, Mr. Ristivojevic, just a collection of copies of the electoral lists and it is certainly not a unique voter's list. So, we have a messy polling list and we don't know how many voters there are. That may be one of the most important reasons. We are aware that the voter lists will not be arranged soon. You had behind you, here, three or four years to do it, you couldn't do it, you didn't have the will, you had enough desire to do it. I don't know if you'll have time to do business next. And since we don't know what the number of voters should go to the polls to get the president elected under this law, we asked that the censorship be abolished. According to us, Serbian radicals, the decision by Natasa Micic, which was declared an unconstitutional, i.e. Article 5i. Article 3 The law on the election of the President of the Republic is just as unconstitutional as this law, which, on a proposal from the DSS, was here on the agenda, except it's not called a decision, it's called the law. We should stop making historical provisions. Someone at this point is not responsible for having to discuss the election for a variety of reasons. We know them, we don't have to burden the public with that. We know each other enough, we know who's in the interest of what's in this moment, what are the calculations, blackmails, waiting for the parliament of the state community to be established, to see who's going to take the function there. The Democratic Party election assembly was waiting here, waiting for the government to form at all or not, and, of course, it takes time to call the presidential elections. We appreciate that, but it could have been without such a radical bill to be done, by some political agreement. We were just looking for the respect of the Constitution at this point, as it is, as long as it doesn't change, and of course the amendments to the law, so that we will soon overcome this situation for Serbia to be a state that doesn't have such an important institution. If you want to be honest with yourself, you will agree to this bill. You will realize that he was not proposed according to the SRS and that, possibly, an SRS candidate in some of the elections that are scheduled to take place in May, June, would be the president of the state. We, as always, will respect the will of the voters. The one they choose will be considered the president of the state, of course, provided everything is legal, that the electoral procedure is as the law provides, that there are no thefts or any votes in the sacks that would come from the side. That is why we warn you in advance – the first next elections will be elections that will show how much you respect the will of the voters and how much you care for all the chosen authorities to be chosen by the will of the majority. Some also thought it was V.D. The President of the State, or the President of the Assembly, who has the full legitimacy to perform that function until the President of the State is elected. I don't know, really, what drove you to think like that, given that we currently have a president of the Parliament who has a fifth of the MPs in this House. We will have, if the agreement of the newly created coalition is respected, the president of the assembly that will have a quarter or a sixth, a sixth of the MPs behind it. If they have legitimacy, and Mr. Martian himself answered the word and said he felt the opposite, that 14 months perform that function, given all those responsibilities of the President of the Republic, then you're right. But I think that your starting base was completely wrong and that we need to finish this debate and debate on the election of MPs as soon as possible, and that in the future you really respond to the SRS call when it calls you to any kind of deal, to spare the citizens of Serbia from hearing about something that they are least interested in. They want elections, they want to have power on their own. Unfortunately, many times so far, their wish has been played out, but they know very well in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u498	Replica, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u499	Dear colleagues and colleagues, to replicate. Dear colleague Pop-Lazic, what you're saying is I've already said. I quoted the law and I showed nicely that in this country there is at least a single electoral list in principle, and that it is not unique because of the fact that in the Republic Election Commission, there has been an understatement of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The majority claimed that no insight should be made into that list, intervention should not be carried out, no proposing representatives may intervene to delete the double enlisted, those not required to be on the list, etc. We've managed to make that voter list, whatever it is, unique, unequal. After the election, we even did the job ourselves, the DSS, and that's what the state had to do, we listed double-listed, and we even handed it over to the state authorities just to implement, so the Ministry of State Administration, and later the Justice Department didn't do anything and didn't do anything about it. Now we're going to do it nicely when we're forming a new government, I'm just asking you not to take my words and attribute it to yourself. I said here, for this speaker, the list is unique in principle, and it's not in fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u500	Is there anyone else who's entitled to Article 89? Is the Rules of Procedure reporting for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5 be added after article 4. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like the representative of the motionary, MP Gordan Pop-Lazic, to make a statement on this amendment. The amendment accepted. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the bill tabled by the SRS is precisely in this amendment, which I have submitted before the MP's group and which I ask to add a new Article 5 after Article 4, which reads: "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to call elections for the President of the Republic the next day from the date of entry into force of this law." In the transitional and final provisions, we ask that such a strict binding provision be introduced. We have heard in recent days on several occasions from representatives of the ruling group or those who think it will be, but I believe for a short time, that it was unnecessary or that they were being explored why an amendment was submitted by the SRS MPs on the draft law proposed by the SRS. Again, we must return to the chronology of events and the fact that the SRS as a responsible political party, which is important for us to have a stable society, that we have all the institutions of the system, on 4 February right after the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted a set of draft laws, including this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Meanwhile, since Dragan Marscanin of the DSS was elected president of the National Assembly, the DSS, or Dejan Mihajlov as its proposing, has passed a law amending the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. We also heard from Mrs. Pop-Lazic and some of the participants in the debate that we will have a situation where both laws are passed. However, the DSS representatives have not said one word, saying they would accept the amendment of the law, and it was proposed by the SRS, to abolish the censorship, which we still advocated in 2002, I will remind you, between the two elections of the president, between the two election cycles of our party's president then said that we are ready to discuss the reduction, i.e. the abolition of the electoral censorship. The conditions have been met and we have proposed this law, because it is important for us to have a president, given that all the deadlines prescribed by the Constitution have already expired in order for the president to be elected. But in no word did they want to say that this amendment is an integral part (or so should be) of the law proposed by the SRS. Because it is impossible, you didn't think that I would stand before the SRS parliamentary group this amendment, and that Mrs Pop-Lazic would say, "No, she won't accept it." You have heard that it is accepted and would have to be accepted, because it is the only amendment that allows us to really have as soon as possible, i.e. on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger", the election called by Dragan Marsicanin. We don't trust you to do this, or we already see by your bill that you're going for a prolonging, because your law is talking about it, and that's why we're going to vote against it. We actually want to respect what we have promised our voters and to allow Serbia to elect a president, clearly expressed by its people's will, and this way we have no guarantee that this will happen immediately, unless this amendment of the SRS is adopted. The day before yesterday, after receiving a mandate to form a new government, the recycled DOS, Vojislav Kostunica, told reporters and the entire Serbian public clearly that we would have the president of the Republic in a few months. We're going back to that again - we have to have the President of the Republic. Milan Milutinovic has not officially done so since 16 January 2003, and he has not since 4 April 2001, when he resigned from the SPS membership as vice-president and member of the General Committee, allegedly, because he was then pressured to absorb Slobodan Milosevic. Therefore, if you want and if you are in favour of a stable society and of institution building, do not calculate with the choice or non-election of your non-principled government, which will not bring better tomorrow to the citizens of Serbia. We're not malignancies, but we know it from personal experience, knowing you, your future coalition partners, what you're all capable of showing, what kind of people you're going to put on the head of a resistor, and we're going to talk about it in three days. Then be truly respectful of the Constitution, under which all deadlines for the election of the president have long been broken, and accept the amendment of the SRS. None of the citizens of Serbia, believe me, would have anything to do with it, but would like to make it clear to the people's will and that Serbia has the right to choose the president immediately, and you will what you will and how many months with your government about it afterwards, but the president of Serbia needs to and must accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u502	Replica, Dejan Mihajlov, then replica, Dragan Marsicani.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u503	The honourable MPs, first of all, Mrs Jovanovic, with this amendment you have admitted that the Constitution has a legal void, and that is what our bill refers to, and you have admitted that from the Constitution, as you interpreted it, it does not result in elections being called immediately the next day. You've admitted it with this amendment, and that's a fact. If your law had been complete, you would not have submitted the amendment alone to your proposal and that is a fundamental matter, a notor fact, because why would you have submitted an amendment to your bill? Because he's not good, and you're proposing you want to fix your bill. It says that you saw after the debate we had here that your bill was incomplete and then you were faster and better, to complete it, to submit the amendment. It's a fact, and that's how it's supposed to be watched and presented. If the applicant submits an amendment to his proposal, it means that before or whilst some kind of public debate was being held outside this room he accepted the objections, others made those remarks, found that there was a legal gap in the Constitution and that his proposal was not complete and that the proposal should be completed. That's right and there's no dispute. Another thing, you say, we put our bill before yours. That's right. We have gathered 84 signatures to schedule an extraordinary session of the Assembly, as much as necessary and to discuss certain points of the agenda. Ours is, even, good will that we put your bill on the agenda, even though you didn't have enough signatures to schedule an extraordinary session on your own. We are putting the opposition's proposal on the agenda of the assembly, and that is our goodwill and our respect for your proposals, respecting the opposition in this parliament, that the proposed laws that the opposition has come to an extraordinary session and that is the whole truth. You couldn't put up that bill and we respected you and you should respect it when the position respects the opposition. It is a fundamental right and an elemental relationship that must be nurtured in this House. Third thing, wait at least 100 days, if not more, to see if the future government will do anything. You've had opportunities for years, like others, I think 100 days is a minimum period to see if the government will do anything. After that, you fire all weapons at that government and that's your right, the most legitimate right of opposition, but give at least 100 days to see if we can do anything. I think this government will give very high results in the short term that will be seen and you will be disarmed in the first 50 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u504	It is certainly not usual for the speaker of the assembly to appear after the replica this many times, but it is not common for the same things to be said so often about the intentions of the president of the assembly. So that's all I'm answering for. I think it's completely inappropriate, unnecessary and incorrect to interpret someone's intentions. I think I've already talked about the intention and the firm determination not to violate the Constitution and the laws as President of the Assembly. That's quite clear. So any attempt to suggest my willingness to break the Constitution and the laws is simply more than an incorrect behaviour of the MP, any one, after this speaker. When that interpretation is highlighted, that predicting someone's intentions, two things stand out. So the president of the assembly, a representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia, is elected in this assembly with the intention of interpreting psychics, not to call elections and violate the Constitution and laws. Why? The second part of the forecast – because the Democratic Party of Serbia fears the presidential elections. As incorrect as this claim is, but also ridiculous, I'm going to prove to you very briefly by one fact. If it were as you say, the president of this assembly would have already called the election under the existing law and thus would have put away the fear that you see from the Democratic Party of Serbia, because it would have held the censorship, there would be no elected president, and then, Serbian citizens, after continuing the will of the DOS president of the Assembly, would have continued forever. Therefore, if there was a fear of calling the elections, they would have already been called, because then the president would not have been elected. Since it's not done, it disproves every one of yours, really completely inappropriate and sometimes funny claims that something like that is trying to do at all. So, as speaker of the assembly, I will wait for the laws to regulate the area relating to holding the presidential elections, and then, if it is me, and if it is someone after me, then the one after me will call the presidential elections, and who will get the elections decided by the citizens of Serbia and do not give the forecasts there. If your forecasts were correct, then they would have already been realized in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u505	The word has Tomislav Nikolic as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard here an expected simple reasoning about the purpose of this amendment, which the Proposer has submitted to his bill. He says you found that it was not a good bill for you, so you fixed it with an amendment. It is not true, but we have seen your intentions through the bill that arrived ten days after our proposal. I can't assume that there's a right to a replica here because someone interpreted your intentions, so all the assembly work comes down to interpreting someone's intentions or intentions of the legislator, the amendment's intention, the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why have we submitted this amendment? Because after your quick draft of the law, it became clear to us that it was not your priority to call presidential elections and that you were giving up the policy that you led almost last year to its end, and it was based on your statements that Serbia must always have either the president or the election for the President of the Republic. You now justify the President of the Assembly for a few days when he is in violation of the Constitution by not questioning the presidential elections and saying he is awaiting a legal solution that will convince him that the elections for the President of the Republic will succeed. Who is this president of the assembly that he needs to be convinced of something? Is that the right thing to give him the Constitution? Does the Constitution say that the president of the National Assembly is calling elections for the President of the Republic when he is convinced that the elections will succeed? It doesn't say. He can't interpret the will of the citizens. The elections were successful when democratically taken, when we count the votes in the evening, when all our board members sign the minutes and we get their results. It's a democratically successful election. It's a censorship whether someone will be named president after winning the election or not, but neither can you challenge his victory, nor can you say the election was a failure. Why the amendment? Because it is clear that you will not call the election for the President of the Republic. Mr. Martian says he had a good intention when he broke the constitution and did not call the election for the President of the Republic. What do you need 60 days later, that he's thinking about when he's going to call the election for the President of the Republic? What do we need it for? What is it for the citizens of Serbia? On the one hand, it's a shame we haven't had a President of the Republic in two years, and on the other hand, we're delaying elections for reasons we won't admit here. Why are you delaying the election for the President of the Republic? You have a good candidate, it's just a question of whether he will beat Boris Tadic. Why are you delaying the election for the President of the Republic? If Vojislav Kostunica is to serve as prime minister for the cabinet, he can run in the presidential elections. The constitution doesn't stop him from running. The constitution does not prevent him from the night the election results are announced, if he wins, says - I am resigning as MP, I am no longer Prime Minister, I want to be President of the Republic. Nothing changes. Or he says -- I don't want to be president of the Republic, I wanted to prove to you that I'm the strongest, I want to be Prime Minister, and we're going to new elections. This amendment should not be attacked. This is a historical provision. One day it will apply and disappear from the law. He only applies to the present situation. Immediately after the entry into force of this law, the president of the Assembly is given the imperative to call the elections because it is visible that he will not. You say here – we are merciful, we sometimes give you a bill to enter into the agenda. That's what you inherited from DOS. Mercy is not necessary here. Here, just obey the laws, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I have no excuse for not calling the election for the President of the Republic as soon as he's elected president of the National Assembly. He has no excuse before Serbia's Constitutional Court. His behavior is unconstitutional. Natasa Micic had unconstitutional behaviour, but she acted according to the law, formally, had a legal basis. She could have said, as she said - I don't know whether it's by the Constitution or not, we'll wait for the Constitutional Court's decision, but you don't have a foothold in any law. It doesn't say anywhere that Dragan the Martian can think about when he'll call the presidential election. That is why I invite you to accept this amendment. This amendment regulates only this situation and only with this amendment becomes compatible. Only with this amendment, with the entry of these two laws into legal traffic, have we regulated any situation until the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why this is a good amendment. That's why he needs to be accepted. So I expect that after the day of the vote, the next day, you may be ashamed to accept the amendment, but the next day, Dragan Marsicanin is calling elections for the President of the Republic, because I cannot believe that someone who represents himself here as a position, as a strength, as a winner, is running from the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u507	Mr. Ristivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u508	Dear fellow Members of the People, we've heard a few things here that I can't really react to without reacting to. I'll try to quote Mr. Nikolic, an MP who spoke earlier. He says, when our board members sign the records, send them to headquarters and go home, then the elections are democratically successful. I hope you don't dispute that the elections were democratically successful when the other board members signed the minutes and left, but you said "ours". So maybe your "ours" is being swept away, and I wrote well as soon as you responded. Maybe it's your lapus, take it, okay, no problem. As for the fact that this is a matter of historical provision and that it is to be voted upon, just before you were respected colleague Mrs. Pop-Lazic said that we should stop with these historical provisions. So I can't understand this difference in the level of two distinguished colleagues of the SRS. The third thing, if Mr. Martian had been on the first day after he entered office to call the election, you would have won the censorship election, because then the census was not lifted and the election would have failed. That's why we need to end the censorship first, to get the election to work, and then we need to call the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u509	Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u510	Dear colleague, there is no difference between Mr Nikolic's degree and my argument against the DSS bill, because we stand at the view that you could only go with the amendment to the SRS bill. You had no right to propose one law after we proposed the same law. Absolutely, be careful, it is inappropriate for parliamentary work, if you want us to be rational and functional. Our historical provision was necessary because of the quasi-declaration you suggested. Just for this situation, you're proposing a failed election. The constitution does not know the failed choices. The very proposal of your law could, as could this previous one, in that provision be the subject of the Constitutional Court's decision. Can the law ever predict a failed election or not? As you predicted, and how you would later allow this unconstitutional state where we are now, in which we do not have an election, to survive, you suggest these quasi-declarations of a bill. In order to prevent that, we, with the proposal of our law, when we saw yours, submitted the amendment, to force you to make elections be called immediately. So, don't be sure, if the Constitutional Court does its job, if someone wants to deal with it, that this provision of the law that you allow the President of the Assembly to decide in the next 60 days when he will call the elections (because he can do so after five days of the entry into force of this law and the last one, on that 60th day) will be in accordance with the Constitution. We consider it unconstitutional, and let the Constitutional Court speak. So in order to avoid such a situation, we asked that the Constitution be respected and the elections be called immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u511	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of People's MEPs At the beginning, just to read to you the notice that the president of the DSS Parliamentary Group, Dejan Mihajlov, sent to the President of the Assembly: "We inform you that Branislav Ristivojevic will be the representative of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which has been tabled by a group of MPs, which will be discussed on the 6th point of the agenda. "You have received a bill submitted by 53 MPs to the DSS parliamentary group. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Ivica Dačić, Milorad Mirčić, Branislav Blažić, Aleksandar Vukic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Vjerica Radeta, Goran Cvetanović, Zoran Krasic, Meho Omerović, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milos Aligurdić and Bajram Omeragic. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted until the opening of the search... There are no more new ones. It's over. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the bill. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the opinion was singled out by MP Milovanovic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I remind you, SRS - one hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS - one hour 03 minutes 36 seconds, DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPO - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs per five minutes, based on Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the National MP Dejan Michael's representative want a word? Mr. Michael is not here. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Branislav Ristivojevic and the Legislative Committee, MP Milos Aligrudic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u512	The Legislative Committee has adopted this proposal on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs by majority vote; because the decision was not unanimous, as president of the Legislative Committee, I would like to say a few words on the constitutional basis of this proposal. Therefore, other than the principle of appeal to the constitutional basis referred to in Article 74(3), The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the election matter of this type being regulated by law, I would like to draw attention to a few more things. When the Legislative Committee accepted by majority that this bill is in accordance with the Constitution, we must bear in mind that it has accepted not only that it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but that it is in line with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as so-called "the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia". A small charter that is an integral part of the constitutional package of the federal state. I'll remind you of one more thing. You have before you a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People and see what its provisions are. It moves into two planes, at least, in two levels. The first is the introduction of opportunities for certain categories of voters who have so far been unable to exercise their right to vote, so that they can do so through this bill. On the other hand, it was introduced so-called. A positive discrimination against members of national minorities, whose political parties can participate in these elections with electoral lists, without the need to achieve a 5% censorship in order to put their votes to the final vote on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is a third level, concerning a very important constitutional right, which is the right to appeal, which has been partially denied by the current draft law, and this time has finally been established as a full right that protects the legal interests of all participants in the process, i.e. all applicants of the electoral lists. Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks of a citizen who has turned 18 has the right to choose and be elected to the National Assembly and other bodies and electoral bodies. This establishes a direct general and equal voting law. Directly general and equal voting rights in Serbia's territory, unfortunately, in the so far-time solutions envisioned by the Law on the Selection of MPs was not fully represented. There are categories of persons in the country, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose constitutional right was denied. These are: prisoners, persons serving prison sentences; persons in detention facilities; these are, unfortunately, powerless, immobilised and disabled persons, who are unable to reach the polling station and who, in any other way, are physically prevented from taking the vote. As far as persons abroad are concerned, it is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who cannot exercise this right abroad that the Constitution guarantees to them by Article 42. Therefore, the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of MPs are not only in accordance with the Constitution, but in this part of the provisions that are trying to bring the solutions which have not been in line with the Constitution to an end, the solution given in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, as regards the positive discrimination of members of the national minorities, this is about one basis which is achieved by the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. Its Article 8, which indicates that the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties is an integral part of the Constitutional Charter. In Article 49(3) of this so-called A small charter is established, it's so often called, so-called. A positive discrimination against the rights of national minorities, and Article 52 point 9 of Article 52, correctly states exactly what this positive discrimination can consist of, if it is referred to representatives of national minorities in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or in the Assembly of the Member States, since this Charter applies both to the member of Serbia and to Montenegro. Thus, in this sense, the proposed solution is not only in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, but establishes one right that has so far not been known in the electoral legislation of the Republic of Serbia. These were the reasons why the Legislative Committee decided most of the votes it had made and therefore considered this solution acceptable, that it is legally possible and that the National Assembly could vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u513	Does MP Milovan Radovanovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, where there are two groups of issues that are regulated or, as you stated in the explanation of the Bill's proposal, two large continents. Those who were not allowed or those who could not vote under the applicable law are powerless persons, detainees and persons who support government sanctions and our voters abroad, as we like to call them - diaspora, will now, with this bill, be able to exercise their electoral right. But what is missing from this bill is the basic principle that makes democracy the way it should be, which is a multi-party control in this group of issues, which, in fact, represents the basic principle of multilateral democracy, without which there is no democracy. This multi-party control allows the democratic principle to be seen in the exercise of voters' rights and how voters voted in a particular polling post. It is with this group of voters: powerless persons, detainees and those on government sanctions, as well as our voters abroad, or diaspora. All we can think of is multiparty control in the first parliamentary elections after the religious and civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when so-called. The international community brought in sacks of planes, of course, counterfeited, ballots in favour of some others' ballots, which did not represent the Serb people's electoral lists. We in the SRS have no objection that our citizens abroad (diaspor) vote towards their political definition, especially since they, we assume and are firmly confident in the SRS, vote for us, for the SRS, should only provide multilateral control. The proposer's intention to allow the diaspora to exercise electoral rights, but without multilateral control, will cause major problems in organising and legislating elections. It will cause many problems not only for those who organise elections, which are always parties in power, but will cause problems regarding the legitimacy of the elections, which will always be a reason to dispute certain election results at any polling post in the world. Those without multi-party control simply won't be democratic. The specific issue in this bill is the participation of national minorities, in terms of abolishing the censorship for the electoral lists which, under the bill, represent and represent certain electoral lists of national minorities, contrary to the provisions of Articles 3, as well as the provisions of Articles 11 to 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. Of course, that is the basic reason why I, as a member of the Legislative Committee, took an opinion at the Committee session. The solution offered by this bill simply does not have a constitutional basis and is contrary to these legal acts. According to international standards, national minorities, in terms of the existence of collective rights, exercise those rights when it comes to culture, tradition, customs, language, letter, information, religious freedom. There's nothing to argue about. Not only should they be allowed to exercise these collective rights, but the state on its part should also help develop all these collective rights of national minorities. Individual rights and freedoms are equal for all citizens of Serbia, regardless of any differences. That is what the provisions of the Serbian Constitution, which I have cited, guaranteeing freedom and the rights of man and citizen. In parallel, as you have proposed by the bill, this issue of national minorities' participation in the electoral process with the decoupling of censors has not been resolved, and others do not want it to be applied. Serbia's constitution, after all, does not know the division of political parties to those representing and representing national minorities and other political parties of the majority people or any other. In your proposal, the constitutional principle of equality is not represented. He was, in fact, violated. There is no need to divide citizens on a political basis in any case. This bill is not about the existence of positive discrimination, because it is something special and is at all a question of whether it exists. We don't think it exists. Giving someone more than they belong to can be called positive discrimination, but that's not the case here. Here national minorities are not really allowed to participate in Serbia's political life. You hereby force national minority voters to vote for the elite of alleged representatives of their interest in the election. In this will be the possibility of forcing members of national minorities, let's say, to vote for the elite led by Jozef Kasa, Pal Shandor, Agoston etc. That's one possibility. And another option is, given that we have a large number of national minorities in Serbia, 38, in Vojvodina 26, that every national minority points out the electoral list and asks RIK that it is they who represent and represent the interests of national minorities. So, what? We now have 38 electoral lists, at least 38 electoral lists of national minorities for whom RIK needs to consider whether they are the ones representing and representing the interests of national minorities. So, can RIK do that? Believe me, in the next election, if there's a solution like this left, there'll be big problems. After all, who's going to challenge some citizen who has the right to vote, that he can be represented as a Serb, An Ancient, and he wants to point out... (President: Mr. Radovanovic, please... Here's a few more sentences. Who will challenge the right to represent a group of people in the elections? Members of the Islamic religion pleaded as Bosniaks, Muslims, Bosniaks, Bosniaks, Bosniaks. Who's gonna decide that? RIK certainly won't. The Vlach issue in Serbia is a special issue. There are Vlachs who declare themselves to be Romanian, Italian, Serbian-original, Vlassa of unknown origin. How will RIK decide or anyone in Serbia? It's impossible. Next, we in the SRS have in the state... (President: Mr. Radovanovic, for God's sake, it's eight minutes. I'm done. We in the SRS do not want the electoral lists and national minorities to be a political decor in Serbia's political life. We want national minorities to really participate with their participation and their presence in significant political parties in the right sense and in the right meaning and words in creating many political decisions that are important for Serbia and all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u515	Thank you for your comprehensive notice. Please, since it is now the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups who are entitled to at least 10 minutes, I think it is correct to give a break by 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the debate on the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Before we continue to work, please determine if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, Mr. Ristivojevic, the promoter, then Mr. Paunović, then Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u517	Dear fellow MPs, the DSS has proposed a law on amendments and additions to the Law on selecting MPs for several reasons. We have noticed in several recent rounds of the 2002 and 2003 presidential elections, as well as in previous parliamentary elections, certain problems and shortcomings that have been led to an existing legislative solution. Much has been said in the discussions on the previous two points because the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on the Selection of Presidents is connected. The Law on the Selection of MPs is subsidizedly applied to the Law on the Election of Presidents, and therefore there have been a lot of words in previous discussions. However, something must be said in principle and in general about these amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. We propose them by emergency procedure because we have established, that is, most of you could also see that some of the shortcomings in existing laws, some of the failures that occurred since he was proposed, and thanks to some failures in its implementation, and even the malignancies in its implementation, have pointed to some gaps that require urgent and priority changes. It is not disputed that the law itself is extremely weak. It was at the moment it was brought in that it contained several co-radiator solutions, contained several legal gaps, some situations were not solved or remained open, and had to be solved. RIK has not implemented certain things in the right way or has not implemented them at all. Because of all this, we are for those shortcomings in the procedure and the laws that we have found most urgent they have proposed a solution here. We could put them in two groups. In one group, it would be a fact that the parties of the national minorities remained completely unrepresented in the current National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's meeting. It doesn't matter now for what reason. The second is the fact that there is an extremely large category of so-called. active abstinents. We have therefore proposed solutions that should be urgently and urgently to address these problems, and later we would invite representatives of all parliamentary parties to develop a comprehensive and comprehensive new electoral law. So far, we're proposing changes and interventions only on these matters. We've established three categories of active abstinences. The first would be – our fellow citizens who are incompetent, physically, to go to polling stations, so our fellow citizens who are disabled and so on. For them, we propose amendments to this law which would provide that one part of the electoral committee can go to such a voter, which is located in a particular constituency, to be submitted to him by the ballot, that the voter voter vote and that this section of the board is sealed back to the board. The second category of these active abstinents are our fellow citizens who are on the basis of penalties in criminal and correctional institutions. They're also a category of active abstinents. We have foreseen, or we propose this law to be educated in criminal and correctional institutions by election committees, to create special lists of voters located in these institutions and to hold elections in these places as well. The largest category of active abstinents, which in mass, practically comes most significant, are our fellow citizens who are on temporary stay abroad. They are disabled, in fact, thanks to the fact that they are all over the world and that they have an extremely big problem with the elections in the Republic of Serbia and voting in polling stations, but according to where they are listed in the voter's list. That is why, as one of the biggest changes, we have proposed to create the first special records of these voters abroad, and we have foreseen the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry that will be responsible for keeping lists, the Ministry of Justice, meaning, mutual communication in the creation of these special electoral lists. We also envisioned the opening of polling stations abroad, primarily in diplomatic and consular representations, and then in some other places, if possible, elections would be open. Of course, these are the things that are open in practice and the process of implementing this law will depend on the host countries to a good degree, whether or not we can agree with them to open up some more polling stations except in diplomatic and consular representations. For these three categories of active abstinences, there is a possibility that in this way as we have proposed, these problems are solved, that we can create an opportunity for our citizens to vote and thus make this a common electoral right even more equal and more common and more receptive to everyone. Another major problem we have seen is that in the past parliamentary elections, practically the parties of national minorities failed to enter parliament. There are more ways to solve this problem. We've suggested one that we think is the most painless, the easiest and the fastest and can be implemented urgently. It's very simple and simple, to simply eliminate the 5% electoral censorship for national minority parties. This thing isn't even a matter of mathematical implementation. It's very simple to do. The only changes that would follow this proposed option for national minority parties, that is to introduce a category of national minority parties. RIK could, as we predicted, carry out a particular selection in its work. This right would only be given to those parties who, first and foremost in their programmes, advocate the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities. I repeat, since a lot of these discussions mentioned this law, this is no obligation for parties of national minorities. This is just the right they can use. So, we foresee the right and leave the possibility for minority parties to go according to the regular system or to use, possibly, the right to apply to elections as parties of national minorities, not to be subject to censorship and to try in this way to enter parliament. I repeat, this is not the only option to solve this problem, but now, urgently, in a shorter period where we have to intervene on certain problems in this law, we think this is the best solution that can be achieved in a short time. There were words about it, and I listened from representatives of other political parties that it was some ghettoization of minorities, that we were forcing someone with this proposal to take advantage of this possibility. That's not true. This is a right, this right does not have to be used by one who does not want to use it, who estimates that in a coalition with another party that is not a party of national minorities will achieve a better election result or who even estimates that it will achieve a better election result without using this right. In addition to these two main problems that we have solved, that is to say, we are trying to address this law on amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliaments, there are even a few minor interventions about the particular problems we have seen, which are more legal gaps. That's what we'll come up with when we deal with this bill in particular. In the end, apart from asking you to vote in favour of this amendment and supplement law, I would also ask you - if any of the MPs have any misunderstanding about this proposal, or if I accidentally didn't explain something better or if someone didn't understand, feel free to ask. I will use my right as a proposing representative to come out and respond and to clarify this bill on amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u518	Mr. Paunović, then Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think all known shortcomings in the existing Law on the Selection of People's MPs and I think it is good to intervene, not only in the way the DSS has proposed, but it is certainly necessary to do so in this first step until the adoption of a new constitution. After that, it would be necessary to pass a set of electoral laws that would be suitable for European standards. For G17 plus, it was not necessary to pass the law in order to respect some basic civilization standards. As you can see, there is 30 per cent of the ladies among G17 Plus MPs and at the post of G17 Plus there are 15 per cent of representatives of minority communities. We will certainly, regardless of future legal solutions, and we will certainly make sure that legal solutions are suited to European standards, continue to work in that direction. What we consider important in the proposal for amendments proposed by the DSS is, above all, the abolition of censorship for minority communities. I think it is necessary to do this preventively, I do not expect this law to be applied in practice, but we will probably have the opportunity to change it very quickly after the constitution. It remains to repeat once again that G17 plus supports the amendment of this law and I think it is good that all MPs in this assembly do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u520	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the session is ongoing and that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are applicable, I would like to inform you, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, before the session of the Committee (but still, we will have a session tomorrow morning), that certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which have been challenged by the SRS, have been declared incompatible with the Constitution before the Constitutional Court of Serbia and that the decision has entered into force, so I would therefore ask Mr President of the Assembly to lead the session from now on in accordance with the position of the Constitutional Court. And if it is necessary for the MPs, we have prepared, in a hurry, if you have the Rules of Procedure, we can only tell you which provisions are deleted. In short, from now on, the violation of the Rules of Procedure can be reported by any MP; an amendment to the bill can be submitted by any MP and any MP can discuss the amendment. I didn't want to point the debate in the wrong direction, but the session is still running, and somebody's gonna think the Rules of Procedure is hurt. From now on, practically since we received the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", this may have been said by the secretary at the beginning of the session, any MP may object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not through the president or representative of the parliamentary group, and amendments may defend or attack all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u522	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The sitting shall be conducted in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. A session of the Administrative Committee was scheduled to take place at the break, which is in accordance with Article 69. The Rules of Procedure, which is responsible for considering the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, should have prepared this information that you ordinarily gave to the MPs; I led the session in accordance with the decision I was familiar with. Thank you, anyway. The session will be scheduled for tomorrow morning, so now it's Mr. Dacic's turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u523	Ladies and gentlemen, when considering other proposed amendments and additions to the law, the SPS stressed that it advocates a comprehensive resolution of all these issues in the context of resolving the overall electoral legislation. Of course, the question was also raised at the beginning of this session whether it makes sense to discuss amendments and additions to the Law on the Election of Presidents or the Law on the Selection of MPs, if it seems to me that there is a defined desire of many MPs to try to reach optimal electoral laws and if it can be assumed that in the coming period there will be an agreement on how to elect MPs. In that sense, we consider it a great drawback to what is currently happening, which is that the electoral law is being changed on the basis of certain provisions of the electoral law. Serbia deserves to get a new electoral law, or should get one. In that sense, we are put before a dilemma today. This is about several points that are acceptable to most political parties and parliamentary clubs, which is the need for our people living abroad, so-called. The diaspora gets the right to vote. It could not even be said in full terms that it is a diaspora, but that people who are our citizens, citizens who live abroad, because diaspora sometimes includes those who do not have our citizenship, do not have the right to vote here. It's a legitimate condition. I think all the political parties in the pre-election campaign have advocated that our citizens who live and work abroad, which means they have a stay abroad, and here they have citizenship, have the right to vote. A big question arises whether it is possible and within what time frame, without resolving the entire electoral law, to achieve the right and optimal exercise of that right. The second question is what was the lack of an existing electoral law, which is the right for citizens to vote outside the polling post. It is about certain categories that have lost their right to vote in the past election law: sick, immobilised, or those who are in prison or are in custody. And that's justified for most political parties and MP clubs. The third question is national minorities. If we go to the fact that national minorities can have certain more favourable conditions than other citizens of Serbia, it can be positive to meet these proposals to abolish the 5% price for national minority parties and that all national minorities or coalitions of national minorities enter the mandate, although they have not crossed the 5 per cent threshold or censorship of the total number of those who voted in the parliamentary elections. Of course, the issue of arbitration is raised, which are parties that can represent themselves to the parties of national minorities. You know that there may be great abuses, you know that some politicians will be declared, as well as some parties, as representatives of national minorities, because more chances have to gain amongst members of national minorities than among members of their own people. You're throwing yourself who'd be around it, but it's really left to be decided by RIK. So we think it's bad that these three things are being solved in a partial way, and all without a whole election legislation problem. Of course, it is difficult for a political party to plead against these things, given that it can then be interpreted as being against the right of citizens living abroad to vote. Also, it can be interpreted that you do not give the right to vote outside the polls for those who cannot stand the chance that day, and they were entitled to vote throughout the past ten-year period. And as far as national minorities are concerned, it would immediately be misused if political parties had something against the rights of national minorities. Speaking of which, according to existing electoral laws, not only this, but also the previous ones (even after the 1990 majority elections, and after that they were proportionate elections with several electoral units), members of the national minorities always had representatives in this parliament. Those who have long been present in Serbia's parliament must remember that the current president of Presevo Municipality Riza Halimi, if I hadn't mixed his name, has been a folk MP here for many years. So when minorities participated in the elections, they always had representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour and support this bill, but provided that the amendment we have submitted is accepted; this means that when voting in the diaspora, i.e. among citizens living abroad on these election boards, a category of an extended composition of the electoral committee is introduced, where a representative of the electoral list, which was verified by the Republic of Election Commission, would enter to ensure multilateral control of the course and how to vote abroad. Also, on the other hand, we have not submitted the amendment, but I think it is good to accept the amendment regarding the vote outside the polling station. I think someone from the Serbian Radical Party has submitted such an amendment. This bill provides for two members of the electoral committee to leave the polling station. There should also be more, but representatives of different electoral lists. We hope that we will not welcome the next extraordinary parliamentary elections with this law and with these amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. We will vote in favour of this proposal, but we ask that a serious debate be launched immediately on the whole of the electoral legislation, because electoral legislation cannot be changed from case to case. As for the Socialist Party of Serbia, I must say that we do not have a great need to initiate changes in some laws or constitution from the time that we were in power, but since we are here in the minority, if there are such initiatives we need to approach immediately so that it does not happen as in the past period when DOS was in power - we had two or three years of DOS authorities, and that almost no system law has been passed and everyone has been complaining about the Constitution of our time, the laws of our time, and they have not found fit to change any of these laws without talking about the Constitution. So, we will vote in favour of this bill on the condition that the Proposer will meet these proposals to ensure multilateral control not only during the vote, but also for the establishment of electoral lists and everything else resulting from this election process, and if there is one general mood for all to come together through various types of committees, commissions or some other bodies to come up with a good electoral law that will bring us to some extraordinary or regular parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u524	Mr Ristivojevic is represented by the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u525	Article 36(4) The Law on the Selection of National MPs says: "Decisions on the fulfillment, i.e. failure to meet the conditions for determining the representatives of the RIK electoral list to the applicant of the electoral list within 24 hours of the time of adoption of that solution". The following is said: "A representative of the voters' list becomes a member of the electoral committee in an extended composition 24 hours from the time of adoption of that solution". This is a general provision that applies to all election committees no matter where they work, whether they work in a country or abroad, if our bill is passed. This general provision regulated the representation of the entire party's public or all applicants of the electoral lists on all committees, regardless of whether they are abroad, to be in the country. So there's no need to stress that out. If it's necessary, if someone insists so much that it has to be especially stressed, although I don't see the reasons, because the general provision covers all election committees and doesn't make any difference, if it has to, then fine, but indeed the general provision covers everything and there's no need for special additions. We'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u526	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill of law that has a sign of urgency and that is intruding into part of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and I don't see any reasons for urgency because I already hear from some representatives of the coalition who are going to rule that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs should be fundamentally amended. If it was the prospect of calling elections for MPs, I might understand, but obviously it wasn't. Then I'd like to know what we're going to get by altering, by only getting into some provisions of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments? We, right away, have submitted amendments to this bill and we think that by accepting our amendments the law can also be adopted in the National Assembly. If accepted without amendments, it will remain unspeakable and shrub, and we will prove it through discussion and defence of its amendments. I want to look at three subjects in principle through three members of the law, and in fact it's three topics that the law here particularly states. In Article 4, the legislator introduces two newspapers: that each citizen can apply for registration or removal from the electoral list for each citizen and that the applicant of the electoral list has the right to see and to submit requests for amendments to the voter's list. Where does that lead us, if it is known that the list of voters is entrusted with a job done by local self-government, that it is interested in local self-government and citizens? Therefore, whether a citizen of the NN is listed in the electoral list is concerned by the local self-government that is obliged to sign it or write it and the citizen of the NN who is interested. Why should voters only check the list of voters? Why wouldn't Cesid? Why don't the NGOs? Why don't the Council of Europe change and enlist voters in the lists? It's a lot of shit. Or just every citizen. Why can't the citizens from abroad now get ballots, including the individual citizens, to report which are listed or not registered? It is better to accept the amendment by the Serbian Radical Party that a citizen checks his entry and that the applicant of the electoral list cannot file an amendment to the voter's list. It's a clean job. An individual entry into the polling list is an individual matter, not a matter of applying by neighbors, relatives. That's one serious job. What if 100,000 people come to you asking you to delete someone, a hundred, two hundred or five hundred thousand people from the list? Who's gonna check it all out? When's that gonna work? This is a technical question that I'm not interested in too much, it's going to interest our lawyers who meet you at RIK sessions, where, I think, lawyers should cooperate well, because it's purely legal matter, and I think they work well together, regardless of which political parties they come from. Since October 5th, I think it's hard for RIK members to dare break the law, and I think that's a good thing. We go to article 11, which is a newspaper, which represents the realization of the promises made by the DSS in a pre-election campaign in its contacts with representatives of our citizens who live and work abroad, which is that it will finally be possible for our citizens to vote abroad. That sounds nice, it's written, that's what you're talking about, and you already know here, and you're saying that it's going to be hard for that provision to be applied to the election. This law, this provision is applied accordingly to the election of the President of the Republic, and you know it very well. The election for the President of the Republic will be very soon. Will the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro be established, what if your foreign minister is from Montenegro? What, for example, will be in Moscow where the ambassador who, truth be told, took an official plane 15 days ago to be an ambassador, but told before he left that he did not recognise Serbia and Montenegro as the state? Will he arrange elections for you at the Moscow embassy? And how much is Russia and how many time zones are you crossing in Russia from the end of the East to the end of the West, how many seats are there going to be elections on Russia's territory? You say that in every polling post, in these diplomatic and consular representations, a lawyer should, as a rule, conduct an employee in the diplomatic and consular representation. First of all, how many lawyers do we have employed in embassies and consulates, and secondly, how many people do we have employees, say, in Australia? If there are 20 of them, can they conduct elections in the territory of all Australia or will the elections be only in Sydney, Melbourne, and he will travel 2,000 km to come to the elections in the country he is in. We tried to show you that we want this law to be implemented, but that no one steals any votes from us. And now I'm telling you, this law did not allow our citizens abroad to vote, you didn't. There is a possibility, but he will be somewhere in a country that has a long way to go, rather than people from half of Europe who would come to Belgrade to vote. You didn't let them vote. Make it so. We want control at polling stations. It's not worth the general order. At every polling post, list applicants have the right to control. What happens if we determine Peter Petrovic to control the Bon elections and Germany refuses to issue him a visa? Will you hold elections without the SRS controllers? Then who would confess them to you? If people already come to Bon to vote, how are you going to explain your position that there is no choice, because no radical has arrived? In the last parliamentary elections, we had 15-16 members of the electoral committees in an extended line with the ballot box. You've been talking here for a few days about the cost, what it's going to cost 15-16 members of the election board in every place in the world where it's going to be voted, and everyone's going to send their activists out of Serbia. Next, you say you let them vote. Election law is active and passive. Can our citizens living abroad run for office? I can't. You didn't provide for a provision to collect signatures in the country where he is, who's going to verify his signatures there. However, in order to run, he must come to Serbia to collect signatures and to have municipal courts verify his signatures. Half his voting rights were immediately refused, and that half of his rights was declared. The provisions I'd like to stay on are the provisions of Article 12, because I'd like to make sure there's no doubt about it, and because here you're representing that it's in your best interest to protect the rights of minorities. This debate will be interesting because it might occur to you that you are accusing someone of not wanting to protect minority rights just because it is against such a solution in the electoral law. Article 12 adds two positions in article 81, and they read: "Political parties of national minorities... "(President: Time. Yeah, I'd like a second part. .... "The political parties of national minorities and the coalition of the political parties of national minorities take part in the allocation of mandates and when they received less than 5% of the votes cast by the total number of voters who voted. "Here is a representative of the legislator who proposed the law said it was in line with the Serbia-Montenegro Constitutional Charter. He knows that there is no foothold in the Constitution of Serbia, and now that we need the Constitutional Charter to bind ourselves to the provisions of the Constitutional Charter. You have not moved one step by realising the Constitutional Charter, you have not taken any steps to establish any relations between Serbia and Montenegro. Now that Serbia's elections are to be held, we now have the Constitutional Charter, which I guess should be applied directly. Why didn't you, within the deadlines foreseen by the Constitutional Charter, adapt the Constitution of Serbia to the Constitutional Charter, but you suggest that something from the Constitution of Serbia does not have to be respected, because, to God, the Constitutional Charter predicted it in another way. Who else respects this Constitutional Charter? What is the name of this state where you call for any importance of the Constitutional Charter? I'd like to try to introduce you to the members of the Constitution that you directly injure by such a provision. Article 1: "The Republic of Serbia is a democratic state of all citizens who live in it, based on the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, on the rule of law and on social justice. "The Republic of Serbia is a democratic state of all citizens living in it. Article 11: "Freedom and the rights of man and citizen are restricted only by the equal freedoms and rights of others, and when the Constitution has established them. "You will now give a certain group of citizens more rights than others. You must respect the citizens and their right to have the exact same rights. There is no positive discrimination. You seniors know, after the war, when we were buying bread, so buy half the bread and the seller cuts about half, if you get a little bit more, so you're positively discriminated, the next buyer gets less. He's under 500 grams. You can never discriminate positively without someone feeling hurt about it. No law that is not possible for all Serbian citizens is the right to apply, or I may not know enough democracy, and you call me here anyway, both ultranationalist and fascist, some dare call me. Article 13: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties... "so I don't read you any further about protection, but they're equal in rights and duties. To choose and be chosen, it's your right and they must all be equal. Article 42: "The citizen who turned 18 has the right to choose and be elected to the National Assembly... ". "The elections are direct, the electoral right is general and equal, and the vote is secret. “ General and equal voting rights, and no one is looking at your ID as your last name and whether your representative with 2% votes will enter parliament, and the next time he shows his ID card, you tell him - yours must win 5% of the votes to enter parliament. Article 49: "The citizen is guaranteed freedom of expression of nationality and culture and freedom of use of his language and letters. The citizen is not required to declare his nationality." These are the rights that the Constitution predicted in 1990. What does the lawmaker say? The Republic Election Commission will decide on the position of the political party of the national minority, or coalition of the political parties of national minorities, on a proposal by the voters. Now that the political party delivers the list, it must also deliver the statutes to the Republic Election Commission, and the Republic Election Commission will seek a provision in the statute under which the political party represents the rights of national minorities. Are there any political parties here that will not represent the rights of national minorities? Are there any political parties here that have no members of the national minority, activists, officials? Will we now have to delete the right of members of the national minorities to be members of Serbian political parties? And will there then be more minority members in the Serbian Parliament because they have the right to be elected faster than members of the national minorities on Serb political parties' lists on the basis of an abolished censorship or a natural censorship? Mr. Stefan Zankov was on a list that had to meet 5% of the votes won to become an MP in the Serbian Parliament. Will his neighbor become an MP with one percent vote, just because he's in the other political party? They both belong to the same people. Is that a ghettoisation? Do we force members of national minorities to join their political parties? What if he wants to be with a big political party, if in her program, in her operation, he's found himself completely in her statute? What will the neighbours tell him now -- what are you running for, that radicals get more votes, that our Bulgarian party doesn't pass the election? You're opening Pandora's box here, with one member you want to solve the question of whether national minorities have entered parliament or not. It's being solved the other way. Do what we did, we radicals. Call Jožef Kasu, Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin and all other representatives of minorities who have political parties and run with you on the lists. We did it in public, we'll do it one more time. Come with us on the list, you'll pass safely. We'll arrange, by the number of voters, how many MPs you have. As soon as the election is over, form your parliamentary group. You entered as a minority party in the Assembly. I'm not ashamed of them coming in with the power of the SRS, not like this. Let's stamp them, let each voter get a stamp, that vote for a list that's 1% enough, and that vote for a list that's 5% enough. It's a homogeneous environment. In eight municipalities in the north of Vojvodina are in most Hungarians. They will feel that this is the way they are disturbed by Serbian parties, and until yesterday, he was proud to be members of non-majority parties. Here political parties are praised to minority members who are MPs. They should be praised, and it should be nurtured, not decomposed. You draw the hatred of other members of that minority on them, why he's not with them. Why should he be with them? Does the constitution say they must belong to the parties of national minorities, that their programme must be represented? If he doesn't like the program, he has to start a minority party, report it, go to elections, so he can do something. It's easy to promise, it's easy to pretend, hypocrisy is known, pretend -- here, I solved the problem. You haven't solved the problems. A national consensus could be reached here, so that no one would object to us. What did you run for? They complained that Joseph Kasa, Rasim Ljajic, had not entered parliament. Now, as soon as they have not entered parliament, they say minority rights are at risk. One is the vice-president of the Republic government, another member of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, and says minority rights are at stake. As soon as he's out of office, minority rights are at stake. For three years everything was fine, all the elections so far were fine, because Joseph Kassa entered parliament and was always privileged by those in power. You know, when we were in opposition here attacking Joseph Kasu, he was defended by the SPS. When we attacked him as a member of the DOS, he was defended by the DOS. You've always calculated -- the big electoral body, they've brought us votes, they've brought us MPs. I have no objection to any political idea being represented in parliament, if it can win a number of votes. What can the SRS do? What we did with the amendment -- we bring the general censorship down to 3%. You can't say anyone's been discriminated against right now. Two parties of national minorities can automatically enter parliament, form a coalition. We did not say, as is the case in other countries, for the political party 3%, for the coalition 6%. Let's see what that looks like then. No, we said every three percent list, so make it 10 parties on the list, make it one, make it two or three. Minority members will enter. You make concessions to their political parties. The concession is to call them to the coalition, not to knock out their censorship, because it is something that cannot be accepted in Serbia. (President: Time. I'm done. The voter who votes for the SRS, I'm not calling on the rest of you to worry about whether it's over 3%, and the voter who votes for another political party to worry about whether it's over 1%; or 5% for the radicals, and 1% for the others. He can't, we're even. Equality implies that you sometimes squeeze the loop and say - point out to me part of the Framework Convention on the Rights of Minorities which Serbia has not fulfilled. I'm calling on this great minority rights fighter to show me where we haven't surpassed the Framework Convention, not just where we didn't join her.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u528	Mr. Ristivojevic, representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u529	Dear fellow Members of the People, after such an exhaustive presentation, I will need a little more time to explain some of these remarks we heard from Mr Nikolic's esteemed colleague, but I will try to be brief, in order to make this debate as effective as possible. First, why should each individual for themselves, then for the other, as well as applicants for the electoral lists have the right to see the voter list and may seek interventions in it? Because they all have a legal interest. That's the idea that's coming from. In any case, it is natural and normal for one party to have a legal interest in clearing the voter's list and to be able to seek interventions in it. It's perfectly normal that anyone can do it for himself. Why everyone for each other? Because it's quite possible that there may be some of our deceased fellow citizens on the list. How is he going to come from the cemetery to intervene to be erased from the list? No, but someone else will intervene for him: whether it will be members of his family, his neighbors, fellow citizens, whether anyone interested, a representative of some political party in some municipality, who knows that his five fellow citizens have passed away and will then go to the municipality nicely and ask, on the basis of evidence, for an intervention in the list. The election list promoter has an interest in clearing the voter's list. I think it's really pointless to talk about why one party has an interest in keeping the voter list clean, orderly and organized properly. Why did CeSID, when you mentioned it, or the Council of Europe have no legal interest and why don't we give it to them? CeSID only deals with the election and he doesn't care if the voter's list is neat. He will write in the report – neat, or – messy, and does not care whether it is neat. The Council of Europe is even less interested. CeSID also sees the elections in Serbia, but the Council of Europe is even more withdrawn and it is natural and normal that we will not give it any right to intervene on the list. No one here argues that interventions in the voter's list remain a right belonging to the Ministry of Justice and is entrusted to municipal administrations. Otherwise, all those who have a legal interest in intervening on the voter's list cannot change it, they are obliged to submit evidence to the ministry which is competent, or to the municipal administration, which is there as responsible for the entrusted work to submit evidence when intervened. So whoever intervenes for his deceased fellow citizen will have to file evidence, like a death certificate or something. All of this doesn't mean at all that the municipal administration, which runs the electoral lists as a trusted job, has no duty to do this on its own. She should do it herself. The ministry that's competent to do the job should just do it; so you know what we did in the 2002 presidential election to get Mr. Shabic to do his job, so he didn't do it well again, it was still after the election, we found, 48,000 just double-listed, and where all the other categories are, not to talk about past elections now. As for the vote abroad, I repeat, I've said it several times, watch the matter dynamically, not statically. Consider the condition you now have and which you will have if we adopt this law. Now our people abroad -- thanks to the fact, the distances of the place where they live, and the places where they are listed in the voter's list, where they should vote -- do not go to the polls at the most. Yes, it is, the election won't be ideal, we won't be able to make these special records any time soon for all people staying abroad, but for the most part we will. And that, dynamically speaking, will be progressing against the state we have now. You, a distinguished colleague, mentioned Nikolic – and what if he wanted to run abroad. So what if he wants to run abroad now? He's got the same problem. We didn't even touch that question. He can come from abroad, pick up 10,000 signatures in Serbia nice and run. He can do that abroad. Why don't the diplomatic consular office confirm his signatures. The only question is what's he gonna run for election if he lives in Ottawa or in Brisbane; well, he probably won't run when he lives there, he won't even come here, which means he probably has an interest in voting. If a man wants to return, it's natural and it's normal to give him the right to vote, to connect him more strongly with this country, to interest him in his future, and we can only do so if we give him the right to vote. How do you want to get and stimulate these people to invest in this country if you don't allow them to, at least to a greater extent, influence the decision in it. As regards the vote of national minorities, i.e. The party of national minorities, I see, was the most objective. But I have to get back to one more thing. This citizen of ours who lives abroad and stays there does not necessarily have to vote in that diplomatic-consular representation or in that polling post as defined abroad. Why? Because the voter's list for his vote abroad is a special record. It's the one that doesn't get into the final and total number of voters. Which means -- he's on the polling list here and here in Serbia and there. If he is closer to him or wants to come home (e.g. They won't vote there, they'll vote here. If that's not the situation, they'll vote there and not here. In any case, his vote is not written twice, because that special record does not go into the total and final number of voters. We've made this particularly clear. Furthermore, we have heard from this pay phone that you will beat us from Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Monroe, Sydney, Harare, via Ottawa, Vancouver, Chicago, Miami, etc. Well, if you have so many voters and so many people who support you, it won't be a problem for you to find people of trust in all these places, who will be members of the election boards there. So it's more celery and it's not necessary for people to be paid here for extremely expensive airline tickets, staying abroad, to be controlled on behalf of you by an election procedure. You'll find among your many voters in Brisbane who will control the election. We're looking for a more cellular solution here now. I am not saying that it is not impossible and I am not saying that the Republic of Serbia should not bear the burden of the electoral process. You should. But if there's one more cellular solution and it's cheaper for this country, we better back it up. The DSS certainly won't ask for its members or providing expensive hotels abroad, or providing airline tickets and the like. Where we want to exercise our right to control the electoral process, we will find people on the spot, contribute to this savings and budget in this country. There's no need to send people out of here and pay for it. Furthermore, as far as the inequality you honor us with regard to citizens who are members of national minorities, this is not a matter of creating inequality. Up until now, the parties of national minorities have always been represented, but now the electoral process has shown that a serious obstacle can also arise. We have come to the situation that some members of national minorities, who are not politically engaged through parties that are not party minorities, have remained deprived of their right to be politically expressed in this body, the representative body of the Republic of Serbia. What we're predicting is not obligations for minorities, they're rights. Still any member of the national minority can be a member of a party that exclusively does not represent minority rights, he can still run on the party's list, he chooses what is better for him. If he thinks that his political interest will be easier to articulate, channel in this representative body as a candidate for a member of the national minority party's MP, he will choose it. If he doesn't like it, if he still wants to be a member, you mentioned your member, a respected colleague of Zankov's, if he wants to be a member of the SRS and on that list chosen, nothing prevents him. He simply decides what he thinks is better. The effect won't be any depravity. I still think the effect will be that the strongest parties will all want to join, which means that you, as the single strongest party, will probably have the largest number of these people. Everybody loves a winner. It's natural and normal. There's not gonna be a dent. And what's a hindrance to very small parties dealing with minority rights, that's the so-called. The natural threshold, how many votes it takes for one MP. In fact, it represents some kind of censorship for them. If for all other parties the censorship is 5%, to seriousise the scene, to keep small parties from entering parliament, to get a more stable parliament and from it a more stable government, then we have a natural threshold that will somehow perform that function for the minority parties, so that the party that has 1,000 minority members does not succeed in getting some MPs and entering parliament. More or less, I think I have written down all the objections that Mr. Nikolic has made and that I have responded to them, and if any more objections arise, I will come out and explain this proposal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u530	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u531	For the sake of the public, let me inform you that I did not assign a young gentleman to promote our victory. This is him on his own. But you'll need a little more water to drink and a book to read so you can talk about what you don't have the arguments for. It happened to me, too, that sometimes I have to defend something publicly that I don't have the arguments for, so I did it much more convincingly. Here, let's just look at the vote in diplomatic and consular representations. All the time, except for a year and a half, we were in opposition, and all the time I wondered why Slobodan Milosevic didn't pass this bill. He could, except he was strong at the time, so he thought he didn't need those voices at all. All along, you insisted on voting abroad, voting abroad. If the law had been passed, the socialists would have received foreign votes in this way, if the government had controlled the regularity of the foreign elections. That's why, when there was an idea, while we were in government, to do it for the 2000 elections, Vojislav Seselj said he couldn't. Are you ready to secure the opposition to keep the ballot boxes? We didn't. We won't allow it to vote abroad. And there was the consent of the SPS. Look what I've heard now – since you've got a vote all over the world, you set up your constituents out there in the world to keep your ballot boxes safe, we're not going to send you out of here, we're going to make sure you control the election. Well, you're power. I don't care if you guys make sure you control the election. Yes, you can. You won't, you don't have to. I'm asking that we have the right to control the election. That's the difference. And we don't want to hire people who live there. We want whoever we want. We want to send people from here who have been fighting in Kosovo and Metohija with the Serbian police to ensure the regularity of the vote. That's what we want. Come out here and say it, don't throw it out of the chicken. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] So either it will be possible for voters to determine a member of the electoral committee by name and last name, with an address anywhere in the world, because there is also vote anywhere in the world, or there will be no choice in that polling post. If there won't be a choice, why are you predicting it? Why don't you make a law to predict there'll be a choice? Why the diplomatic and consular representations? Let's get Germany to open up all its polling stations. You made it possible when it was voted in Croatia. You were opening polling stations. Many polling stations in Serbia were opened when elections were held in Croatia. Croatia voted not only at the embassy in Belgrade, but at all places. You forget that. We're for justice. May one who has the most votes of the day win, but no one comes out with any doubt whether it's counted or not. When we count, whoever wins, let him rejoice, whoever loses, prepare for new elections, because the election will be as long as Serbia exists. The election will be after us. The choice was before us. Only politicians remember about that... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... How did they behave when they were in opposition, how did they behave when they were in power and how did they conduct the elections? Let me remind you, there is still talk in Serbia about rival radicals, double voices, I'm sorry Rados isn't here. Then the government said: the first radicals cannot. Who is the second? He's got two votes. Never mind, he's an MP. It's the MPs. They're the two-votes. That's how you became a position here now. Without a little position, two votes, think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u532	All MP groups have tabled a proposal. Here you go, Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u533	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Democratic Party will support this bill, above all because this bill contains positive discrimination from representatives of national minorities, i.e. allowing representatives of national minorities, past the list of political parties of the majority people, to enter parliament and to be ex-legations represented in parliament. We have, however, many objections to that part of the law that defines who the representatives of the national communities are, we have an objection to what the RIK's powers are, in which way the diaspora vote is organised. What is problematic is the identification of a natural threshold for representatives of national communities, therefore, those values, i.e. the number of voters needed to win one parliamentary term, which is sufficient if the national minority party gets the number of votes to enter the parliament from that list. We've got a few problems here. One problem is that in Serbia, there are over 12% of national minorities living in this moment, not counting Kosovo. So over 900,000 Serbians are representatives of national minorities. Under this law, practically representatives of the Hungarian, Bosniak, Roma national minorities could enter parliament. Hungary has 293,000, Bosniaks 13,000, Roma 108,000, all other national communities have fewer. It would only be possible for other national communities, some of these national communities, to have over 20 which are significantly represented in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to vote all in favour of the national minority list, but also at that time it is very difficult to imagine entering parliament, i.e. to cross that natural threshold. We are stratification of national minorities, which would not be controversial compared to the fact that it is natural for someone with multiple members to be represented in parliament, someone less likely to be, but it is disputed that most members of the national minorities in Serbia will not be able to exercise the right to their representative in parliament; but for those national minorities who exercise the right, for example for the sake of the Hungarian national minority, if there is a large dispersion of votes within political parties, or political corruption of those national minorities, we know that the Hungarians have six or seven political parties, it can easily happen that no list, or any political party achieves the number of votes needed to win one parliamentary mandate. Some comparative legal experiences are much more constructive, in that sense, they define the number of MPs who enter as representatives of national minorities into parliament and within the Corps that is foreseen by law. That is the case in Croatia, where we have three representatives of the Serb national minority. So they go by nature things into parliament. It is not always the same number of MPs behind those mandates, behind Serbian mandates. There are over 20,000 voters in Croatia per term. So, more expensive by the number of voters, in a political sense more expensive, is the Serbian mandate than the Czechs, behind which 100 MPs stand, but that is also a criterion that ensures that a much wider body of members of the national communities is represented in parliament and I think that this approach would be much more constructive. We have an objection to how the RIK's competence is defined in defining which parties are party national minorities. In Article 12(3), it says: "Is the applicant of the electoral list the position of the political party of the national minority, or the coalition of the political parties of national minorities, the RIK decides when declaring the electoral list and, on a proposal from the applicant of the electoral list, which must be placed in the submission of the electoral list? "There is a great danger of the arbitration of the political majority within the RIK to identify who are authentic representatives of a particular national minority or which are party representatives of the political interest of those national minorities. RIK is a body that is politically defined, a body that contains representatives of political parties and that arbitration can be dangerous in both internal political and foreign policy terms. Much more specifically, it was necessary to regulate how RIK can define who the parties of national minorities are. In this regard, we will support the amendment of MP Bajram Omeragic, who defines something broader in what way the RIK, based on the statutes, is based on the political party programme, etc., defining the possibility of arbitration being maximumly reduced in the identification of the lists. There's another principled problem. It consists of us equating this bill to the political and national identity of members of national minorities, i.e. we practically force them to establish parties of national minorities. It is well known that most national minorities in Serbia do not have a political party, not organised through political parties. Therefore, Hungarians, Bosniaks, Croats were organized, but some other communities that have a respectable number of 40,000 or 50,000 members were not organised. There was simply a need to define the possibility that through a list, that is, through a certain number, let's say 100 citizens, or I would not now quantify, not through a political party, but through a proposal, through a number of signatures, to run individual representatives or lists representing the interests of national communities. They're not purely political interests. That's what's important to say. So, we cannot safely be guided by the fact that the entry into parliament implies the obligation of a political party, before these representatives of the national communities primarily intervened and intervened in parliament dominantly in the fields of culture, education, information, therefore, in areas relating to the preservation of national identity and not necessarily to the political aspect of the segment of the functioning of that national community or state at all. There are several problems with the diaspora vote. The problem is one fact that, as the Republic of Serbia, by passing a certain law, we cannot force other countries to implement or allow the voting process in those countries in certain polling stations. In our diplomatic and consular representations, we can do that. The question is, when we talk about Chicago where there are 250,000 Serbs, we have one consulate, there is about a thousand voters per polling place on one day, or in one election day. If we have 100,000 voters and 50 percent turnout, that is, there are 50,000 voters who go to the polls in ideal circumstances, so it takes 50 polling stations. It's a very big technical problem and this law absolutely doesn't solve it. The other thing where we also have a big problem is the control problem. If the state, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the state apparatus organises an election, the question of the possibility, i.e. the right of the political opposition to control the election process is raised. If there is no control of the election process, then the question of the validity of such a vote is raised. So, will that allow us by foreign states to open up polling stations on its territory, that is a big question. Would the Republic of Serbia perhaps allow the state of Albania, any other country, and it happened with Croatia, because of a large number of refugees who came from Croatia to live here; but whether we can in principle believe that America, Canada and other countries will open up polling stations or give permission to organise parliamentary elections for the Serb assembly in them, we cannot be sure of that. So, the problem of voting in the diaspora is multiple and principled, and this issue should be resolved, but our belief is that we have rushed this law, that we have not come up with all the problems that arise in the vote of the national minorities and in the vote of our diaspora, and we will only support the law because the perception of the public is the perception of the representatives of the national minorities at this point in relation to this law so that this law brings the possibility of national minorities entering parliament. The DS list allowed representatives of a national minority to enter parliament, but it is not in principle and it is not a consequential representation of the interests of national minorities, but with the support of the amendments that went with this law, and it is submitted by our MP, Leila Ruzdic, MP Bajram Omeragic, and some other amendments are here and submitted in the meantime), I believe that this correction will allow this law to work in a certain sense, but I think that, in the diaspora vote, given the constitutional categories that guarantee that the vote in the elections must be public, it must be possible to control the vote, to the end, be partially inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u534	First Mr. Djokovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then a representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u535	Since today, respected fellow MPs, we have experienced one education from Mr Nikolic that we have the right to make objections to the Rules of Procedure, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure Article 100(1) and Article 3. Paragraph 1 states: "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly," and Section 3 says, "No abusive expressions are allowed to be used... "Therefore, I want the committee in charge to be made aware of whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. If someone calls the National Assembly "a chicken" not offensive, I think for those serious people who belong to the real democratic forces in this country and who know what parliamentaryism is, it is an offensive term. As for the sale of votes, theft and trade, you traded and how you sold, so as not to remind you of who was in Turicovac, who was filling the box and was a member of the election committees in Turicevec, the municipalities of Serbs and other things. Not to remind you that you sold Milan Milutinovic the victory then, and then he gave you a mandate with Mirko Marjanovic, you entered the government, for a month you were, and then you hugged and kissed him, and you ruled well with them and "happily" Serbia until 1999, until NATO bombing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u536	Replica, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u537	I wish the MP who turned to Serbian radicals like this had been so loud when the Serbs called him to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, when Vojislav Kostunica called him to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, where he was lucky to have been so strong and loud and opposed to his political party, but rather a fine mandate. First of all, I didn't insult anyone. I accept that I have offended the one I address in a direct speech from the pay phone. That nonexistent person who doesn't have the right to throw it at me, and throws it away, has no right to feel offended by me. That's why I didn't even get a warning. You didn't have the time or place to throw it to me. I got my word here, and you don't have the guts to ask for a word, you throw it out of the O.R. You're angry with the SRS and that government we entered. Because of this entry into the government, some people are in The Hague, as the government's goal was to defend Kosovo and Metohija. You should be slapping the heads of the great majority of the MPs who at that time did not care about you at all, not calling the Serbian Radicals, one of whom was killed during that war, and that is embarrassing to you. So when you're so brave when you hit a party that won 74% of the Serb electoral body in Kosovo and Metohija, support our initiative to discuss here a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, so that we don't argue here. I really represent a large parliamentary group, and I can't waste time on you coming out of the O.R. to discuss it with us. If you care about Kosovo and Metohija, let's stop Kosovo and Metohija from leaving Serbia, if you care, let's stop Nebojsa Covic from continuing to sell it. You don't care about anything, you need a seat and a little applause alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u538	Representative, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u539	Dear fellow MPs, I would just briefly refer to Mr Pajtic's presentation and give only a few answers to the questions he has asked. Yes, there are 250,000 Serbs in Chicago, but not all who are... I'd like to ask you, Mr. Nikolic, if you'd stay, I'd like to say one thing to you, so that it won't be that I said it when you're not here. So we have 250,000 Serbs in Chicago, but not all of them are citizens of this country and not all of them are on election lists here. So these people need to be turned down by that number that will vote, and then those who remain should be asked to vote. You know, in our bill of law, we envisioned other than polling stations in diplomatic and consular representations and other polling stations. I suppose, for example, that it could be in Paris at that former Yugoslav cultural centre, and now it's probably called the Cultural Centre of the State Community, so there are certainly other suitable places. This will depend on the host state to a good degree. For example, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have a contract that has been well regulated that elections in Croatia can open polling stations where elections for the BiH Assembly are usually held. Maybe we'll be able to make a similar deal with some country around here, maybe on the principle of reciprocity, we'll see, that'll depend on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm saying and I'm saying, this is a certain progress in relation to the fact that we don't have anything, so we need to look at it dynamically, not purely statically. As far as the parties of national minorities are concerned, we used the best we could, but I keep saying, it's not someone's obligation, it's just the right. I repeat, with regard to Mr Omeragic's amendments, which you pointed out, these amendments introduce a whole new category here, and therefore they were on the Committee and where I chair were rejected, I mean this minority list, they were completely unconformed, unconsistent with the whole of the law, and therefore they were more or less rejected. Now what I wanted to say, but Mr. Nikolic came out, I invite Mr. Nikolic whenever he wants us to sit down and count the books he read, which I read and hang up here, so let the MPs watch. And I would like to join Mr. Djokovic's remarks that an insult has been made and ask the Committee to plead. So, he insulted Mr. Nikolic by calling this assembly "a chicken". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u540	Mr. Pajtic first responded to the replica, so Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u541	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not a questionable intensity to allow diaspora, we will vote in favour of this bill. The problem is this: we have fully interpreted the diaspora voting category. Chicago may be a bad example. There are 150,000 Serbs living in Vienna, and it is mainly economic emigration from the 1970s and 80s, so people who under this law could dominantly exercise electoral law. If there are 120,000 voters among them, if the turnout is 50%, that's 60,000 people. The question of the host country's mood is whether it wants to accept or not to accept the vote. We can't know that, and it has to be regulated by a bilateral agreement. The second question, if this mechanism is in the hands of the state, we have states (for example, Canada, the United States or Australia) where the dominant emigration after World War II is politically profiled. We have countries where the dominant emigration from the 1990s is also politically different. We have the possibility for the arbitration state to conclude bilateral agreements with this or that state and practically manipulate it. I do not claim that this is an apriorious intention, but we must not allow the legal possibility to come to this, so that the arbitration defines who this bilateral agreement will be concluded with, which emigration will vote in the elections, which immigration will not vote with, and that all this depends on the host country. I think we ran very quickly into the regulation of this. It is a huge corps of our people living abroad and an enormous possibility of manipulation, and the control of the political opposition is absolutely not possible in these elections, or definitely difficult. It is difficult to allow controllers in Australia, Canada, or South Africa. These are problems that are too serious, which may be a matter of several hundred thousand votes. This could be the weight of a parliamentary party, perhaps much more than that. So it's too dangerous and there's too much open space in this law when voting diaspora that it might be principledly acceptable. I think it'd be best if that law were withdrawn, so it could be done. We will vote this way because of the right of national minorities to enter parliament without censorship. I don't think the message would be taken well-intentioned if we voted against the law, so we'll vote for it, but I think the room for manipulation is huge, regardless of who's in power. I'm not talking about the current state of affairs or anyone's evil intentions at all, but when you have a mechanism like this, there's a huge danger. We know what happened to us in the '90s, that such a mechanism is absolutely misused, to make such political mathematics that hundreds of thousands of votes are subject to manipulation in the elections. It is a terribly dangerous thing, without control, without the possibility of the opposition parties affecting which countries will be organised voting and in which they will not. That's what scares us very much and makes me think this law should be done. I ask that the Rules of Procedure establish the quorum for the further work of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u542	I'm asking the MPs to put in their MP cards. I'm setting a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u543	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine if we have a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that as many representatives of the SRS as possible are criticising the draft laws or decisions on the agenda of the DSS, it is more nervous in their ranks, for reasons unknown to me, and therefore it is no accident that MPs who criticise Tomislav Nikolic appear without knowing what they are criticising him for. One of them, I'd say, in a rather angry way he tried to search for his emotions, trying to attack Tomislav Nikolic just because he responded to his rudeness. In all this, that constant call to the Administrative Board reminds us of some time ago that we thought had passed and that you would end up punishing MPs or looking for alleged reasons to tape someone's guilt tag and nothing more. Namely, anyone who throws out of place, and I'm willing to accept the same kind of responsibility, so whenever I do that, I never respond to the one who called me back from the pay phone. So it seems to me that this is some kind of rude game where we all participate from time to time, and whose results, after all, we have to accept. As far as the findings of the Administrative Committee itself are concerned, much better than Mr Ristivojevic's so-called speech, it would have been if we had heard a rational request, quite rational, to hear who had thought to falsify the report of the Administrative Board, which I have been insisting on for three days. For three days now, please, three days of assembly session, I don't mean in a physical sense, to which it occurred, whether Mr. Cvetkovic or anyone else, to falsify the decision of the Administrative Committee that made one decision, and then Mr. Cvetkovic wrote what he liked, because he couldn't and could not write something that would be offensive or not good enough for his bosses. I think it's something that's more serious and something that this congregation would have to do in a much more valid way. On the other hand, Mr. Ristivojevic is spreading knowledge here about cities around the world. I didn't know we'd have the most important elections in Monrovia, Harare, Katmandu or some other places. I didn't know we had a large number of Serbian emigrants there, or maybe it was Mr Ristivojevic who wanted to overshadow us with his knowledge. I'm ready, since he's talking about it, to go out and set up ten countries whether or not I know the capitals, so I know him, so who knows less to stop dealing with politics, and from this assembly pay phone. On the other hand, since Mr. Ristivojevic... (President: Time. This isn't a Millionaire quiz, this is the National Assembly. )......................................................................................................... discusses who has read how many books he wants to compete with Mr. Nikolic, I will paraphrasise Mr. Ristivojevic who said he has and that he can sort here on the books which he read, books read by Mr. Nikolic. Knowing Mr. Nikolic, I know that you would hardly remember the greatest part of those books or that you could remember exactly how many he read, and I'm not sure that there are a lot of books you've read, if you knew exactly how to line up and which shelves to line them up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u545	Replica, Mr. Cvetkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u546	Mr. Wolfie, I tried to avoid this call. However, since you insist, I must answer you. I didn't want to answer, I wanted to protect you, I wanted to protect Parliament. I wanted to pass without any significant consequences, an informal coalition on the Administrative Committee, where it is declared a violation of the Rules of Procedure one discretionary right of the President whether to give a break, whether to stop or not. The injury was determined by an informal coalition or formal one; votes, and you know which party was voted on by the breach of the Rules of Procedure at the time when the debate was already concluded on that agenda point. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there was a possibility that, if any consequences arise, the Administrative Committee would take measures, i.e. to make a decision which would eliminate the consequences. Among other things, you and I took part in the debate. You have made some proposals that are in no way in line with the Rules of Procedure, so on two or three occasions I insisted that you make your proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You couldn't; if you remember, and the other members of the Administrative Board were there, I found that the debate on that agenda point, where it was required to determine the breach of the Rules of Procedure, was completed, hours before the decision of the Administrative Board was made. It is not possible to return to the previous situation, i.e. to return the debate to its course, i.e. literally, to the previous state of the debate on that agenda. So something else should be known, at least to the lawyers and everyone who's at least gone past college -- in order to forge a decision, there should be a decision. In this position of the report, it is explained that the Committee has not made a decision or voted in favour of removing the consequences, and then it cannot stand to object that the counterfeiting of the non-existent decision has been carried out. The finding is in line with the fact that as Vice-President and found on the Administrative Committee, the debate on the agenda item has been completed and that it is not possible to restore the debate at the beginning or its course at that time. As I said, first of all, I wanted to protect the reputation of all MPs who are members of the Administrative Committee, because they made a decision by raping rights, literally, by rape by the majority, where it is doubtless in the Rules of Procedure that the President can, and that does not mean that he has to, and that is clear and linguistic and legal, and that is why the revote and the established violation of the Rules of Procedure has been carried out. The breach of the Rules of Procedure could not produce any legal consequences, because the debate on this point was concluded. I repeat, I have had a good will to increase the reputation of this Parliament and to stop this bickering, and one of you has just called for this, with the request of the Administrative Committee to decide whether there are injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not. I understand, and so many behind the pay phone say that our goal is to make and decide effectively on the proposed points of the agenda, i.e. to adopt laws. So that day I didn't answer your call, and now you've heard the real truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u547	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, and then a representative of the promoter, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting what we just heard. I refer to Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I was passing Law School, taking Milic and Danill for a walk in Tashmajdan Park, but I didn't need that either, Mr. Cvetkovic, to know that you forged a report on the Committee's work. You falsified it in a brutal way, and everything you said from this pay phone you shouldn't have said. You should have made a statement about the decision of the Administrative Board and it was none of your business, except in private communication or on television, not as president or vice president of the Committee. You could have had an opinion, so as such, you would appear here and say that, not talk about the Committee's position in such a way. It was yours (and you learn that in Tashmajdan Park, when you walk) to go out for a pay phone and say what the position of the Administrative Board is, whether or not the President of the National Assembly broke the Rules of Procedure, and what we said about the team, what we brought about. It was your obligation, not to write the report at the end: since the decision did not affect the course of the debate. Who are you to say that this decision did not affect the course of the debate, when we say that this decision did affect the course of the debate? You here teach the MPs and the whole public that it was rape or I don't know what it was. What a black rape, the Administrative Board has made such a decision, and that is sacred to you. You have to stick to it and just as a messenger to come out for this pay phone and say what the Management Board has brought in in response and nothing else to do. You went out here to give us political sermons and to teach us if we passed law school. Here, we are, walking around Tashmajdan Park. And where do you walk? Where is this law school you've graduated from; you're going out as vice president of the Administrative Board with your position, and you haven't given your opinion, and you think that's how you can teach MPs. Do not insult the Administrative Board or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this way, because it is not your job, but it is your job to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with what has been brought by the Administrative Board to meet the MPs in the National Assembly. The only thing that's true is that we couldn't find a legal consequence, for the simple reason that the Rules of Procedure didn't predict such a situation, because no one thought that you'd be doing such a miracle about the choice of governors, or about the lack of resolution, about the annulment of a decision, etc. (President: Time. Since no one could understand it, it was not possible to predict how such harmful consequences would be removed. Also, it's not our fault, it's you who's scheduled the session and when the potential decisions could be made and when they don't. I'd like to ask you not to think about who's passing, who's not passing. Maybe we're all passing through, maybe we're not passing through, but that's not your job. Stick to your work, stick to your obligations, it'll be better for you and for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u549	Mr. Wolfie, just tell me what you objected to, by what member? (Alexander Vukic, from place: Article 100(1)) "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." To whom is it directed - to me or to Mr Cvetkovic? (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Mr Cvetkovic. The fact that he insulted the work of the Administrative Board and did not accurately convey what the decisions of the Administrative Board were. ) False transmission is not an insult. I don't know what you're asking, did you abuse your right just to answer it or do you require something from the congregation? (Alexandar Vukic, from the post: I demand that the Administrative Committee be declared a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u550	I'm really surprised, Mr. President, that you didn't hear an MP who spoke completely offensively about the Administrative Committee, even though he was a member of it. That's why I'm supplementing Mr. Wolf's request. I would like the Management Board to declare that Mr Cvetkovic has injured Article 75 of Opinions 1 and 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you, too, have found that not expressing the opinion of the Administrative Committee here does not offend the dignity of the National Assembly. I think he's insulting. If the Administrative Board finds that Mr Cvetkovic went beyond the authority of Article 75, that he did not report here, but that he was expressing his opinion, then he not only hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, he has injured us all here. He usurped our rights here. Then he does not deserve to belong to a party called democratic, because the committee decides by majority vote, because the Committee's rapporteur is obliged to state the position of the board and, under Article 75(2), the person who disagrees with the opinion of the Committee shall be the member of the committee who has singled out his opinion. The Committee's rapporteur shall not be entitled to deliver an opinion outside the board's position. It may not do you any great harm to the Rules of Procedure, but it only warns us that you are prepared to do even more severe injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And don't tell us about the coalitions here, 'cause we're just gonna watch all kinds of coalitions here, you better shut up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u551	I still have to check it out. You filed two demands. The first is to refer this violation of the Rules of Procedure to the Administrative Committee and to refer the request to the DSS Constitutional Commission to examine Mr Cvetkovic's behaviour. This second one's a little harder, and this one's okay first. We have another announcement in the Rules of Procedure, or first relic Mr. Cvetkovic, and then Mr. Mihajlov. This wasn't a replica. This was in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u552	Ladies and gentlemen, I came out because of a replica just now, not as a committee reporter. The written report of the Committee was delivered to all MPs and is fully clear. Again, given the throw-offs, I underline, the final position is - the Committee did not decide, you know, the Committee in that part did not make a decision. I spoke of this earlier as an MP, and it appeared in a replica, not in the capacity of vice president of the Administrative Board. That was before, and you got a written report on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u553	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dejan Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u554	First of all, if we're talking about the Rules of Procedure, those who point out the injuries need to know why they stand out. Mr. Cvetkovic came out on the line and he was called here as someone who forged the administrative committee's decision, and he was called on a replica. And he did not speak here as rapporteur, because if he had spoken to his rapporteur according to a certain decision of the Administrative Board, he would not have spoken with a week of delay, but when that decision was made in the extension of that session, so that he did not speak here as rapporteur of the Administrative Committee but came out to respond to the replica. The way the Rules of Procedure is interpreted here, all in order to obstruct the Assembly, is extremely legitimate, but let's see what this leads to. Are we going to consider the work of this assembly until the end, to point out the completely unproven and unargued injuries of the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand, and on the other hand to insult the entire institution of the state by calling it a hen. These are some things that are deeply offensive to anyone who wants to participate in the work of this congregation. And if you think you can say, completely unargumented, that he falsified the decision of the Administrative Committee, which does not exist, it's a greater insult than anything else we've heard here. I would simply ask all of us to participate in the debate at the meeting of the Assembly, according to Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we do not insult the dignity of this congregation. This is a new assembly, and I guess we can all put a little more effort together to raise this assembly's ratings which have been completely disrupted for the past few years, and to refrain from the difficult words and completely anti-business behavior; to make joint efforts, as it has been so far, when the committee is being set up, making agendas and everything else, that there is some kind of mutual respect in this way, and thus contribute to this really being a parliament where we are going to lead academic, political, harsh but extremely dignified and responsible parliamentary debates, not to bring discussions in parliament to chickens, forgers, forgers and already what it is now. Come on, let's discuss the draft law on the agenda, in a way that will not offend the dignity of this assembly, and hence the citizens. Because calling MPs in the assembly that hens are therefore insults to the citizens of Serbia who chose them. That's not the way to discuss it in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u555	Any word from the motion's representative? He's giving up. ) We are moving on to a debate in order of registered Members of the People's Parliaments. The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, followed by Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u556	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law we're discussing today, the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament is a bad law. There are a number of major shortcomings in it, and aware of these facts, the SDP has been trying to convene parliament during the previous term its change, for the last time in just the evening of calling new elections. I would remind you that the SDP's proposal for this bill on the election of MPs was one of the points of the agenda of the last session of the previous assembly of parliament, but that due to the hasty calling of early parliamentary elections, it was not discussed and was not voted on. If it were, the assembly today would look completely different and would be much more legitimate, a reflection of Serbia's true political will. So, it happened that we have two major negative consequences of applying the applicable law on the selection of MPs. The first is seen in the fact that half a million people, citizens of Serbia, who went to the polls, were left without their authentic representatives in this parliament, and the second consequence is that the political rights of the parties of national minorities have been drastically denied. We think it would be best if this Law on the Selection of People's MPs had been completely changed and we understand that the proposer referred this proposal to the Assembly at the moment when it was unclear whether the Government would be able to be established and whether we would go to extraordinary parliamentary elections, or whether they would be repeated. However, in the new circumstances, when it is absolutely certain that governments will be, we expected the motionor to withdraw this bill and decide on a longer but certainly more quality path, the way of making a new law. But we now have this proposal and, in principle, the SDP must support it, even because of the fact that it marks three major problems and offers certain solutions for these problems. I will start first of all from the solution that we are most pleased with as a party, which we have long advocated, and that is to finally solve the problem of 700,000 people who represent persons with disabilities in this country, whose basic human right, the Constitution guaranteed - the right to vote - has been brought up a year-long question. So this is a multi-year injustice that has been committed, especially towards 75,000 people who are severely disabled and whose right to vote has been completely denied. This solution now offered by the proposer is quite good, although additional efforts could be made and, let's say, undertake to print a number of ballots in each polling post, so-called. In Bray's alphabet, so that blind people can finally exercise their electoral right. Another problem that is at the heart of the interest and functioning of the SDP is the problem of realising the political rights of the parties of national minorities. We consider the proposal to introduce the so-called. The natural threshold is a much better solution than before. But the SDP stands for a different solution to this problem. That solution is about reducing the high general censorship from 5% to 2%. We believe that, on the one hand, this reduction of censorship would also be possible for the parties of national minorities to enter parliament, and on the other hand, it would avoid a number of controversies that appear rightly in relation to this natural threshold, because it is the fact that it produces different treatment of political parties, which I don't think is even in line with the Constitution. The most significant failure and lack of such a bill is the fact that RIK is the one that determines who is indeed an authentic representative, who is a party to the national minority, without formal criteria in the light of some legal standards, so the question is how will someone interested in exercising their political right, that is, if RIK refuses to declare the party a national minority party to whom they will complain. This can be replaced, if it remains with this amendment and supplement law, through another law, that these criteria be introduced into the Political Party Act, and then, in some ways, it would be possible to correct this deficit currently occurring in this proposal that we now have. What is also a good initial step is to allow our people who have Serbian-Montenegro citizenship and live abroad to vote. It is primarily good because hundreds of thousands of people who have escaped or expelled in the 1990s have left for various reasons from the country; and I agree with all those who, in that sense, make arguments that it is good to tie them to the homeland, further motivate them to return. I will not speak of it specifically, except in principle, we agree, but what the SDP also sees are certain problems, i.e. inconsistencies regarding technical conditions, and here is what my predecessors have said about it, as problems,. The question that the promoter of my great grief and the disappointment of the SDP is not at all potentiating here and offering no solution, is the problem of gender equality, i.e. gender imbalances, because the fact that in Serbia 52%... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The electoral bodies are women, and that they are represented by only 10% in this House, is a fact that does not contribute to a democratic society, or society that claims to be called that. I remind you that it is at the level of poorly developed African countries and far below democracies such as Sweden, where women in parliament are represented by 47%, then Italy with 35%, or China with 26%. Such a presence of women in parliament is due to the generally poor position of women in society and I will only briefly, because of the time I have, to present a few data. For example, in Serbia's ownership structure, women are participating only 20% of property or private enterprises. Another flagrant fact is that each third woman, according to official data provided by the Serbian Victemological Society, is a victim of abuse. After all, can anyone offer better political solutions... Please, Chairman, warn the assembly. (President: I ask the MPs to die a little while, and I ask you to bring the end. ) Therefore, no one can make better suggestions here, concerning social policy, family planning or health policy, than women most concerned. Finally, just to remind you, the UN Security Council in 2000 adopted Resolution 3513, which has the same binding note as UN Resolution 1244 on Kosovo and Metohija, and it reads - every country, a post-conflict country, such as Serbia, has an obligation to install mechanisms in its laws that will allow women to attend more in parliament. So, for these and many reasons that I have not been able to present for a short while, I urge the Proposer to put this into its proposal to amend and supplement the Law on People's MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u557	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, there was really no reason to point out the urgency, to put this bill on the agenda, except that there might be an illusion in our public that we are doing something until the government is formed, and another reason could be to create an illusion that our citizens who live temporarily abroad are allowed to vote, i.e. to choose, as if they couldn't do it so far. A member of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, I think it is Article 41, I am not the safest, says that citizens in temporary work or abroad, at the time of holding elections, vote in the polling post in the last residence on the territory of the Republic before going abroad. So all of them were able to use their rights. Now, because of the pre-election promises that individual political parties have made to our diaspora, it should also be possible to vote abroad. In principle, we have no objection, provided that everyone is allowed to vote and provided that the political parties that have their electoral lists can have their own members at each polling post. We are not exactly the safest, nor has the promoter convinced us, that at this point we are able, that the government will be able to provide us with all of this, and that in itself it brings an unequal position and participants in the elections, as well as citizens who should vote abroad. I must again, because of the possibility that eventually the Constitutional Court will call, also point to Articles 1, 2, 12 and 13. Mr. Nikolic quoted some of them. Article 13 states that citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies, regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, etc. This member, Article 13. We violate the constitution by making such a provision regarding the so-called so-called Constitution. positive discrimination, although it is not a positive discrimination against members of national minorities, so the question arises – why do we not have such the same archeologist and when local elections are at stake. Why did you immediately propose amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government Elections, because, you know, there are municipalities where members of national minorities make an absolute majority compared to members of Serbian nationality. Are the Serbs living there threatened then, and you know very well that citizens are very interested in local government, because they are practically solving their basic life issues. They're never able to participate in power. Why don't we have the same archaic for local elections and then allow Serbs who are minority in those communities to have their elected representatives? Now, I don't know why or don't I know who we're courting, we're trying to push members of the national minorities into some ghetto, especially the smaller ones, and there's a lot of them. It is obviously only about advocacy, perhaps Muslim, I will not use the word of the Bosniak, or Hungarian national minority, as a number of national minorities that can influence the outcome of parliamentary elections, and all others cannot find themselves in this way in parliament, rather than doing everything in the context of political parties that exist on the political scene in Serbia, members of national minorities in their programmes find themselves and their own interest. It is truly unacceptable for RIK to be allowed to arbitration over which political party has the exclusive right to represent the interests of a particular national minority. Whether it will be the subject of various disputes or not, because, if you will, my personal impression is that the SRS is an exclusive representative of all national minorities in Serbia, we have shown it throughout its operation for the past 14 years and no one could challenge us. So then we show up, and then some other political party shows up, and then the third political party shows up, and then there's this absolute confusion. Imagine how complicated it would be, if Serbia were an electoral unit, how complicated it would be if Serbia consisted of several electoral units, let's say, some large political parties could declare themselves an exclusive representative of a national minority in that constituency where it mostly has a small percentage of the Serbian national population. This is a huge mix-up that can't be perfectly achieved in practice, and you'll let the election process still have to be completely legal, if we want the elected representatives to have legitimacy. If we only want to blur someone's eyes, say they're supposed to talk somewhere, write or say they've passed such a law and such a law in Serbia, that national minorities will have another archaic to elect their representatives in parliament from the Serb people, and if we're going to violate the Constitution as it is, we should respect it, then it's something else. One question is raised which the Proposer could answer. Will we be able to vote, say, in Podgorica or Kotor, whether Montenegro's national minority in Serbia, if it might establish a political party, let's say "the union of Krivoshi" so that, for example, it is an exclusive representative of the Montenegrin people, including the Sumadinians... So the question arises, since we have made it possible to vote in detention units and in prisons in Serbia, we have nothing against, provided the parties have representatives of the electoral lists again, to have their own controllers in those polling stations, whether the pronoun that will be in power will allow one polling post to be opened in Seveningen, there is an entire polling post under the electoral law, there is a sufficient number of voters, if they can in the country, why can't I and there. Wait a minute, I wanted to look back at one point, as far as the election is concerned, that's something that existed in our election law before the last changes in 2000. We have nothing against it in principle, again on condition that the president of the election board does not have this discretionary right to determine members of the electoral board, but that the electoral committee resolves each other, that the number of members is greater than that provided for by your draft law. It is simply incomprehensible why you provided in article 11 that the president of the election committee abroad must be elected from the order of graduate lawyers, since it is known that you do not have so many graduate lawyers in diplomatic and consular representations, especially in those countries where more polling stations would be needed, and we do not have enough diplomatic and consular representations, because we have closed for the past three years more than half of them. We don't see at all how you're going to be able to secure everything you've given yourself in this short period of time, and time is passing quickly. While you are establishing a government, while the government is elected, here we have presidential elections, this law should be implemented, and what if you fail in all of this, will you show your incompetence again, your trombone, because we are really sick of the democracy on paper and some rules of behavior on paper. We'd like to see it finally in life and reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u559	Mr. Ristivojevic, as a representative of the promoter, then Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u560	Just something to say about the voter seats in Cheveningen -- it should point out that the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is exterior in the Netherlands, meaning it is existing and being in the Netherlands on the basis of a contract with the Kingdom of the Netherlands and in its position as other embassies, literally as representations in all other countries, the United Nations body, or the Security Council, has been declared its independence in relation to the United Nations, which means that it would be a very big problem to conclude a contract with the Kingdom of the Netherlands in general that the polling post is in Sheveningen. It's impossible, they'll get out that the detention unit in Cheveningen is exterior and they don't have jurisdiction, and if you try with the UN, they'll argue that the body is independent and that it can't be negotiated with them, means literally only and exclusively with the president of the International Criminal Tribunal, which is now Mr Meron, he's the judge, and whether he can agree with him, I don't know, he can try, why not, as well as elsewhere, but you need to know that he's exterior there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u561	Thank you. The word has Mr. Angelkovic and it's the last speaker for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u562	Of course, it's not a question of whether it will be possible, but whether this law provides for it. Therefore, whether or not this state will, because there is an issue in many other voting places, but let's put it aside. This law can be said to be a good intention, but this law is one of those laws that is proposed at this session, which do not foresee the whole or treat the whole. There should be a comprehensive bill on elections in the agenda, where these shortcomings may be resolved. We can't say, of course, that there's no flaw, because there's obviously a lot of open spaces and possibilities and that it's interpreted differently, that it's not implemented to the end and that it's disabling itself in its own way. What's the point? Of course, the political position of the SPS is quite clear. On the one hand, we advocate to ensure that national minorities are present in parliament, whether in this way, in the way of the natural threshold or in some other way, but it is important to ensure that they are also present in parliament. On the other hand, when it comes to diaspora, it is quite clear that a mechanism must be found to diaspora vote and to ensure their presence in the republican parliament. However, where did we have objections when it came to diaspora? We have proposed an amendment that we believe that unless it is accepted, unless we find a solution for it to be implemented, it is essentially difficult to implement the law, because no one will believe it, or we may never finish the elections, because everyone will make objections to the results coming from abroad. We have an amendment here that speaks of political parties from here having to send representatives, and we can talk about whether it's a state interest, whether we have economic opportunities to do such a thing, but cannot prevent political parties from having them, if they have their activists in the middle, provide the composition of the electoral committees. Because if this is prevented and forbidden, if that is not foreseen, then basically the entire election process or other part of the law that is envisaged, all of this can come to one issue and any political party participating in these elections can dispute the election results, whether they are satisfied or not with the results that come from abroad. Therefore, it is necessary, even before we decide to support it, to discuss this amendment seriously, to accept the amendment in the way we have proposed, and to carry out an appropriate upgrade of the law, so that at least in one part it can be applied or can be controlled by all those involved in the electoral process. Of course, today, but even under previous laws, that question has been opened several times, I mean the voter list, because I am fully convinced that the promoter was aware that even for these presidential elections, since the law refers to presidential elections, it is not possible to get to the full list of voters, it is not possible that we have a complete list of people in the diaspora who should vote. But the most important thing is to prevent correspondence at polling stations abroad, to be exact, that only the voter list that's being verified here can be that list in Munich, Sydney, anywhere anyone can vote. If it is not there and if the election commission does not verify the voter's list, then any story about the legality of a choice would fall into the water and not get that meaning, and the proposer himself probably will. Whether 10,000 or 50,000 votes will be voted in these presidential elections, depends on how much the issue of clearing the voter's list is resolved, not how much someone would like to vote abroad. I think it's necessary to find out here and hear how we're going to solve where we don't have consular diplomatic representations, and we have a large number of our citizens living in those environments. Does this mean that consular-diplomatic representations in those communities will open up polling stations or someone has to go several thousand kilometers to the site. How'd that work out? Is that how we can solve it? Will it open there or won't it? Is the number of voters dominant for opening the polling station or just the seat of the consular - diplomatic representation that we have abroad? We know that over the last three years, 50 consular - diplomatic offices have been abolished and, therefore, the possibility of participating in the diaspora has been reduced. On the one hand, we want to include the diaspora, and on the other hand, in fact, by abolishing diplomatic representations, we are reducing. So I hope, if we adopt this amendment, that we will in some way supplement this law and allow the SAA to support this law. When it comes to national minorities, I have to say that this may be the most just - the natural threshold. However, all of us should advocate not to share political parties according to nationality. I guess we want to create a civil society where members of national minorities will participate in other political parties and thus participate in Serbia's political life. If we want to encourage national minorities to have their lists then well, then maybe this law is good in that way, but if we want to integrate towards the political definition of all citizens, and hence the national minorities, then it is likely that this law will distance us from the main objective we want. For this moment, I fully agree, and we support this, that it is important that representatives of national minorities through appropriate political parties be represented. However, it is necessary that citizens of Serbia already know, including national minorities, what is the criterion for the Republic Election Commission to accept a list as a national minority. I agree, Mrs. Pop-Lazic said well - what about the Montenegrins? Can Montenegrins make a list and be members? You'll say they're people. The question is, let's discuss it today. Therefore, it must be known exactly who has the right to treat you, whether or not Canak will declare himself a national minority and the Republic Election Commission accepts that he is on the list. They won't or will, it's not up to us to interpret it, but there must be precise rules where the citizens of Serbia will, and he himself knows he can't do it. Therefore, with these remarks that we think we need to find ways to clarify them and hope that we will adopt as soon as possible a comprehensive bill on elections that will address these issues, and with the wish and belief that the amendment will be adopted, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-23-0.u563	We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
