ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5890	The amendment to Article 28 reads: "A researcher in a clinical trial is a doctor of medicine, a dentist or a doctor of veterinary medicine involved in basic research and drug studies". This means that we have noticed that Article 28 does not provide for preclinical drug studies. The government has formulated the argument so that preclinical trials are not the subject of this law and the minister explained more widely yesterday, arguing that such solutions do not comply with European directives. We, however, believe that the law must provide for preclinical examinations and that it is not true that the EU Directive does not foresee the matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5891	Anyone else want a word? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5892	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I said that whenever there are arguments that do not stand and we are not satisfied we will intervene. We have been given the reason that the European Directives do not provide for preclinical testing. The experts involved in these studies, the labs, the nine signatories, the chiefs of these laboratories, are begging and demanding that they be regulated by the laws. I have passed the law of the Federal Republic of Germany. I hope you will agree that this is a European Community country, and in this law in Chapter 15, the names of professions that must be represented in preclinical studies are well-numbered. Please, the German law is an extraordinary law, and the 1993 Law, which some here disputed and said was bad, that it led to chaos on our pharmaceutical market, can be said to be "prescribed" by German law and belongs to the laws of hard regulation. That law was good. I'm not saying that it is not necessary to bring a new one, because of the changed conditions in the production and transport of medicines that have occurred in Europe and the world in the last few years. Germany is a European Union country that respects all European Union directives, and this law speaks of it all. You claim you don't need to talk about preclinical studies, and you're talking about good laboratory practice yourself, in your law. If you're talking about Good Laboratory Practice, what it's like instead of questioning when you're giving the licenses for Good Laboratory Practice. Isn't that preclinical? It's your instinct to very shallowly regulate things and that's the problem. We ask you to do things a little bit deeper and more specific. You don't have to like the German law, which does it on two sides in one article, but at least mention in three lines what profiles of experts are needed for this kind of research.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5893	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milomir Dunjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5894	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30. The bill on medicines and medical means, which reads: "Article 30(1), paragraph 1), after the word "apothecary", adds the words "and galenical laboratories". Of course, like many of our amendments and this one has been rejected, with a reason that pharmacies will also have galenical laboratories in their composition. We, the MPs of the SRS, believe that the Galen lab must also remain in this law, in force so far - and for what? And so far, the galena lab has been doing well and has been responding to its purpose and purpose. I don't think there's any reason to delete the current law, to join some drugstore that, according to us, can be favored by a drugstore run by someone's godfathers and relatives. That's why, once again, we're here to keep the galenical lab on its own, independent of the pharmacy. One more thing, to use Mr. Minister, we'll probably pass the drug law today. I just don't know in my House of Health in Serbia's Montenegro who's going to prescribe these drugs. For several years, the competition has been open to doctors all the time, believe me, no one's coming to us. No dentist, no doctor. What a dentist he's got, they're old people who are retired and for doctors not to talk. We've got a night shift for four people, and the rest of them have a daily shift, and they have 50 patients each. I think it's a very important problem, not only for us in Serbia's Montenegro, but also for the problem that happens at all. I'm asking you to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5895	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5896	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now continuing this initial debate of "for" and "against" galena laboratories. Yesterday it was only touched, but now we're going to start a more extensive debate, because the minister here gave his opinion on all this -- and what's the point now? The point is that the galena labs now exist are shut down. They have proved to be good in practice - and what is now the difference in the concept of our SRS, on the one hand, and this bill on the other hand? When we look at the problem, we at the center of this problem both in this law and in the previous laws and in all future laws will see a man, a patient, on the one hand, and on the other hand we will see the market and what the market through competition can do as a quality yes. It just happened in galenical labs. You had an expert team of people with complete equipment, closely specialized, who did galenic preparations. So these are medications with a very clear prescription, it's known in pharmacies, it's been done for more pharmacies and it's going to the market. This proposal tries to eliminate it and to form the pharmacy itself within its own galenical laboratory or, as the minister says, if he wants the galenical laboratory to do so, and if he won't make a contract with only one pharmacy that he will work with for two years or go into production with, that means that he starts producing other things that she's neither capable of, nor trained, nor equipped. For some to understand, I think of those who don't know what Galen medicines are, it looks like this in life: there's one production of yogurt and they're just doing it. Now comes the law and says, gentlemen, you will no longer produce it or you will only do yogurt for one store that we determine for you or you will have to go into production and other products of milk, cheese, etc. Which is where logic is now, and why we're trying, and why this law wants to shut down one production, one part of something. That's exactly the difference, and that's where we differ. Why do I say we have to watch the patient, because what does our citizen get if we shut down the labs and put on a foreign market drugs or industrial drugs? They're going to get more expensive products and we're going to get the forsification of one pharmacy that's, in a way, more privileged than others. On the other hand, this galena lab will have to produce only one pharmacy, which is very small and will not survive when it comes to the market. This different concept, between us and this bill, could be interpreted like this. How we feel what should be the task of the state to fulfill this human role of providing medication for patients. The task of the Serbian state should be to satisfy individual interests, to coordinate the interrelationships of all drug-supervising entities, to satisfy the interests of end-users, patients, and that is under point 1) of Article 30(1), which is the horizontal level of the organisation of the system, and there were talks yesterday. So to ensure that every link in the chain in its domain permanently meets the principle of providing quality, safety and effective medicines that will be available to everyone, I think of those that are needed at any time, at any place and at an affordable price. We've had this before with small labs, and now we're going to have a higher price, we're going to have it only for one pharmacy, we're going to have the pharmacy not meet all the conditions in quality or equipment, but it's going to get that license, if it pays the agency well -- it's going to have the right to produce them without doing them so far. So the bottom line is that we're going back to what we're fighting hard, that's: shutting down our production, wherever it is -- because we have to go to the system which is why it's someone's interest to constantly through the laws that are being served here, to shut down production, or anywhere. I guess it's the interest of this country to produce, even in small labs, in small plants there's always going on. So, by shutting down our production, this goal is being achieved, which is being set here before us, which is: the entry of foreign goods, the entry of foreign drugs, the import of foreign products by shutting down our products, and so we'll be in a position to completely close our production and we'll only have a side of the goods -- I just don't know what we're going to pay for one day, probably, with our underwear! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5897	Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. There's a word for Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5898	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 32 of this Law have been prescribed the procedure and way of obtaining or achieving a license to put the drug on the market. This article is prescribed to issue a marketing authorisation, that it is necessary to carry out pharmaceutical tests (chemical, biological); these are mainly chemical tests that determine the quality of the medicine, the amount of active substance, purity, and biological, i.e. microbiological studies that mean, above all, the microbiological or medical correctness of the drug. Furthermore, the obligation to study pharmacologically-toxicologically is prescribed. That's what pharmacologists have been doing so far, and I think this law continues to provide for, and that means testing toxicological and genotoxic and all other impacts, negative, drug. Finally, a very important drug study is a clinical study that will be conducted for human medicinal products in health institutions, and clinical studies of veterinary medicinal products will be conducted by competent veterinary institutions, which specialize in certain diseases of individual animal species. So experts of different specialities must be involved and related to animal diseases. Furthermore, it is found here in this article that the manufacturer is responsible for conducting the appropriate examination and documentation to be applied. Article 6 of this Act, under the authority of the Agency, provides that the Agency has the authority to carry out laboratory controls on the quality of the medicinal product or medical medicinal product, which implies that this national control laboratory will work primarily on pharmaceutical, chemical-pharmaceutical, biological studies, while pharmacological and clinical studies will be carried out by other institutions. According to Article 5(5), pharmaceutical, pharmacology and clinical study of medicinal products may be conducted by legal, or natural persons who meet the conditions of staff, space, equipment, as well as the conditions laid down in the guidelines of good practice; good manufacturing practices, good laboratory practices, good clinical practice in clinical trials. In the last position of this member, the way in question and the conditions laid down in Article 5 is prescribed by the minister responsible for health affairs. The purpose of my amendment and what I want to correct in this article is that it is precisely to assess the conditions and meet the conditions regarding the staff, the space, the equipment for testing veterinary medicinal products, that the department has jurisdiction in this regard, because I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture will have a much better insight into the equipment of veterinary institutions and the training for laboratory testing, in particular clinical trials. I think the health minister is unnecessarily taking jurisdiction that he cannot do in quality, because precisely because of the specificity, if you just want an example of a clinical trial, the health minister certainly doesn't have the right insight that specialist institutions, veterinary institutions, have exactly specialist personnel, so that some clinical trials can be conducted. I think the Ministry of Agriculture has a much better insight into all this and I think nothing will spoil this member if it is reported that for veterinary medicines to assess compliance with the terms of the Ministry of Agriculture. I hope this argument will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5899	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is amazing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Health, has not accepted any amendments, although many amendments have passed on to the Health Committee, or as this amendment where there have been five votes for, five against and one abstention. Article 34 is one of the essential members because it is a request to place on the market a finished drug containing (so it is taxa-listed) at least: point 1) administrative data containing the name of the medicinal product, generic name or chemical formula - ingredients of it all, pharmaceutical form, drug strength, etc.; in point 2) pharmaceutical-chemical-biological data, which should contain both qualitative and quantitative data on drug composition, the technological process of the medicinal product, etc.; in point 3) pharmacology-toxicological data containing data on the pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic properties of the medicinal product, drug toxicity data, and the impact on reproductive function. Then point 4 came to the point where most of it is unnecessary because it is clinical data containing general study data, study performance, study results, clinical pharmacology data, bioavailability data or bioequivalence data, when necessary. The amendment of the SRS has defined that in point 4 there should be some variations introduced by the Ministry of Health, which are: clinical pharmacology data and bioavailability or bioequivalence when necessary. In other strange terms, what the representatives of the SRS insist on is that all of this is already defined in point 3 because it is defined there that pharmacological-toxicological data contain data on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the drug. Exactly and clearly defined what pharmacodynamics are, what is the pharmacokinetics and if we know that pharmacodynamics are what is the effect of the medicine on human or animal organism, if it is the veterinary medicinal products, and if it is precisely defined, the pharmacokinetics of what is happening in the human organism, i.e. resorption, the distribution of drugs in organisms, drug metabolism, drug elimination, and if all of this is defined in point 3) were unnecessary for these terms and some strange variations to be defined in medicine to be placed in point 4) - bioavailable and bioequivalence. That is why we believe that it is necessary for the Minister of Health to respect what SRS deputies have defined and to respect the SRS amendment, because it is not only enough to be a passive listener and rarely to be involved, because rarely when there are arguments against all of this, it is to show good will and to improve this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5901	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dobrica Jankovic and Cedomir Petkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I speak more on behalf of the SRS, for the sake of the public, after the presentation of the esteemed colleague Dr Blazic and Dr Radulovic, who have already talked about Galenski medicines, I think it is unnecessary, because obviously the health minister is immune to all arguments. In Article 38, it is defined that the authorisations for placing the medicinal product on the market shall not be issued for: freeway drugs, galena medicines made in the authorised pharmacy and other medicinal products designated by the Agency in accordance with this law. A lot of arguments have already been said why the agency does not need to determine and why the SRS is for management and not for the agency. The first 20 amendments to the SRS went in this direction, so that the SRS amendment to Article 38 is not valid because of the agency, or because of the administration, but primarily because of the Galen medicines to be made in the authorized pharmacy. The amendments to the SRS are defined as follows: "Article 38(2) and (3) are amended and read as follows: 2)galenic medicines" (to only be without what is defined) to be made in a authorized pharmacy; "3) other medicines in accordance with this law", to leave out this part that has been defined to determine the Agency. What the representatives of the SRS insist on, is to eliminate the possibility of abuse and the possibility of corruption, which you can see for yourself that there is a possibility of abuse in many members of the law, either by the ministry or by certain factors participating in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the practice has already shown that galenical laboratories have proved to be good, as well as to make galenic medicines and to be a patient at the centre of attention of doctors and government, we don't see why a narrowly specialized laboratory that has and how professional people and when it's proven to know that they're making quality and good galenic medicines, without any side effects, why is it now necessary for the Ministry to destroy such laboratories that work well, and then to have the privilege of only certain pharmacies that the Ministry or agency will allow them to make these galenic medicines. Obviously, the possibility of abuse and corruption is high, and perhaps because they were huge financial expenditures in the last period of time, about buying apartments, so they need to be compensated in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5903	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5904	It was really hard to capture a logical continent because of intertwined responsibilities between the agency and the ministry, but we noticed one illogicality. Namely, Article 6 states that the Agency shall issue authorisations for the marketing of medicinal products and medical medicinal products, and Article 41 says: "The authorisation referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall cease to apply even if the Agency determines:... etc. So here's the illogicalness that the agency, which we are contesting as such with our amendments, but anyway, we now have to comment on what the government predicted, so the agency is issuing permits, but there's no right to withdraw those permits. In principle, I think it's logical that whoever has the right to issue a permit should have the right to withdraw the permit. It turns out that when the agency determines the reasons for the suspension of the permit, it will propose to the minister to make a decision on the withdrawal of the drugs. On the other hand, we are also wondering how the agency can determine the actual situation, when inspection affairs are left in the minister's command. If the Agency were to decide on the withdrawal of the medicinal product from use, then we would also solve the two-stage problem of the administrative procedure. Yesterday I asked the minister a question, and I was wondering if the minister was familiar with the fact that in our use and unregistered diagnostic means, above all, I was thinking about the reagents used in transfusiology. The minister, if I have noticed correctly, when addressing the MPs, was about to respond first to my remarks and said, "The remark that unregistered diagnostic means are in use, of course, that's why this law is needed." It turns out that under the current law, unregistered diagnostics are allowed to be used, and it is only a prerequisite for the adoption of this law to get in the way. That's not true! Of course, the current legislation prohibits the use of unregistered medicines and medical remedies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5905	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5906	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm reporting that there's just a little bit more to be explained here. These are the key members in which it is seen, when one inconsistencies and inconsistencies are governed by the law, what all this can lead to. According to the SRS concept, we were talking about the drug administration and medical resources, which would also have a complete inspection. We are told that the Administrative Procedure Act does not allow the removal from the inspection service administration. We absolutely respect it and understand it, and this concept of ours is exactly what we respect. Now, look, there's talk of what the agency is doing, how they're going to withdraw the drug license and then say, "if the Agency finds out:"... So, the agency determines, I'm just distracting you,... whether the medicinal product complies with the requirements of the quality specification, whether it is safe or effective in the prescribed conditions of use, whether the medicinal product does not comply with the conditions laid down in its marketing authorisation. "The Agency finds" - but how? Only inspection can be established. He can't go back, he can't look at the cards, he can't call his grandmother a doorman, and then he can confirm. You've introduced this member the possibility that the agency has an inspection as well. You're hiding it, though, not showing it taxively in certain members of this law. Explain to me, Mr. Minister, how will the agency withdraw, on what grounds will she withdraw this?- I'm sorry. What kind of inspection will tell them that what's packed doesn't match what's been declared?- I'm sorry. Just explain it to me. When one such galamatias is made, it's no wonder, it's written by strangers, our experts thrown into the shadows, our lawyers help. When that compound is made, our lawyers and so on. "experate" comes up with this "galimatias and chaos." We'll point you to that. As long as we've fallen, there's evidence that this document where our Ministry can't even count doctors and staff in Serbia, but Mr. David Cochrane has to come and put together how many employees there are in this country and say what he's doing with these, whether he's exorcising or not. There are no Serbian minds and experts, and "biros" full of lawyers, full of economists. We have two experts from the World Health Organization, who are alive and who are beating up in public. We have a life-long expert on Mr. Jakovljevic; the end, they know nothing. I don't think that's good. We will once again point to the main inconsistencies of this law and the violation of the European Union's standards. It is unfortunate that the Radical Party of Serbia must defend the money of European citizens, who are spent in vain here on wildly imagined projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5907	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5908	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by commenting on article 41 and this amendment, I'd actually like to put him in touch with article 36 and ask for an explanation, because I'm not professional enough, but I'm professional enough that I don't understand something. Namely, a marketing authorisation shall be issued for five years, as if it were a radio or TV broadcasting permit. This is Article 36. Even in paragraphs 7 or 8, it does not matter, there is a possibility to issue a marketing authorisation for "export only", does not say whether or not there is a general provision that a marketing authorisation is valid for five years. In Article 41, it is taxed when all ceases to be valid and the first basis is that the period on which the licence has been issued has expired. Why is this law introducing a time-limiting authorisation for placing the drug on the market? If the cure meets all the conditions prescribed by law and is granted approval to be placed on the market, what is the reason that in five years, but back a few months, I think it's 90 days before the permit expires, to re-convert anyone who has a license, what is the reason to force him for a medicine that has been in use for five years, which is not disputed under Article 41 at any point, what is the reason that this drug has to have a marketing authorisation? Is that bureaucracy? In order for someone to have something to do, to write requests, someone to examine them, to print them, to sort them out, to deliver them to a competent person, all with a tax most likely. Why once a permit has been issued does not apply until there is a reason to withdraw the permit. Not until the licence expires. Well, you now have medicines that I, as a child, have been treated. Are there any medications like that? There is!- Why is it that every five years, if this drug is fully proven in practice and no one has any objections under Article 41? Why are you introducing this? No product in Serbia has a deadline for which a marketing authorisation has been granted, except for the cure, now. There is no product in Serbia whose traffic is armed to ensure that the manufacturer or anyone who puts it on the market has to contact the agency again in order for the agency to have something to do. The question is, if everyone registers with the agency now, by the end of the year, and all drugs are registered, then what will the agency do afterwards. There isn't a pharmaceutical industry that's so hyper-production that they're taking drugs off the tape. These are trials that last 15-20 years. And it's almost impossible for our pharmaceutical industry to go into the making of a drug, in which they have already moved so far in the West that they will arrive here before us to offer it to the market, with a permit already issued in the European Union. You're playing European Union here. Now Serbia is the European Union, so all we can do is write down what the European Union says and maybe they'll see us. He won't! You can write whatever you want. You Belgrade can call Brussels, if you want, but it won't be in the European Union. Not as long as we're poor, but with us in Serbia, a frog when he sees the horse weave she lifts her leg just in case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5909	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here is the word of the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5910	On the occasion of this amendment, I just want to clarify - that you do not misread the MP Micovic. And I had a dilemma when I was reading the amendment and then I realized that maybe the government shouldn't have just sorely responded to that amendment, but that it could have partially changed the article so that everything was clear. Because what MP Micovic is asking for, the government says it is already in Article 47. But it was supposed to be a little clearer. Namely, it is about establishing criteria for the formation of drug prices and the determination of the price of medicines. In the first position, the government taxed - it turns out only for medicinal products for human use. In the second position, she singled out, because there will be a ministry responsible for veterinary affairs, prices for veterinary medicines, and she did not again write that she would set criteria for forming prices for veterinary drugs, so it turns out it was undefined, which was what MP Micovic tried to define. This amendment was to be accepted. A member wouldn't be reregulated. This leaves him under-regulatoryly regulated. He could only have one attitude. If after the word "health affairs" had been added "and the medicines used exclusively in veterinary medicine and the minister responsible for veterinary affairs" and everything would have been clear. So this is how we got two positions -- that's two branches of drug production. I think that the government should accept this amendment because it does not say that the amendment is not good, but says that it already meant to that member what the MP proposes with its amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5911	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Health and Family Committee proposes that this amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 51 which reads as follows: "Article 51, paragraph 1 after point 5), adds a new point 6) which reads: to mental patients without the consent of the guardians". It is a clinical trial that can be conducted by a member of 51st says: "A clinical trial of medicines must not be carried out: 1) healthy persons up to 18 years of age; 2) healthy pregnant women and breast-feeding women; (3) persons who are placed in institutions of social protection; (4) persons who are placed in medical institutions or institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, according to the decision of judicial authorities; and 5) persons who, by coercion or other means of action, may influence the granting of consent to participate in a clinical trial and free consent to participate in a clinical trial". So, point 6 is added, which I consider to be, for human reasons, and the desire to protect patients who at some point in their life can get into situations that are not able to properly judge and that they are not critical for just one part of their life. An explanation which leaves the possibility of doing clinical studies on mental patients, without consent being given, as I have stated in the amendment - "ageholders", is this:The International Classification of Diseases, by them, does not know the term "spiritual patient", but the term "spiritual disorder" and "demeanor disorder", which are classified in dozens of specific diseases. Gentlemen, you're not working on the International Disease Classification. You're working on people. And it's not about the disease. It's about the patient. It's about a patient, who you say you don't accept because, if you accept the amendment, it's about prejudicing the obligation to always appoint a guardian for these persons, which is contrary to the existing legal system. That's not true. Please, these people find themselves in a shorter period of time in such a position, and they also need some easier "spiritual disorders" that they spend a month or shorter, and then leave the hospital, they don't need a guardian, they come back to life. The follow-up to the explanation that you do not want these people to be protected is the following - the bill stipulates that, for those who have no business ability, consent for a clinical trial is given by a parent or guardian, which is completely protected and that category of persons who fall into mental disorders, and who, due to this condition, are deprived of their business ability. It's not about these people. The amendment didn't mean those people whose business ability was taken away. It's about people who go back to work after therapy and who only need a guardian in a period of time while they're in therapy and treatment. After that, these people are fully involved in society. That's where you switched the thesis. In addition, it goes on to explain why such an amendment, which I consider highly humane, does not accept, and we as a society and this assembly have to take great care of these people, because ultimately, we are bound by the European Union directives, you say, "It is prescribed that the Agency can always suspend or ban clinical trials of medicines, if it finds that there has been irregularities in the conduct of the same, i.e. infringing the safety and safety of the person." Don't let it be done, then let's wait for the agency to remember it wasn't supposed to be done. That won't explain it well in public. By accepting the above-mentioned amendment from clinical trials, medicinal products for mental disorder would be excluded. That's not true. So you're saying that now we don't want there to be checks and tests on some medications, new ones that can help these people. That's not true! We just want to sort it out systemically, to protect these people, but to leave the possibility to those, yes, while they are in that situation, while they are in some transient disorder of their incriminatingness and insufficient reasoning about the possibility of accepting or not accepting something offered in terms of questioning, there are people who can, by their signature, be their guardians for that period and give consent. I think that this is an amendment that should be accepted, in any case, because it is deeply human, nothing spoils in a clinical trial, does not reduce the possibility of finding new drugs, but only a little bit of editing and protecting some people who, in some lifetime, can come into a situation of their own incriminating.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5913	A health minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5914	Ladies and gentlemen, the intention of this amendment is extremely positive and human. I am fully in agreement with Mr. MP here, however, not necessary and not necessary because everything is regulated by the regulations, this is what: Article 50(2). The draft law provides that for persons who do not have a business capacity, consent for clinical trials is granted by a parent or guardian, which is fully protected and this category of persons who fall into mental illness, who are temporarily or permanently deprived of their business ability. The term "spiritual patient" actually has no professional character and precision. There's a "spiritual patient" in a coloroquial sense and in general but there's a "spiritual disorder," there's a "behavior disorder." A precedent like this wouldn't be good, because it's not accurate. It is very clear in which cases a custody procedure is envisaged for these persons, as provided for in another law and implemented before the competent authority. In any case, the law and provisions which are already provided for, therefore, Article 50(2) fully protects the safety and interest of the subjects, especially those who have no ability, or who suffer from "spiritual disorders" set up by the custodian. That's why this amendment isn't necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5915	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has a word, then Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am partially satisfied with the minister's explanation, but I am not satisfied with the appearance of Article 51. - Even by binding it to a 50th member, there are many misunderstandings left. One of the concerns is that the minister points us to "mental disturbances" and "behavior disturbances", so he says the faces, the faces that have "a behavioral disorder" and do not have a guardian. Anyone who doesn't have a guardian can be a guardian, so you can get into a situation where someone who has "a behavioral disorder" as a guardian issues permission to conduct a clinical trial of a drug on a man who doesn't have a business ability. Article 51(1) - clinical studies of medicinal products should not be carried out on healthy persons for up to 18 years of life. What if a child up to the age of 18 is sick? What is the difference, do you now claim that there are so many risks in clinical trials that you must not subject a healthy face to a clinical trial completely under the control of the state. Is it just because it's healthy, so you can't taste the cure on it? Or what if a child who's sick has a parent's demented behavior and he issues consent to the drug being questioned on a child who's sick? I don't understand point 4 - a clinical trial of drugs should not be conducted on persons placed in medical institutions or in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, following a decision by the judicial authorities. The sentence is unclear, but I interpret it so that it must not be examined on persons who have been placed by the judicial authorities in a medical institution or in a sanctioning office. I can't, I don't think it's possible for the motionor to think that, after the decision of the judicial authorities, no one should be subject to a clinical trial. If this is my first interpretation, so why can't the persons who are being executed in institutions for the execution of prison sentences, criminal sanctions, be able to do business, why can't they undergo a clinical trial of a drug? If he wants to, if that way he can make some income for the family he left without income by committing some crime, he is placed in an institution, there his wife and children are starving, why can't he, with his consent without the torture of Article 50, without the pressure, without a decision by the judicial authority alone, why can't he submit to an examination of a drug. If he's sick, then he's in a prison hospital, why can't he participate in a drug study that's going to be used later? He's a man, he's done some work. You know how many criminal arrests you go to prison for, even for a felony, you can go to jail. Why would that keep him from taking part in something without which the medicine can't go forward? Why would we turn it off? We've allowed these people to vote on who's going to be an MP, who's going to be president of the state, and we're not letting them participate in the creation of a cure that can save lives. Did they lose the rights of a citizen, does it say in any verdict in which someone is sent to support a prison sentence, does it say that he's losing some of his right? You're depriving him of his rights here. If it's a voluntary clinical trial, it's not an obligation, it's the right one. A Serbian citizen has the right to undergo a clinical trial of drugs, although he is in prison, even though he is in a prison hospital. I think this is a kind of discrimination, I don't know why it came to that. The explanation for this amendment seems to me to be the longest of all reasons, because the subject is purely professional and caused by the word "spiritual patient". In our people, we know what a "spiritual sick person" is. Maybe you in medicine still don't know exactly. Then you should clear it up for each other, give us the classification. We make laws here, and when we make laws, we want to know who they can relate to and who they can't. Whosoever will be responsible for them, who will not. In what state is it that it depends not on how an expert will be paid, how he will be satisfied that day to assess someone's ability. I suggest that, at least by accepting this amendment, you correct one part of the shortcomings that a member of the law has.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5917	It's about the amendment of the People's MP, Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5918	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have seen what Mr Nikolic has pointed to and I think that this observation really shows the power of the National Assembly and the power of the citizens representing our citizenship. Especially since Mr Nikolic is a special person who certainly by his will, erudicity and his political maturity bounces far away in this parliament and in our political environment. Let me get this straight, Mr. Minister, thing with this. You very persistent, stubbornly, stand behind your views. I had to go out because the Committee considered this acceptable, most of the members of the doctor sitting on that committee. You are our top medical expert, no one slows you down, but don't just defend your position. I'll tell you what it is. What I said, honestly, I said, don't break it, stick to the law. Please interpret our laws. You said-- you said article 50 allows a mental patient to be protected, disables. There are infectious psychosiss, manic depressions. How many depressed patients are working and not deprived of their abilities? One of the kicks in psychiatry is that these people have to be integrated into a collective. They have to work. These people with depressed psychosis work in their jobs, have families and are no longer deprived of their civil rights. These people need protection. Maybe you'll tell me - how? Mr. Minister, "an adjective." These are your standards of Europe that Europe is looking for for preclinical questioning. You have to ask him -- if he had a family of mental patients, if he was suffering from something himself, and then you're going to turn him off and protect him. That's what made us react here with an amendment, and you're not hard-core about your attitudes that are medically unfounded.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5919	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5920	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the opportunity to talk again about this area. Clinical drug studies are a complicated area that involves defining concepts. There are several phases of a clinical trial and there are a number of members of this law that deal with it and which implies not only this matter concerning this one member and the suggestion to introduce an amendment or not to be introduced, but the whole procedure. The procedure is very closely aligned with internationally accepted common views that the rights of the sick person are particularly protected. We are making every effort and I can tell you that in the last year, the Republic Expert Commission for Mental Health has a draft law on the protection of the rights of mentally ill persons after a year's work. Such a law has 21 countries in the world and you will be able to consider in this House the draft of this law. It's just the last few weeks in the course of our campaign called - the united color of the soul, anti-stigmatization, against the marking of mentally ill people. I'd like it to be perfectly clear, and I'm glad that in this high house, a "anamnesis" was mentioned, a conversation, a relationship with a patient who should be returned to every healthcare worker. In the protection of patients' rights, this ministry and this team, this government, have done more than many before, insisting on the quality that involves a number of moves, and one of them is the obligation of ethical committees in health institutions that have been conducted in recent months. So, with all due respect to fully positive intentions and good energy, I have to say that all good wishes are already in this law. That is why we did not agree with the amendment, and that is clear to a large majority of the members of the Health and Family Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5921	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is by MP Branislav Blazic, a replica, a misread by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5922	It's not well interpreted. In an explanation that he does not accept this amendment, the minister called for Article 50(2), which reads: "For those who do not have a business capacity", and has repeatedly insisted on it, persons who do not have a business capacity. This isn't about those faces. It's about people who have business skills, but temporarily, because of their condition, they're in treatment. After that treatment, they return to their jobs and normally return to society. So this position 2 does not justify the refusal of the amendment. It's not about those people who have guardians uninterrupted, it's about people who, in some part of their life alone, can come into a state of incrition, indiscretion, and unconsciousness of the one who accepts or refuses the proposed interrogation on them of a new drug. There's the point, and it's just precise about these people, not what's already in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5923	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the health minister said at the end of his presentation earlier that most members voted against the Health Committee, which is not true at all. Most committee members voted in favour of this amendment. However, I know that the minister has a constant tendency to schedule some secret committees, although he is not competent to schedule these committees and has happened many times - when decisions on blood transfusions and transformation of this service were as it is, and when the minister was not satisfied with the conclusions that we unanimously made on the Health Committee, then he tried to schedule a new session of the Health Committee where only members of the position were present. Probably on some secret committee of these decisions made by the minister earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5925	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle, I made a point that this law insufficiently regulates the procedure for clinical testing of veterinary medicinal products and that most members given refer to clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, and that only two or three members, to some extent, have touched the conditions and regulations of the clinical investigation of veterinary medicinal products. In this regard, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56, which says that persons subject to a clinical trial must be fully informed of the purpose, nature, procedure and possible risks of testing, in an understandable manner and in writing. My amendment refers to the fact that in this article, the word "persons subject to clinical trials" should be added to "and owners of animals whose animals are used for clinical testing of veterinary medicinal products". They must also be fully informed of the purpose, nature, procedure and possible risks of testing, in which they certainly understand the way. I believe that this amendment has a basis in a clinical trial of veterinary medicinal products, no matter what kind of animal they can be carried out on. During the course of the clinical trials, there may be a need for a forced slaughter, that a simple injury to an animal, a broken leg, or another process occurred, and that the animal could be economically exploited. One who conducts clinical trials or owner of animals, whether it is a farm, a private person or a private animal owner, should know, in the event of the need for an emergency slaughter or the sale of certain animal products, such as milk, whether the products of which a clinical examination of a medicinal product can be sold freely on the market or if there is a ban on the duration of a clinical trial of that medicinal product - that these and such products are placed on the market or, for example, the meat of a clinically slaughtered animal to be used for human consumption or for export to the market. In this regard, I felt that there was a basis for those whose animals are used for clinical testing to be closely informed about the purpose and manner of this clinical trial. on the possible consequences of animal health, but also on the quality of meat and other animal products that can be used by these animals. I hope there's a reason to accept this. I don't understand, since I don't have the explanation the government gave, what was the reason not to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5927	The amendment is spoken of by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5928	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is possible and understandable that many people in Serbia are not in the same position, both animals and people, and I understand that. However, such a mistake must not be missed by those who write the law. The amendment should be accepted because of hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who have an animal, because of hundreds of citizens whose animals will be subjected to questioning. Not to inform you that there are people whose animals are the only members of the family, especially the old people who rely on them and to whom they mean everything in life. Old people without an heir, have a dog or a cat that means everything to them in life and are not in the same position animal owners who are being questioned and persons on whom or their guardians need to be examined and then the problem is from another aspect, from a risk aspect.This call in the explanation of the refusal of amendments to Article 51(4) is not enough, so that you do not single out Article 56(1), you would not single out the persons on whom a clinical trial is conducted, then you would not have to say that they have to be told what it is and what the purpose is, what are the risks. You could say Article 51(3) was regulated by the minister responsible for health affairs. But no, you have correctly estimated that further legislation is necessary to regulate this and Article 56 of Article 1 is excellent for persons who are being tested, but lack animal care. So you can tell the person what it is or his guardian, and you can't tell the animal, I suppose, ministers, but you can tell the animal owner in an understandable way, because it's not enough that the minister in charge of veterinary work under Article 51(4) is closer to prescribing the conditions, it's not enough. What if he does not prescribe that he must be familiar, is not bound by the law that the animal owner is aware of the risks, the purpose of the examination, the procedure, the way in which he examines, as he obliges the member of the 56th Minister of Health Affairs. By accepting this amendment, you would only be obliged by the Minister responsible for veterinary matters, therefore, to make sure that any approval of the examination takes care that the owner of the animal is aware of the purpose, manner, reasons and risks, and this carries the examination. I think there's a full excuse for the MPs if she didn't want the government to accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5929	The word has a health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5930	In Article 51(4) of the Law, the Minister responsible for veterinary matters prescribes conditions for clinical trials of medicinal products that are exclusively in veterinary medicine and thus respects the specificity of the clinical investigation of veterinary medicinal products, and Article 55(3) gives one provision of very important, therefore, that - veterinary medicinal products are being tested in accordance with the principles of veterinary ethics and animal protection. I think that's enough to explain the government and it's unnecessary to add an amendment to such clear provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5931	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5932	Mr. Minister, you are avoiding my discussion and speaking in a completely different way, knowingly running away from it and insulting the dignity of the National Assembly, and insulting me as the man who explained this amendment. I've read all of it, Minister, it's all written for both faces and animals, for animal owners, except for the fact that for persons additionally, Article 56, you've prescribed that they should be notified, and nowhere in the law does it say that animal owners have to be informed. You are calling for Article 55 paragraph 3 and Article 55 paragraph 2 states that this is the same for medicines and human medicine. Everything you point us to here in the wind, it's already regulated in human medicine, and yet the person under examination has to be notified. I agree, by the principles you have introduced a capital letter "D" for good practice, for good, for good, you invented the Wolf, all of you here can, most of the MPs, do a lot of things. But don't explain to me now what we've all read, we've been reading this law for a year and a half like you for too long. Everything you warn about now exists, and it exists especially for human medicine, especially for veterinary purposes, and only for veterinary purposes, there is no such thing as Article 56 paragraph 1 provided for human medicine and for "it" I warn. Don't say there are criminal provisions now, and I know the same thing. Whether animal owners should be informed or not, say no, then we know what kind of minister we have. I think you should, hundreds of thousands of people have animals, maybe you don't have an animal, and neither do I, but I totally understand people who have animals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5933	The word has a health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5934	It is much more important for veterinary medicinal products to be examined in accordance with the principles of veterinary ethics and animal protection, as stated in Article 55(3), rather than specify the ownership relationship, since the Minister responsible for veterinary matters has been instructed to prescribe closer methods of clinical testing in accordance with veterinary ethics and animal protection. Of course, owners should be informed, but there are animals that do not have owners, which can also be included in clinical trials and are much more important for them to be protected and to be conducted according to the Good Veterinary Practice procedures. I hope I've made that clear enough why the government has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5935	MP Zoran Mašić, can you tell me the basis for the announcement? Misreading, replication, the presentation of the minister, therefore, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indisputable that what the Minister said was important to respect the principles of veterinary ethics and animal protection and it would be good, but the purpose of the amendment I made to Article 56 is, and I think I was clear enough when I first explained, that the owners of the animals under examination should be informed of the possible consequences and impacts, both on their health and on the products. We keep animals because of the products we use in our diet - if you take an example of a drug being tested on cows of milk used for human consumption, do you think it is not necessary for the owner of an animal, therefore, whose cows are used for the clinical examination of the medicine to be informed in writing that this milk that is milk that is milk milk from these animals, which are subjected to a clinical trial, should not be placed on the market, because it contains the residuals of this medicine. I don't know, really, you're medically educated, so it has nothing to do with ethics, because ethics implies that animals are not abused, that the cure is given in the right way, that the welfare is respected. The other thing I insist on and why I'm explaining this is that, just the owners of the animals if there's a need for a forced slaughter, because of a leg injury, the drugs being tested on that animal remain for a while. For example, Karenca is a month and a month after the end of the clinical trial, the owner of that animal where the withdrawal is longer than the expiry of that clinical trial should know that these animals cannot be sold for slaughter for another month or two days, or that these animal products or eggs or milk cannot be placed on the market. This is the purpose of my amendment and the apparition, and I don't see what this member can fundamentally change by saying that animal owners have to be particularly informed, therefore, that in a clinical trial there may be consequences of this or that kind, so this has nothing to do with what you insist on in Article 55(3). This means that veterinary ethics is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5937	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just say the article you're advertising, since last time you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5938	Don't let me know what I'm supposed to do. I know it better than you, and I can do it better and more democraticly than you, or at least let me get to the pay phone, so warn me. Under Article 94(1), you are obliged to interrupt the session whenever you determine that there is no quorum to work with. Now, I warn you that you do not respect that provision of the Rules of Procedure and that it is not enough that you do not like the MPs of the SRS! Set the quorum, so if there's a quorum, we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5939	Once I've determined the quorum, and we'll determine it immediately after your advertising, then we'll interrupt the work if there's no quorum. About whether I love someone here or not. I don't like or love anyone, so you shouldn't have that problem. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. Since the electronic system shows that there are 66 MPs in the O.R. and we don't have a quorum to work with, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. [[After break - 12.25]] Please determine the quorum before continuing. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 85 MPs are present in the O.R. The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (Paja Momchilov, from the city: You skip the amendment. Amendment to Article 57 has been skipped, has not been read. ) I am sorry, Mr. Momchilov, the minutes have been consulted, the amendment to Article 57 has been completed before the attempt to determine the quorum. We'll check together later. Are you reporting for article 66? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5940	Dear colleagues and colleagues, after the break we will continue. I know it's hard to work under these conditions, and I know that perhaps such a large number of amendments are a burden to all of us. But believe me, there are some amendments that we cannot not stand and defend. We have come to an amendment that is close to that key idea of leadership, which makes us constantly point to the illogical nature of this law. Namely, I'm going to quote Article 66, which says, "The application for a license to produce drugs is submitted to the competent ministry. The competent ministry within 90 days, from the date of receipt of a complete request for the authorisation of medicinal products if the conditions are met." It is further said that the competent ministry is asking the applicant to request the necessary information. It doesn't matter. Look at the answer we got to our amendment. We just said that instead of the Ministry stands "Government." If we start with your explanation that the agency is an expert and powerful institution, which is uniting the profession, which unites the administrative procedure, which is independent of the administration, how do you now give and delegate these rights to the competent ministry here? Why the department all of a sudden? When we gave our amendment and when we said the drug administration, we wanted to free the ministry so that it could deal with politics, by passing laws, to make it work better. This is the European Union's intensity. Your explanation, which you gave for this amendment, I ask the Minister to come out and say if what you gave us, you stand behind it, because it's completely illogical. You're telling us that this solution is a violation of the laws. You keep saying that, you keep using the truth. I'll read what you wrote: "Get a license to manufacture implies and carry out inspection surveillance over the production area. As the State Administration Act stipulates that inspection operations are exclusively in the jurisdiction of the State Authority, i.e. that they cannot be entrusted to other organisations, thus neither to the regulatory body for the field of medicines, inspection operations, or to the control of the production and transport of medicinal products are regulated. 101st and 104th." I ask you how we break the law when we delegate these duties to the medical department. Don't say false. Explain on the way, since you have legal experts, what is your regulatory body. There is no such term in our legislation. This is what your lawyers wrote you, so explain. Bad translation?- I'm sorry. You were on the show the other night, dealing with these uninvited children and prematurely born, and I could call it a lex praematuritas and preemporius. That's exactly what we're telling you. Not to abuse and not to go out another time for a pay phone, now explain the key thing: how is it allowed for the agency to grant clinical trials and follow-up clinical trials? How can this be given without inspection? How did you allow the agency, how can you violate the Administrative Procedure Act, and how have you allowed the marketing authorisation of the medicinal product, when inspection supervision is necessary, especially when you withdraw the medicine? Answer that at last. I know you just keep your mouth shut when you don't have an answer. You keep your mouth shut when several thousand unemployed doctors ask you to resolve their status. You are silent even when we mention that there is corruption, and last night you saw on TV that we are leading by corruption and that citizens in the polls are assessing us, or that one third of the citizens surveyed said they had to pay the bribe. Mr. Minister, please, let us speed up this debate, come out and tell the MPs of the SRS that these arguments, as you interpret them, stand or do not stand. Let's get to the bottom of this. If you do not answer, we will continue to insist on this - our citizens and the public to point out all the faults of this law, and this is not a good law at this time or for our citizens or for our pharmaceutical industry. You've been talking, it's gonna be okay - the pharmaceutical industry. Which one? You sold the grain factory to that dubious type from Macedonia, sold the woodworking factory to an Albanian lobby. "Gallenika," we heard, she lost at international arbitration and has to pay $500 million. Is that true? Let us know about it, too. What's the profit of our pharmaceutical industry you're talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5941	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ilic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5942	Ladies and gentlemen, in amendment 56 to article 70. The bill proposes that, in fact, for the transport of drugs in the sense of this member, a qualified pharmacist is responsible for the overall production and handling of medicines in the pharmacy. We believe that the amendment should not be accepted in view of the fact that the adoption of the proposed amendment, at this point, would endanger a large number of graduates in these pharmacies, is the government's position - in the transitional period, until full compliance with European Union rules on veterinary matters, we can expect after the first active and quality moves in the Ministry of Agriculture, that by the end of the year we will have a set of laws from this area, so, among other things, the veterinary law. Until then, it is comprehensive to give graduate veterinarians the opportunity to handle medicinal products used exclusively in veterinary medicine, so that existing graduate veterinarians are not deprived of the right to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5943	Here's a word from MP Goran Ilic, who submitted the amendment to Article 70.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I have proposed an amendment that you have in the text in front of you, which, for the transport of medicines, comes down to a small liability to a qualified pharmacist, for the whole production and handling of medicines in the pharmacy. This is not disputed by experts, so both lawyers and experts in this area, because certainly pharmacists must be responsible for this area, since it is strictly professional. Given that the application of this amendment, at this time, would jeopardise the activity of a large number of veterinarians, (so the argument is that about 300 veterinarians would lose their jobs) of the DSS in accordance with its principles, that the organisation of the country must be implemented, but at a minimum price to be paid by citizens, and given that this amendment would put the jobs of a large number of veterinarians at risk, we decided that this amendment, in this transitional period, we would withdraw and that during the period of harmonisation, the conditions for this amendment to take over pharmaceuticals in the whole area. Therefore, it is in the interest of citizens, especially veterinarians, who would be affected by this amendment, that he withdraws and the DSS withdraws him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5945	Thank you, it is clear that the amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Dobrica Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5946	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS has submitted more amendments to this bill. In the work of the Committee on Health and Family, on which we participated, we accepted a series of arguments, explanations and arguments to withdraw most of the amendments offered to this law. About this, however, we have good reason to try to defend it and offer the Assembly to accept it. He fully refers to the care of patients, according to whom, within the meaning of this law, it is necessary, especially when it comes to this member who speaks of so-called. Orphan medications, medicines that are rarely used, and therefore, of course, they rarely get them. We could say it's a special case of total categories and medical resources. In this sense, the provision to determine one year’s needs, or in some other way qualify for the planning of the needs for these medicines, poses a threat to the achievement of the necessary needs for the treatment of these patients, as far as these medicines are concerned. Therefore, the proposal for this amendment would ensure that the need to treat these patients is seen, which means ad hoc occurrences of such patients and the need for such medications. I think it remains quite clear that it is not to be determined, as the bill says, one-year and no six-month or two-year need and so on, means, in this sense planning, but that it should be determined according to the needs of these medicines, for these particular patients. I repeat that this is a group of medicines called orfan medicines in practice and in this regard, since it is a specific category, I insist, or I draw your attention to this amendment, for these reasons, and I ask you to vote for this amendment to pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5947	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Živodarka Dacin, submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82 because it has been written extremely unprofessionally, in fact it does not know who should be involved in this area at all. The 82nd article reads "The medicines that have expired the time limit of importance or established the malfunction in respect of their prescribed quality and other medicines for which traffic is prohibited must be destroyed". In the second position of the member, it is said, "The way to destroy the medications of the 1st article is prescribed by the minister responsible for health affairs". My amendment reads, in Article 82(2), the words "health business" are replaced by the words "science and protection of the environment". Gentlemen dear, the medications that have expired, which are not used, belong to a group of so-called. Dangerous waste. The regulation of how to destroy hazardous waste, its deposit or in any way shelter falls within the jurisdiction of the Ministry. Now it's not the Ministry, it's the science and environmental protection sector. The way it is destroyed, monitored, measurement of emissions, filters, furnaces, any way foreseen by the national strategy on the destruction of hazardous waste. We are now in the adoption of such an act, which should also provide for a financial aspect. Let's see if it's cheaper to export such waste abroad, where it's going to be burned or cheaper to make plants here in this country that will destroy any hazardous waste and pharmaceutical waste. This isn't naive at all. It's about something that needs to be explained who's doing what in this country, but it's not naive in that sense, which we have a large amount of hazardous waste, as far as medicines that have passed the deadline of use are concerned. We received this in particular as humanitarian aid from Europe, after the bombing. To show their humanity, many European countries have sent drugs through some humanitarian organisations to help this country. Most of these drugs have been past the deadline of use. Or many were half of the boxes spent, and several tablets are in the box present. As time went by, all these drugs passed the deadline of use. They all represent ballast today. Europe has thus freed itself from its dangerous pharmaceutical waste. We've got tons and tons of drugs like that in hospitals today, so people don't know what to do and the question isn't naive at all. Therefore, it sucks to suffer that the Minister of Health determines how to destroy dangerous waste, nor does he need to know it, nor does he know it. You know who in this country should do it. For the sake of clarity to define this correctly, I want that amendment to be adopted, but this sentence in the explanation of the previous article in which it is said – that the way in which the medicinal products have expired has expired or that the correctness of their prescribed quality is defined by the regulation of the identification of these medicinal products, the conduct of certain documentation, etc., is about destruction. When you use that term, then it's a dangerous waste and it's about destroying dangerous waste. It can be done by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and no one else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5949	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 84th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5950	We agreed that the administration, administrative inspection work and submitted this amendment was a logical consequence of the amendments that had been submitted. Of course the government answered us with the same easy answer "we do not accept because it does not fit our concept", simply - we also refused the amendment to Article 1 and this is a waste. Which, in a formal-logical sense, could be accepted. If it wasn't just a fundamental remark right now, that she's pulling deeper conventions out of the jurisdiction of the assumed agency or future almost adopted agency, I'm going to explain the amendment to why we've submitted, and by order of opinion. In the second position - national pharmacopoeia and highway formulas of medicines etc. Assembled by the Minister. Let's start with having a national pharmacopoeia. It is a farm in Yugoslavia issued by the Federal Institute of Protection, Promotion and Health. When they were building a new state, they also abolished this very important institution, which had very large current and future legal projects and problems solved very well at the level of both republics. We now have in Yugoslavia, I guess we'll accept this by initiative, if it were a Serbian pharmacopoeia, and the Montenegrins will probably not make someone else accept it, too. Whether the minister will determine that this Yugoslav becomes a Serbian pharmacopoeia or if they want to change it, and I don't believe that the money has arrived in Europe, it is possible that they have and are paying again a busy, very expensive job. Why are we getting the agency back in touch with this? How was this done? By launching a whole series of federal institutions, the Ministry, the government, the Federal Institute of Protection, health improvement by over a hundred pharmacists from the Faculty of Pharmacy of Other and Similar Institutions. Let's say from Vinci, what you're predicting to end, the Department of Pharmacy of the Republic of Serbia, while they wrote, copied, translated, adapted to our needs. It is the second position that does not show the authority that the minister will do so on a proposal from the agency, how the agency will propose what. The administrative work could suggest that such a thing be translated, and when it is done, which the agency does, that all 120 members do so alone, they will not be able to do so. The National Control Laboratory, which we wish was not in the project, instead of it we suggest that it contains an existing solution, to remain the Office of Pharmacy of the Republic of Serbia, to be outside the reach of the minister, beyond the reach of the direct control of the people involved in the agency, which, in one way or another, is chosen by the Minister and the Government, which is always what it is, which always gives a tendency to one of its segments to preferably influence the choice, might work more freely, perhaps not allow the examination of the cure when necessary. We're going back to the story of what was said. How that institution itself, even if it stays that way, will determine when it is an organ of a national control laboratory, but it will also make some team, to determine when it is necessary, or to tell the inspector or to report people from clinical trials, something is wrong with the drug, a little vague, which would be more logically interpreted again, and wouldn't even stand in this proposal that we would have suggested. Adequate measures on the facts of the drugs, now the agency will propose to withdraw the medicine on a proposal from the minister, the minister will actually suspend the administration of drugs, but it is now a small game. The Agency approves that the medicinal product should be placed on the market, and the minister will, on a proposal from the Agency, prevent the further marketing of the medicinal product for which it has been established on this or on the basis that it does not meet the conditions for use. It's one unnecessary transfer of power from one to another. Make it consistent. If the agency gives permission, if the inspectors on the ground or otherwise during the interrogation or thirdly determine that the cure is wrong, that it must be withdrawn, let the person who granted the permit withdraw. It's perfectly logical if someone betrays confidence both legally logically and legally sustainablely, that's what they pull. What we would now give to the ministry's jurisdiction, gets some more weight or more importance gets the minister, and besides, everyone's here. I guess I'm still in a minute. The fact is that now with this proposal, the national control laboratory will be represented as something that was also the Department of Pharmacy, so it will move into new rooms, transfer its equipment, transfer its money - and will it take all its employees? The question is, will all have enough expert exams, as foreseen under the Law on Labour in the Authorities of the Administration. If someone's gonna lose their job with that attempt, we still can't tell. The legislator, the legislator, has given such a vague association that there will be those who will be out of work. This way, according to our proposal, this institution would remain independent, without strict supervision of both the minister and the people of the agency, where interests can often be intertwined to benefit from one, the other or third parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5951	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ilic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment that is foreseen at point 2) to a new indent that says that the quality of each batch of imported medicine will be controlled. With this, the DSS wanted to ensure maximum protection of Serbian citizens. That's what we wanted to be explicitly stated in the law. The same member exists in the Croatian law on the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which existed in Slovenia until its association with the EU. We believe that its existence, i.e. incorporation in the text of the law, is necessary because in this way, as I said, it would be maximum protection for the citizens of Serbia. In discussions with representatives of parliamentary groups, I have recognised the agreement with this amendment and the DSS remains with it. We believe that our association in the European Union needs to be controlled by every series of imported drugs, because there are different producers. Some series can change their quality even after the approvals which are properly established for the marketing on our market and therefore we believe that this amendment will improve.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5953	The word is made by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5954	Ladies and gentlemen, the law is otherwise defined, especially by sublaw, the obligation to examine every imported drug series. This is foreseen by the legal acts very precisely. After an extensive debate that could be heard these days in the Assembly, I understand that in this transition time there is increased caution from drugs, from medical means, and that we need to increase maximum protection, so on behalf of the Government, I want to say that we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5955	The amendment has been accepted. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. It is not enough when the Government accepts the amendment, in case the parent committee, which in this case has not accepted it, in which case the amendment is not automatically accepted. So he's being discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5956	Since counterpart Blazic gave the same amendment to this article, this is one of the key members of this law that has led to an unequal position for our pharmaceutical industry and on the other hand the security of our citizens. The World Health Organization estimates that at this point about 8% of all medicines on the world market are fake drugs. It therefore requires the 1988 Resolution, number 41/16, that all Member States are obliged to fight false medicines. Of course, if you're looking at one survey of the World Health Organization in 2000, then you'll have that most of all registered fake drugs, those without an active substance 30%, with insufficient drug concentration 20%, new ingredient, incorrect 21%, poorly packaged 15%, and other problems are also found in the second percent. It's one big danger to the citizens of the whole world, to the bad drugs and to the fake drugs. Each country defends itself with its own strong legislation. As a result, all countries of Europe and the world, which have a regulated system, are not currently releasing a regulation that is related to medicines outside the state administration. It's true and it's a fact. It's the intensity of us Serbian radicals, why we've been going out and talking all this time. Today, the U.S. has 10 large lipotor processes, with epogen, with serosine, with neupogene, with somatotropine, huge sums at stake, court proceedings and large companies that were signed behind these drugs had false drugs and there are large processes. Small Serbia must be protected maximumly. All the countries around here are doing this. I thank my colleague Ilic for this explanation and Mr. Minister for finally accepting something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5957	I thank Mr. Momchilov, I thank you all, but I pray that in order to avoid confusion, I see that there was a reaction before the discussion, and that is why I have to explain it one more time. According to Article 145.The amendments submitted by the legislator and adopted by the relevant committees and by the Government, as well as amendments adopted by the legislator, the committee responsible and the Government, become an integral part of the bill proposal and are not particularly decided by the National Assembly. National Assembly, (paragraph 4.) in particular, it shall decide on any amendment proposed by the law, the committee responsible or the Government has not adopted. Since there is common agreement, in order for this amendment to become an integral part of the law, it is necessary that the Health and Family Committee accepts it before the voting day. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted the amendment to article 86. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5958	In order for our concept of this law to end, we had to submit appropriate amendments to all members where necessary. Article 86 also mentions a national control laboratory, and we do not want the Republic Pharmacy Office to be shut down because the bill provides for the Republic Pharmacy Office to take over the work of a national control laboratory as part of the Agency for Medicinal Products. A colleague named Pai Momchilov, who explained one of the amendments yesterday, drew attention to the fact that the Republic Pharmacy Office should not be limited only to the part of the agency that will carry out laboratory control of medicines because the Republic Pharmacy Office has other tasks, competences, above all in education, or professional training, or specialisation of relevant professional profiles. We do not understand whether these responsibilities of the Republic Institute will simply be shut down and whether any other institution, institution, will take over. As for the other proposed changes in this article, since an objectively national control laboratory will not be able to control every series of all types of medicines, it is stated here that it will exercise mandatory quality control for each batch of vaccines, serums, blood products. We have extended this to another group of particularly important and sensitive medicines. It's antibiotics, insulin, hormones, cytostatics, cardiotechnical glycosides, and narcoanalgesics. We also deleted the provisions, if necessary, and we don't want to leave one of these undefined formulations, so before the drug is placed on the market, we have to control every batch of drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5959	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 92 and 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. In the meantime, to inform you, a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Committee will be held at the session's break, if then there is a break, the National Assembly at 1400 hours, in the downstairs hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 92, where instead of the title above Article 92, the title is changed and the title is "unsolicited facts of medicines", and in Article 92, point 1 of the "Agency" is replaced by the words "National Centre for the Monitoring of Unsolicited Medicines and Medical Devices". In addition, the SRS amendment has defined that the position of the 2nd member, where instead of the word "the Agency", would stand for "the National Centre for the Monitoring of Unsolicited Actions of Medicines and Medical Resources", and the words "proposed to the competent ministry" to be deleted. The government's explanation for the refusal of the amendment states that it is not accepted, primarily because the agency should carry out these closer jobs and its organisational parts, and thus the job of monitoring unwanted effects of medicines, primarily monitoring through a national centre for monitoring unwanted actions. And that the definition of pharmacovigilance is set out in Article 20 point 15). The SRS amendment is precisely in this direction, first of all, it is in line with the previous amendments that we have submitted, and follows our basic idea that professional affairs are done in professional institutions, first of all, at the Centre for the Monitoring of Unsolicited Actions, which can be located in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. Because there is both quantity and quality of personnel, a high concentration of professional staff and doctors, and then all data from all over Serbia would just flow there and then the centre could work much easier. What we insist on is the use of foreign terms. We ask that there really be terms that are in our Serbian language, because in Croatian law, there were just a few words about it, there are Croatian terms and whatever the free translation of pharmacovigilance can read - the safety of medicines. We ask that it be exactly what we insist on, which is: unwanted facts of medication, although it is defined that pharmacovigilance is a process used to identify, monitor and react to new risk findings, and in relation to the use of drugs or their interactions with other manufacturers or substances. We are really trying to do this harmonisation with the European Union, that is, with the International Conference on Harmonization, because we are seeking to regulate for synthetic drugs and be identical in Japan, the United States, Europe. The fact is also that the monitoring of adverse drug reactions exists prior to marketing monitoring of these undesirable effects, i.e. adverse reactions and post-marketing activity, i.e. monitoring of these undesirable effects and each medicinal product has less or more. Regardless of our ambition towards the European Union, the 2001 Clinical Study Directive, which entered into force on 01.05. of the current year, introduces the obligation of a new system of reporting, monitoring and distribution of data on undesirable effects of medicines. This makes it much more appropriate for our law to have Serbian terms, because people who use medicines can be better equipped in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5961	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by the MP of the People's Parliament of Živodarka Dacin, in any case, makes sense and should be accepted, and on the other hand, it actually points to one problem in itself precisely about that debate, whether "age" or "government". I'll explain how. National MP Živodarka Dacin, in Article 92, behind Article 3, is added a new position 4 which reads: "The minister undertakes to provide equipment for the information systems of all health institutions that do not possess them". So it is about information systems that are extremely important and Article 92 mentions that the agency will do this out of interest for human health, of interest in monitoring the side effects of individual medicines, to monitor their useful facts, contraindications, and the explanation of why this amendment is rejected is the following. "The amendment is not accepted since the subject matter of this law is not the provision of financial resources, as well as the equipment necessary for the work of health institutions. The system of health institutions, their work, financing and equipment, is subject to the Health Protection Act." Now we come up with something that was the subject of the debate about how the finances stand when it comes to the independence of such an agency, who wins, and who loses, and even the the thesis of saying that the budget will be disbursed, because the funds will be needed for the work of the agency, the agency will provide for its self-financing, by collecting permits, etc. I can say something now, one of the directors of the Department of Pharmacy, somewhere in Palic, at a meeting he told me, it's no problem, I'll sign one and give one permission to pay off your entire expert meeting. Now look at how many signatures this agency director will make for the issue of all these drugs as you grouped them and what kind of money it is, and I can argue that the agency will be one very strong financial organization that will have more money than the ministry. When an information system is to be done for other healthcare institutions, it is now transferred to the Health Protection Act, and the Ministry has no money for it, and it will not have any money, and the agency will have the money to finance everything that is needed, but it will not do so because it is financially independent. Right now, we see this difference between an independent financial agency and something called a management that could, if necessary, focus on something that is extremely important for the state of Serbia, which is an information system in health care. Is it necessary to explain now only on this case how much more important it is that the control of the huge money that will be obtained on authorisation and which can be manipulated or let into some self-financed organization that will serve itself, or that money, and will not be able to see the overall social interest and will not be able to see how much information the health system needs at this time? I think it was more necessary to pass a law on the information system in some first step or second step than to go, so to pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5963	Anybody else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5964	Here's another attempt to separate professional institutions from administrative institutions, not to make a combination of professional-administrative -- administrative and finally to take advantage of what we have. How -- so developed a national drug tracking centre at the Clinical Center would be able to work and continue its work, not to be under the agency, and not reading the bill's proposal or seeing those people being translated into the membership of the agency, the people who are employed and working, the question is in what size and in what number, because the details I don't know, and if they weren't automatically translated, I mean the agency, what would they do next. Whether it'd be a double center or give the agency a chance to build up the numbers. So, some of the stalking methods of work that have already been developed and really no need to touch, since KC Serbia is somehow a sumptuous fact of all our ambiguities and the need to help each species, so there should be no need to think and develop any doubt that they would be competent enough to do so. We can't develop a center like it used to be at federal level, and he didn't function well either, and I did a little bit of work there and I saw that it didn't work until the end because of the poor co-operation of the Member States and even the developed network on the ground that was bad. We should say that an information network for a job like this must develop to perfection, that local centres in major health institutions have direct pass and co-operation with this. If it were to fall into the Agency's jurisdiction, then the agency would have in fact some of its facilities regarding one, or I mean those three units where the national drug control centre is. So, we think that this separation from the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry and this part, in a certain way under the government's patronage, is a clear problem in a health institution in the field of drug use issues, clearly defined and existing. It would be more desirable, simpler, cheaper and less complicated to accept the amendment, but since it destroys the concept of your organization, you'll probably vote negatively.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5965	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 95 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic to Article 96. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 101 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 101. It is about surveillance in the area of medicines, where Article 101(1) would have been amended and said "the competent ministry" to replace the words "medicine management and medical resources". Paragraph 2) is amended and reads - "confirms and controls the application of Good Manufacturing Practices, Good Laboratory Practices, Good Practices in Distribution, but also Good Clinical Practices, Good Apothecary Practice and Good Practice in Pharmacovigilance, as well as Standard and Operational Procedures in These Areas". It is quite clear why the Government of the Republic of Serbia rejected the first member, i.e. the first position, and I thank them for almost giving them an explanation on both sides, which is why it is not accepted, especially because in the beginning of the amendment given to Article 1 of the bill, we reject the agency and it is quite clear, although in the second position, since we have only added - Good clinical practice, Good apothecary practice and Good practice in the field of pharmacovigilance, I see no reason why it is not accepted. First of all, because on behalf of the SRS, we wanted to change these changes to the inspection supervision that takes place in the field of medicines and medical resources from the Ministry of Health in the "medicine and medical resources management". This ensures a consistent implementation of the first-degree and second-degree procedure in the administrative procedures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment accurately defines inspections for Good Clinical Practice, good practice in the field of pharmacovigilance, which primarily introduces the most important EU single standards for the control of the efficacy and safety of medicinal products, because there are no European directives, or guidelines on good apothecary practices adopted by the official EU body, which are provided for EU member states. As we know, the World Health Organization has proposed an act on Good Pharmacy Practice, with the adoption of the same of national competent legislation in the area regulated in the organisation of the work of pharmacies as part of the national health service.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5967	Anyone else want a word? National MP Pai Momchilov, according to the same amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5968	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I keep asking the minister to respond to our objections, I don't get the answer, but as it is, that's right. This amendment to the SRS and the comment the promoter made must also receive an answer. Namely, what was it said? Col. Cvetanovic made it clear what we wanted and what things we wanted to introduce with this amendment. We are responsible for this - the bill of law, the monitoring of unwanted drug reactions and medical resources is within the authority of the agency. Then he says -- the European Regulation for the field of medicines and medical resources, at this point, has not yet adopted an official act, as binding on the area of pharmacovigilance, monitoring unwanted reactions, although there are a number of standards, guides and guidelines for monitoring pharmacovigilance by the medicines agency. Namely, you, gentlemen of the radicals, claim something that is not true. Pharmacovigilance is a very important problem in the whole regulation, and it is thought to be perhaps the most important part where it should be and how cautious. The EU and ICH are talking about pre-marketing and post-marketing monitoring of unwanted medicinal products. This Directive shall enter into force on the clinical trials of medicinal products 2001-20tc. 05. In 2004, a new system of reporting, monitoring and distribution of data on undesirable effects of the drug was introduced. Mr. Minister, do you know about this directive? How do you claim that the EU has not regulated this area through a directive? I have a directive, I won't eat it. You don't deserve it, because you don't answer our questions. Harmonisation between the EU, Japan and the United States through the International Conference on Harmonisation, guidelines that are binding on the EU, which are also talking about this: Good clinical practice E6, on Pharmacovigilance Planning E2E, on the management of drug safety data after marketing E2B, on the periodic report on medicinal products security, on the addition of ICH E2C, on the transmission of individual reports of E2B/M cases, definition and standards on the E2A expeditionive application, all documents within the international harmonisation conference agree with the EU and the EU is required to adhere to them. Don't claim to be false that we say something in our proposal. Get rid of that manner, don't deceive the people, just as you deceived them yesterday when you said they'll get an extended market. What Mr. Minister? Did you know that in a world of three to four major multinational drugstores, there's no room for small-scale drugs? Which market are we going to win?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5969	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5970	The amendment is only a logical consequence of the concept. It changes the position of the 5th Article 103 instead of the "inspector" should stand "medical and medical management", since the inspector is as a delegate of that administration, in our concept it is possible, legally, not sustainable. It would be, as the government explains, that it is legally unsustainable, if it remained an agency, and it went this way. If the concept we have proposed is taken, then the institution could do both administrative and inspection tasks, so in these cases it would be legally sustainable. We didn't want to intervene by putting instead of "inspector", "government", of course it doesn't fit your complete concept, and we understand that. Perhaps we should pay more attention to the very high authority of the inspector. The problem would be better regulated if it were the management, because of the ability to work and the simplest control of his work. The inspector has great authority. If he is in charge, according to Article 101, that he should follow in practical terms the implementation of this law and all its regulations, then the powers are too great, and we only lower them to the lowest possible level – to control the work of pharmacies and distribution centres. These are the tiniest institutions in the system, the final ones, where the drug traffic ends. I'm very familiar with situations where inspectors abuse their great powers, great powers. He can take the medicine, he can, before he goes into inspection, leave a bag there and say – take it off from the pharmacy too, etc. It can't be too regulated by this law. Many laws regulate it, but we don't talk about it publicly. Today, there are very big problems with inspection and surveillance, and the powers are high. These must be really morally clean and competent people. We think that these would also be better monitored and under better control if it were done by a simpler system, such as the administration, not the agency, one conglomerate of different departments, sectors, departments, and, in fact, under the direct authority of the minister, singled out in a certain way, its report will also be submitted to the minister, abolishing something if he says it is not good. So, one mixture. The possibility of appeal to the inspector's decision comes down to the completion of the paper on the minister's desk. There's no real duplicity here. In our proposal there is and it is one of the protective mechanisms against the self-will of the inspector.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5971	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5972	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 112 is in line with the proposals that we, as an SRS parliamentary group, have made. And that's that prescribing conditions for issuing a marketing authorisation and medical means has a management, not an agency. It is this amendment that we explain that, as well as for medicines, and for medical means, the licenses for the marketing of medical means are issued by the administration, not by the agencies. Aware of the fact that this will not be accepted, most likely, even though we have brought out a light of arguments, we will continue to insist, through our amendments, that what we consider to be rational for the ground in the current situation, we will propose. What I would like to clarify, if possible, is not clear to me at least, those are the provisions in this Article, in Article 4 and Article 5, that the authorisations under Article 1 of this Article shall be issued for medical means which are in conformity with European Union directives, until the expiry of the time limit and the certificate of conformity, and for medical means which do not comply with the European Union directives, the marketing authorisation shall be issued for a period of five years. Provisions of Art. 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 46 and 48, these are prescriptions for medicines, the conditions and procedures for issuing licences are applied, by means of means and procedures. This is also used here for medical means, so for these reasons, I don't understand in these two indents the full interpretation, so if it's possible to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5973	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic to Article 113. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic to Article 118. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ilic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Goran Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment is exactly like that of the previous amendment, and it provides for a new indent in Article 133, which provides for the quality control of each batch of imported medical supplies. We want to protect the citizens of Serbia as much as possible. Different quality medical resources are on the market. And after the permit is issued, the quality can be changed. We had a terrible incident (which I cited a few days ago) importing Baxter's equipment and 22 victims, because the hemodialysis equipment was bad. We believe that this amendment rightly improves the law and we call on the government and the Ministry to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5975	Following the same amendment, Minister Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5976	Ladies and gentlemen, for the same reasons I explained to the 65th Amendment to Article 86, when we made it clear to the MPs that it was actually intended to control each series, but that it wasn't intended for a legal member but a sublegal act, we accept the amendment, for exactly the same reasons as 65.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5977	Since the government accepts the amendment, and in this case, what we said about the previous amendment is necessary. National MP Zoran Micovic submitted the amendment to Article 133. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5978	This is a technical matter. Given that the amendment to Article 133 of my colleague Goran Ilic has been accepted, this amendment is practically identical because it implies that the words "if necessary" are deleted in point 1. He says, "Controlling the quality of medical resources in the process of issuing a marketing authorisation and renewing a licence, if necessary." I ask that it be deleted: "if necessary", because it is understood that it is necessary that every series of medical resources go under control. I don't think I should explain it, since my colleague Ilic already explained it. If the minister has accepted this amendment, and this one is similar and refers to every series of medical resources being controlled, then it would be logical to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5979	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Micovic to Article 135. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5980	Since the minister is present, I have a lot to ask him. First of all, if the minister doesn't worry, they'll pass the law. Here, let's start with what we wanted with the amendment. What we've submitted, the change of concept, is really boring to repeat the same story more, but, we know, the law will be passed. Here, I bring good news. So that the legislators of the law can rest in peace from this boring law and three-day debate. But, and to make it so and to legislate, here, we ask you a question about this amendment -- what happens when the inspector leaves and the minister is visiting our Centre. But my director is always sensitive, and when I mention the Center, he thinks I'm saying bad things about my institution. On the contrary, no. The bread feeds me, there's my work book, there's nothing wrong with the institution I'm talking about, but, he saw the minister, a few days ago, in that visit relics on fast-moved material, by hallways, warehouses, etc. Women didn't get to put everything away. He came to us quickly, so he could see everything. He knows we're cooking with space. I know he knows we're going to get money to expand it, but for decades and more (not for all the wrong reform government) we live in such conditions. What's he gonna do now that the minister comes back? The law goes into effect, they don't increase our space, we don't have any warehouses. Magacin is placed among the patients. The inspector under the direct control of the minister, the so-called minister - the controller (is equal, or so can Aequano B, by analogy) comes and finds it. Will they close the dialysis center? Of course not. So there are a number of non-supervised decisions, which are made until such high rank by the minister-inspector. If it were in another institution, I don't think it would be any excuse for the situation in which it is, but the minister would have time, formal coverage and cover, to make things happen differently. Let's take another problem for example. This law does not provide for the distribution of medical resources to direct users. It was left to specialized institutions and pharmacies. Let me understand about the institutions, the hospitals, they'll probably be in the hospital pharmacy. Now, imagine what our hospital pharmacy will be like to just receive dialysis material, then we'll have to do what the warehouses are to write - the pharmacy, to satisfy the law. Something's missing, some lack of insight into the facts. How will patients on peritoneal dialysis, who receive 30 packs of bags (probably two to three cubic metres) and on a monthly basis, be transferred directly from the factory to their homes, what will they do now? Let's find some pharmacy, and then some drugstores with a "route" from pharmaceutical corruption. Let's tell them, take the fine material, and you compete which one you will, and we will come to your pharmacy. Well, excellently, they visited both the cross and the west, the directors of the pharmacy in the interior, and gave them camels to pay for camel guides. Because they pay for them at home. If we give the pharmacies that now, that they have, they'll put us in a position that the pharmacy can prescribe adequately, because they'll say this is not working for me, sell this to me, put it on the market... Well, you can do that for dialysis. Whatever they know, let you go, Doctor. It's a very delicate situation -- how this material is distributed. It's kind of undefined. You can invent a new law, now I don't know which, or some sublegal act, but in law it must stand - either a pharmacy, or it's a direct delivery. It's what you do in the world. Here's to say - the European Union. Well, and what I was saying - the pharmacopoeia, the reason for bringing it is harmonisation, standardisation, says in the foreword of the late Kovac, so Kovac, however, is from yours, they were all yours, and Krapovic, they were all yours from DOS, and they knew about harmonisation. And they wanted to. And they wanted to go with Europe. That's where I went in a year, just to see how they worked. So, if you're overwrite it and the world standard is to ask suppliers and suppliers for patients to supply you directly with material, and for haemodialysis. Imagine a hemodialysis machine, where to put it. Well, she's huge, this big. What a drugstore. Where? A specialized store? Well, who's gonna hold her? Should someone be paying some kind of rebate, too, tax? It's a little vague, so I don't know what that inspector's gonna do, (final story) when he's in a situation I mentioned, or he's gonna write records that end up in drawers without a final epilogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5981	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Please Members of Parliament, under Rule 81(1) of the Rules of Procedure, all of you know this well, the Assembly works between 10.00 and 1600 with an hour's interruption. It's not defined when, but I'll let you know we have three amendments. I'd like to ask the Minister for a five-minute closing, and in that case, we'll be able to wrap it up before the break, if that's all right with you. Please continue, let me finish these three amendments, very briefly, and then we'll have a break. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic to Article 151. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5982	Thank you. We feel that this amendment is very important too, and here's why. What do we say? We suggest that management, as we have imagined, begins work on June 1st, 2005. We believe that if it starts, according to this law that will be passed, it is clear to us that it has been working since autumn, that there will be major problems for the entire pharmaceutical industry and for the entire operating body that should be doing these jobs. I must reiterate the fact that I keep telling you, it does not enter Europe by adopting a law that the European Union will not regulate, and no directive requires it. It enters Europe by accepting standards that are covered by several thousand pages, in European Union files, that regulate this matter. What's next for us? The return jump, to try to apply it all, what Europe requires. That's very hard. I already said that France adopted the agency in 1998 and moved on in a new way. Two years left for the slow acceptance of everything that needs to be put into it. We absolutely need that. Since this is my last exposure, let me look back at a few observations of the entire debate. First of all, I express my dissatisfaction that our proposed authority has interpreted our amendments in this way. Second, because he didn't answer the essential things we resented. We're avoiding it. It can be adopted by an unprincipled coalition, but we are obliged to point out to the Serb people the dangers this law carries with it. The law allowed the administration to be moved to two places, hiding, not mentioning it, to allow the agency, as an independent and self-financed institution, which will exclusively depend on foreign factories, which will be interested in coming to this market, to allow easy access. It should not be allowed to control clinical trials and the quality of the drug, absolutely. That is why we believe that here, with one extended deadline, we should also allow the possibility of seeing dangers, traps lurking from all of this, to make it easier to adapt to all of this. That's reasonable. That's what big countries do. And that's why we urge you to adopt this. We know you won't adopt, but it's sad and I repeat again that the representatives of the SRS should worry about the money of the taxpayers of Europe, which is spent in one bad way. What is now adopted is privileged by an importing, foreign lobby and let's make that clear. Four projects still exist from this area, which Europe has been doing. Their first project was -- they came and recorded the state of our factories. The second project was for them - this legislative regulation and this law that has arisen, which Europe does not know. Their third project was -- that Mr. Minister knows very well, the guidelines. So they've identified the drugs that will come. They've already got them into the drug frame that we're going to use and now there's a fourth project going on, which is still under way, and that's also Mr. Minister well-known, who's been monitoring the consumption of these drugs. All they need is for them to just go free on this market and make a big profit. That's the basic intensity of this law. Foreigners have done it, unfortunately for us and for our shame. I'm not saying that the European Union has no good intentions, but these people who represented themselves as the European Union had bad intentions. I don't want to talk about them individually. We've got the paperwork and everything. So everything that's being adopted isn't good. We're not against the road to Europe, as you say. Don't tell us that. We're just saying -- we have to meet the standards, so we're going to be Europe. We, the MPs of the SRS, followers of our President Vojislav Seselj, who has been arrested in that Europe of yours, of those experts who rot for no reason in this Europe, dream of the day when the president will return to us and we will continue to speak the truth more intensely to the Serbian people and to fight for our improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5983	Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5984	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 156 and now look how you do. Here's the law - 24 April 2003. It was a member of 155th same law - legal and natural persons who produce, import or export, traffic drugs and medical resources to large and small, if we had asked to delete this "on little drugs", you probably wouldn't have accepted it. However, you have now changed it yourself in Article 156 of this same law, which you bring a year and a few months later, you are making such a member: "Legal and natural persons who produce, carry out drug trafficking and medical resources on large and medical resources, examine medicines and medical means, are obliged to comply with the provisions of this law", etc. Now you're already eliminating legal and physical persons that are trafficking on a little bit. Last time you didn't do it, you're throwing it out now. That's one discrimination. What is the difference between those who traffic "a little medicine" and those who traffic "on a little medical means" or now this is some kind of printing error in copying this law, which was given in the procedure in April, or with a certain intention it was done. It's hard to decrypt, but what's worrying and what shows a high degree of exclusion, which may be characteristic of other areas, but for health care, would not be a bold politicization to be. It is unacceptable not to accept the amendment to Article 133 to delete the words "if necessary" when you have already accepted the amendment. If you leave those words behind, you'll have a completely concave text that rules out now that amendment you've accepted. I think you should do it a little bit more correctly, because they stay in the text of the word "if necessary" and then you have the text, to control every series of medical means, if necessary or someone can say it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5985	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 157 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5986	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, except for three HIV infected persons, more children infected with the virus of infectious jaundice, bought 16 sanity cars worth 36,000 euros, made up written instructions and the crisis caused by a weak response of voluntary blood donors, have not seen other results of the reform since our Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister. It's ours because we're all doctors, that's why everyone who's a doctor, then it's ours, in that sense, otherwise thank God that he stays where he is so far. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 157. - where the Agency makes a decision to suspend the authorisation referred to in Article 1(1), or informs the competent ministries to suspend traffic, or withdraw the medicinal product and medical remedy from transport, if there are reasons laid down in Article 41(2) and (4) of this Act. We ask that the "notification of competent ministries" be deleted and that it reads: "constitution, bans traffic, or withdraws medicine and medical resources from traffic". Since you say that your minister and since he is a member of a party that instead of calling the code, he calls himself an expert, who puts his hands on every institution where he has money, competes in tenders, the European Development Agency is meant to reform the pharmaceutical service, and you have seen evidence for 200,000 euros that does not feel the need to resign after all these criticisms, he would be replaced in every country. Because of the harsh violation of the health care laws, it comes with its professional and moral capacity because of the arrogant takeover of a place, because it violated Article 56. The Health Protection Act, where the Ministry is required to carry out external surveillance, and instead, it only changes the management's furniture. He changed four sets in Užica. This man from the DSS, Ljubish, sat in the first bench, who was the director of the Clinical Centre in the King, had to leave this session out of shame now, and in the end how you operate was seen from a payment order, where a donation to the KBC Surgeon "Stars" Belgrade, because in order to be able to operate, a woman had to pay 15,000 dinars, in this way operating, allegedly donations, in fact, directly in the pocket of patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5987	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer – the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5988	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has earned so much energy. It provides the right grounds for introducing high standards and quality and at the same time introduces very precise and strict criminal measures for violations in an area that is of interest to every citizen of Serbia, who has had the opportunity to listen to our statements these few days. The monopoly agency has no, it has with several members the obligation that in everything it needs good services, good laboratories, thank God in this country for a long time, to exploit them, but in the way that the law provides and with respect for what is above all the procedure, recorded and agreed procedure that everyone must then respect. This can then be called one of the main qualities, first of all, creating the basis for precise procedures and procedures for the rules and arrangements of the system that we need, which was damaged in the mid-90s in a way that even after 10 years we are not satisfied with the state of the system. Of course not, there are problems and the Ministry solves them. Citizens see and feel how and how fast. I would like to say that I owe you my gratitude and that I would like to congratulate you, all MPs, on your energy and effort, because this is a major systemic step for Serbia's health and for preserving health, preventing and treating the diseases of all our citizens. I am convinced that citizens will be able to recognize and understand our efforts in a good way and that this will be a reason for their greater optimism and satisfaction after this law has been passed. I congratulate you on this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5989	It concludes the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm taking a break until 3:30. I remind all members of the Legislative Committee, the Legislative Committee on the Ground floor, meeting. [[After break – 15.55]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of this session. Before we begin, I ask that we determine the quorum. I ask all Members of the Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronics units. I understand that by applying the electronic system, we've determined that there are 85 MPs in the O.R. We are moving to the 10th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Energy (Principles) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They received a set of amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Nemanja Sarović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Branislav Blažić, Milovanovic, Vojislav Milajić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Colić, Milorad Mirčić, Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Rankić, Darko Glisic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Sreto Perić, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragan S. Jovanovic, Slobodan Mihajlović and Dragoljub Zivkovic. The amendment was written by MPs Slobodan Mihajlović to member 71 and Dragoljub Zivkovic to member 69 and Article 70. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the reports of the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected the amendments of the National MP Slobodan Mihajlovic to Article 19 and Article 39, and these amendments, based on the position of the 5th member, cannot be discussed at the session of the National Assembly. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 38 minutes, 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds, Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes, 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, five minutes under Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, Vladan Jovicic was authorised as the representative of the 10th agenda parliamentary group, and in front of the parliamentary group, the Democratic Party is the authorised representative of the MP Slobodan Mihajlovic, a member of this parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Radomir Naumov, Minister of Mining and Energy, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5991	Dear Mr President, honourable fellow Members of the People, gentlemen and gentlemen, at the beginning of the 21st century, energy action has faced dramatic changes worldwide, conditioned primarily by the acceptance of the concept of sustainable energy development, which implies the use of natural resources in a way that will allow the preservation of energy resources and the environment for future generations. In terms of energy consumption and limited resources for its production, the requirements for increasing energy efficiency in the production, consumption and distribution of energy have been significantly potentiated, increasing the reliability of consumer supply, adequate protection of the human environment and the elimination of monopoly in this sector. These requirements have led to reforms in the energy sector, so there are no countries in the world today where energy sector restructuring processes are not under way, the new organisation of energy companies, the creation of conditions for the liberal electricity market, the adoption of new legislation. It is safe to say that these are the most complex reform processes for each country, and in particular countries in transition, given the necessary knowledge, experience, length of duration and financial resources. Change doesn't happen spontaneously, it has to be designed, modeled, encouraged and controlled. Therefore, in order to build an organised and competitive market, great intellectual, professional and social efforts are needed. On a series of open issues, starting with technical issues, whether new solutions based on the introduction of modern technologies will be able to provide the required performances of energy systems at acceptable costs and to political ones, whether international control in decentralised systems will be politically acceptable, not all answers are yet known. We, dear colleagues, are the honourable MPs, the last country in Europe to approach the adoption of legislation from the energy field, which should enable the implementation of energy sector reforms. In order to ensure that, at the level of the Republic, a single policy of development in the field of energy and create conditions for the permanent and uniform development of strategic important actions has been implemented, the creation of a single law which, as proposed, covers all activities in the field of energy that are of paramount importance for the overall development of the Republic, and especially from the point of view of a reliable settlement of the needs of the economy and the population for energy, i.e. energy products and services. The reason is certainly also the definition that reforming the energy sector creates preconditions for the more efficient operation of all energy-efficient entities, as well as for the appropriate institutional changes to their business, in particular from the point of view of economic effects and training for the market conditions of business. In addition to these unquestionably important reasons for the adoption of the law, it is also important to highlight the need to comply with our legislation in the field of energy with the European Union regulations relating to the energy sector, which is also implemented, the harmonisation of domestic rules governing legal relations in the energy sector, as well as with acts relating to the regional market. All of this has been done with the aim of ensuring the necessary conditions for the integration of energy entities in the region, their equal position on the energy market, the approximately same degree of protection of energy customers and other conditions that ensure the gradual opening of the energy market. In this way, energy operators operating in the territory of the Republic also create conditions of business, both in technical, technological and organisational terms, necessary to ensure that regional integration processes and conditions for inclusion in economic flows are in place. In order to create preconditions for integration processes and long-term co-operation in the field of energy with the countries of the European Union and countries in the region, an analysis has been carried out of the laws of other countries, including countries in our environment, and it has been concluded that, basically, all national legislation has come from the real state of development of energy activity in its countries and has implemented the harmonisation of its rules to those regulations of the European Union and regulations relating to the region, at a different level of legal institutions related to energy, respecting these basic guidelines of the European Union rules which ensure the harmonisation of legal regulation in that area. In defining legal solutions in regulating the conditions for the performance of the energy performance of production, transmission, transport, distribution and supply of energy, the way in which the relationship between energy operators and the users of their products and services, as well as relations on the energy market, came from the following principles. Consumer protection - first of all, tariff customers, or those who do not have the option of selecting suppliers; both protection regarding the provision of the necessary amount of energy and the application of regulated energy prices and energy services. Further, sustainable development of energy, which will be in line with the energy strategy defined at the level of the Republic, with the decentralisation of obligations and responsibilities in the planning and implementation of the plans. Then, market business, i.e. the creation of competitive conditions, with equal rights of all entities in carrying out energy activity. Then, regulated and non-discriminatory approach to monopoly, hence, transmission system and distribution network, as well as energy efficiency; the principle of energy efficiency, the use of renewables and environmental protection, which implies encouraging rational energy consumption and the use of hydroenergy, biomass in production and full respect of environmental regulation. What are the important newspapers in this law? I'll just count a few. So, for one thing, energy policy and energy development planning. The law provides for the principles and principles set out to begin with the implementation of a single energy action development policy by adopting a development strategy at the level of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a programme for its implementation. In the process of planning energy needs and how they are achieved, the role and responsibility of republican, regional and local governance bodies, as well as energy entities themselves, have been defined. Second paper, founding an energy agency. The Agency for Energy is a regulatory body, which is fully independent of all state bodies, energy entities and users of their services in its work and decision-making. So it's an independent body. According to its powers, the regulatory agency is the most important new institution, since it will, as trusted, carry out certain tasks that have so far been within the rights and duties of the state authorities, such as the issue of licences for the performance of energy activities, the determination of the methodology for the budget of eligible costs for the operation of energy operators, the adoption of tariff systems for regulated energy activities and the giving of opinions on the prices proposed by energy operators whose activities are regulated. The regulated energy and energy prices are being protected, on the one hand, by the protection of tariff customers by regulating monopoly activity, and, on the other hand, by the protection of energy operators, by establishing the price based on justified operating costs and return rates of investments determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The third newspaper is the energy market. I can scream if you can't hear me. The creation of an organised energy market is a long-term process, and the preconditions for its opening are the abolition of monopoly in the construction of production capacities, through energy permits that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can issue to all legal and natural persons who meet the requirements, by introducing a regulated third party access to the transmission system and distribution networks by publicly published tariffs and by introducing qualified customers. Qualified customers are customers of energy that have an annual consumption greater than the limits of prescribed consumption. They have the right to buy energy at market prices and can choose from whom to buy energy. Qualified customers can decide not to use this right, they can stay in the category of tariff buyers. The law regulates that the energy consumption limit is reduced in terms of real conditions, i.e. market opening dynamics, which is decided by the agency. Fourth, electricity production, fourth news. The production of electricity will be dealt with by energy operators that are active in the general interest, that is to say, regulation of activities of general interest, which are mainly public enterprises so far, independent producers, these are new private producers that have not assumed the obligation to carry out activities of general interest and which operate under market conditions, as well as privileged producers, these are producers with the right to appropriate subsidies and benefits, and in order to stimulate the use of renewable energy in production. Electricity trade - electricity trade will deal with all entities that meet the conditions laid down for the performance of that activity, as suppliers of electricity, while qualified customers can freely negotiate the purchase of electricity from suppliers, while for tariff buyers, the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine the supplier and he will have an obligation to supply them at regulated prices. We have, further, an interesting newspaper, it's a transmission system operator, it's an energy entity that manages the transmission system, provides its operational functioning, provides non-discriminatory access to the system and performs systems, i.e. Regulation and other supplementary services. This entity is responsible for the safe functioning of the power system, so it provides, if necessary, orders for changes in the agreed plans, I mean a plan for the operation of the power plants or for limiting consumption. A new entity appears, it is a market operator, and it is responsible for the efficient organisation of the energy and energy markets in the free market. The market operator defines the financial and other conditions for major trade participation, keeps records of long-term contracts, as well as the arrangements for the next day, prepares technical data on contracted production, purchase and consumption, and delivers them to the transmission system operator, and calculates the costs of detachment of defined purchase arrangements. The transmission of electricity, etc., because I see that I may have extended too much, and if you think that we can open a principle debate without additional elements, I welcome you and say that this is definitely the reform law that introduces us to Europe. Please adopt him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5992	Thank you all for your parliamentary optimism. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Industry, Veroljub Stevanović, is not there. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudic, does not want a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DS and SRS. I give my word to the MP Dragoljub Zivkovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic. Please, if the MPs agree. Slobodan Mihajlovic, authorised DS representative for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5993	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have on the agenda a bill on energy that is one of the most important laws this National Assembly should consider and adopt. This is because the adoption of this law is of strategic importance, which basically means that it is one of the basic conditions for further development of the energy sector and for the economy of our country as a whole. We have long waited for this bill to be found on the agenda of the Assembly, more than a year from the moment the first proposal of this law came out, to this day, it did not happen because of the lack of political will and the lack of understanding of the need for such a law. Energyically, our country has limited primary energy reserves, except for reserves... (President: Mr. Michaelovich, I can't technically help with the sound. Just set up the microphones. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... We have some lignite reserves in Kosovo and Metohija, and we know what is wrong with Kosovo. We also have a high share of the used hydropotential, so in the next period, depending on the imports of electricity, it will certainly increase. In addition to this fact, there is a trend in reducing domestic production of oil and natural gas, contrary to the process of increasing final consumption, primarily gas in industry. In line with the pace, the recovery of the economy, the introduction of new technologies, also in light of the comprehensive reforms of society, imposes the need for a new institutional, legislative and economic framework, in which the energy sector would certainly and quality perform its role. The adoption of this law creates conditions for the creation of a strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to adopt medium- and long-term development plans under this strategy. The conditions the EU puts in the field of energy are based on the Athenian Charter, on the principles of linking our country's energy sector to the energy system of European countries, directives that regulate the internal market and transit of electricity, as well as the transit of natural gas. The objective of all of this is to bring legal regulation into line with EU countries, i.e. to bring our regulations into line with legislation in the region itself. This comes from the real state of energy development. At this moment, laws are in force in our legal system which individually regulate both the way and the conditions of carrying out energy activities. This is the decision on general conditions for the supply of electricity, the Electricity Act, the General Terms Regulation for the supply of natural gas, the decision on the tariff system for the sale of electricity, etc. This is another reason for the law to be passed, in order to run a single policy. The development of energy means the development of all activities in the field of energy. The new law provides for four basic energy activities – production, transmission, transmission system management, market organisation, distribution, management and electricity trade. Other activity is the production of oil derivatives, oil transport, oil products and other forms of transport, storage, oil trade and oil derivatives. The third activity is the transport and management of the natural gas transport system, storage, distribution and natural gas trade. Last in this law – production, distribution, management and supply of heat from tariff customers. In the first of these four activities, this law provides for the most changes, given the current situation and the organisation of the EPS. Compared to the first proposal of this law, in this proposal that's on the agenda today, we have one part that's less reformal, and that's, above all, to throw out a big dealer for tariff buyers. In this way, the introduction of competition in the area of electricity production and distribution is delayed, i.e. the existing vertical integrated system of the organisation of public enterprises is maintained. This, according to the DS, is an insufficient reform solution that has no economic justification, as it retains the large-scale EPS system and all the irrationalities of such a system. The introduction of competition and markets certainly reduces business costs, increases efficiency and productivity, and the horizontal integrated organisation system, as opposed to this, definitely drives and imposes itself as the ultimate and theoretical best solution. The current example for clearing these internal relations is also in the current EPS strike, where electro-distributive activity is located in a subordinate position relative to production and transmission, and requires an equal relationship, i.e. seeking its place of distribution, in the way these other two activities determine it. We have a flyer from that strike, where the money, as one illustration of this, is that the final separation of production and distribution, i.e. the introduction of the market to the end is a complete reform, permanent and final solution to the organisation of the electricity sector in general. The justification for this, i.e. the foothold for this proposal in the new law, can likely be found in the experiences of countries in the environment, i.e. countries in transition, but also in the experiences and trends of electro-developed countries. This trend of vertical disintegration of the electricity industry that started with the opening of the market has been interrupted especially after the energy crises in California, so that in the last two or three years this movement is precisely in the direction of vertical integration, and that may be the only justification for this gradual introduction of the market, rather than radically, as it was in the first draft of the law. A horizontally organized company practically means a complete separation of production and distribution from electricity, and since we already have more than once specially organized electricity transmissions, so we get three completely separate continents of electricity. We can say that perhaps the obligation contained in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Article 43 of this proposal, that in the event that an energy entity performs two or more activities, the obligation to take account of each of these activities is a transitional solution to the full introduction of the market, i.e. competition in this system. This could probably contribute to the state of Serbia's Elektroprivreda in terms of organisation and the extent of restructuring, i.e. the reforms that have been launched. In this proposal, the law also places a significant place for privileged electricity producers, i.e. those producers using renewable electricity or waste sources, as well as those using combined electricity production processes. It was left, at the end of this first part of this work, for the government of the Republic of Serbia to organise the electricity market, in accordance with current requirements for the development of production, technical and technological development of networks. This is an additional burden for the implementation of such a law, while at the same time not completely closing the possibility of introducing a market in this area of electricity trade. There are no significant changes in the area of oil and oil derivatives compared to the previous bill, except in the area of transport of oil and petroleum products, by pipeline, or by product, where access is dominant. There are some illogicalities in this part, and above all they refer to the definition of energy. It's just that natural gas and oil are not energy. They are treated with energy, and then, in accordance with further members of this bill, there are some contradictions, and we will later say that in the discussion of details. (President: Mr. Michaelovich, will you use the other 10 minutes now? Yes. There's also a lack of laws on mining that would circle this area around energy, or energy. With regard to the transport, storage and distribution of natural gas, it is specific that transport, storage and management of natural gas can be carried out by the same energy entity, too, that the energy entity for the distribution of natural gas is also an operator of the distribution system, and the sole supplier of natural gas to tariff customers in the territory where it carries out its work. Special activity in this proposal is the production and distribution of heat energy. Unlike previous activities, it is organized locally and has the character of municipal activity. In that part, the DS has, by amendment, influenced the status of the privileged heat producer, which should be in the power of the Government, or the Republic, not local self-government. One of the essential things of this bill is the establishment of two agencies, primarily energy agencies or regulatory agencies and energy efficiency agencies. The Agency for Energy is an independent regulatory body operating without profit and is financed from the annual fee, and performs the most important tasks in this area. The Agency shall issue a licence, adopt a tariff system with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, determine the limit consumption for qualified customers, establish a price-setting methodology based on justified operating costs, give the Government of the Republic of Serbia an opinion on price proposals, give consent to rules on the operation of energy operators, determine the criteria and method of determining the costs of the connection to the system, decide by appeal to acts on refusal of access to the system. In one word, the Energy Agency takes over a large part of the work of the competent ministry and public enterprises, which performs on a non-profit and, above all, professional basis, taking care of strategic energy plans and the interests of the country as a whole. Compared to the previous draft of the law, the agency's powers have been withdrawn from the issue of energy permits, which have been returned to the ministry. That's how this agency's role was reduced. It's still somehow part of that insufficient reform part of this bill. I would pay particular attention to the energy efficiency agency, which, unlike the previous agency, was established in September 2002 and worked for the next two years, that is, until this year, when it was abolished. In terms of energy ineffectiveness, the need for this agency is more than obvious. Her role is, above all, mobile, consulting, advisory and educational. It promotes programmes and measures for rational use of electricity, stimulates the use of renewable energy sources, takes into account environmental protection, improves energy efficiency and rational use in all stages of production and consumption, promotes education programmes, sets standards and is the authority for all information on rational use of energy, cooperates with the Government of the Republic of Serbia to develop and implement policies that support energy efficiency in general, offers advice and support to all public institutions and businesses in selecting and applying energy technologies, implements laws and regulations in this area, connects with all relevant organisations active in this field in the country and outside it, proposes and sets out all financial mechanisms and means for the realisation of all projects in this area, as well as manages the Serbian Energy Efficiency Fund. I purposely said the basic functions of this agency, because over the past two years, the agency has been doing what I've been talking about, fulfilling its task, at very little cost. It mainly operated on the basis of a European Union donation, through the European Agency for Reconstruction, and its existence was an exclusive condition for all donations from the world in the field of energy efficiency. The proposal for this law does not contain a member relating to the management of the Agency, the authorities of the Agency have been abolished: the Management Board, the Director, the Supervisory Board, or the way in which the Agency is organised as a public undertaking. In this way, the energy efficiency agency is attached to the resolution ministry. We think the agency has justified its existence over the past two years and that this way of organising and working the agency is not good. There are several reasons why this bill should be adopted, despite the fact that it contains a series of shortcomings that I have already stated in principle. First of all, it is an increase in the security of energy supply through the introduction of competition, control of monopoly activities and reduction of operating costs, i.e. the introduction of a fundamental reform of the energy sector. As far as the shortcomings are concerned, there is a reserve here related to the speed of market competition. First of all, I'm talking about getting kicked out of the law of trade proposal for large-scale tariff buyers, namely control of the monopoly of public enterprises. Another reason is the need for the energy sector to be educated as a sector that will attract investment, through regulation of legal, organisational and, above all, non-discriminatory conditions. This should attract private capital with the highest level of certainty and security. This is particularly expressed in the area of electricity production, especially in the case of renewable energy sources. In this way, the long-term development of energy in general is also ensured. The adoption of this proposal for a law is in line with the regulation of the European Union and with the regulatory countries in the region, in line with the signed Athens Charter in November 2002. The document envisions a regional electricity market opening on 1 January 2005. Since we are already a year and more late with the adoption of this law, we need to keep in mind the experience of countries in the environment, that it takes almost two years since law-making to achieve full operationality of all newly formed reform institutions. Due to all this, the Democratic Party MP club – Boris Tadic will support this law in principle, and in the part of the law in particular will try to fix amendments with a proposal. In the end, I would use this time to say that this law is adopted in the framework of reform, above all by changing the market, and that as a second framework, restructuring, first of all, of the public sector, is imposed on the public sector, to make business structure more efficient. At this point, restructuring started in 2001, particularly in the electricity sector, in some ways stalled because it seeks stability, both the executive authorities and the legislative ones. I think it's necessary, but another problem is being imposed, and that's the current term "cohabitation". It may seem to have nothing to do with this, but if the most successful parts of Serbia's Elektroprivreda with their top managers have achieved the greatest success in restructuring, at this point they are largely replaced. There is one, possibly party, or majority desire to complete the process, so we have many cases that from the ruling board of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia to the boards of directors of public enterprises, complete changes were made, as well as in public enterprises that went into restructuring, even received prestigious awards, prestigious awards, given by the Elektroprivreda Sr., i.e. the "Gjorđe Stanojević" award. I'll just give you two examples. The director of "Electro Serbia" Kraljevo was replaced just months after winning the award of "Jordje Stanojevic". We don't know why. The restructuring has completely stalled at Elektro Serbia Royalo. Also, the director of TE Veliki Creni, who during his term of office did the most in restructuring, tripled the production of electricity by the minority, has also been replaced. There's a series of examples for that, which I'll probably bring out in the next exhibits, but all the way down to the end. So it's also about stopping restructuring directly, and we're aware of how important the process is in the context of the period in which this law is being passed and which should never be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5994	The People's MP, the president of the SRS MP's hole, Tomislav Nikolic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last 15 days of the presidential campaign, I have had several meetings with well-intentioned and malicious people, who represented various European institutions. I've heard nothing new from them except one truth I'd like to tell you, and then you think about it. Around - only those who did not listen to the advice of the European Union entered Europe, and listed countries that preserved national banking, economy, production, agriculture, until the moment they strengthened so much that they could open their borders and mix goods. We're going the wrong way. The minister told us -- here, we enter Europe if we adopt this law. I would help you, Mr. Minister, to have this law passed within 15 minutes and to announce to all bells the entry of Europe tomorrow, but it is so far from us and so little depends on this law, that you should never have used it as a recommendation of this bill. In 2001, a three-letter company, whose name you avoided last night to mention, was called EFT or I-Ef-Ti, as it is called. She was founded by two connected faces. She had an office, a phone and two briefcases. Today it's a competition for our electricity industry. She grew up on taxpayers' money from Serbia. You didn't help her. Mladjan Dinkic helped her. She showed up whenever someone was supposed to sell us electricity in tenders where we didn't guarantee that electricity would be paid. And I-Ef-Ti willingly accepted such contracts, without a state guarantee, because she kept the state money with her all the time. In three years, it has become the most powerful firm in this area, not in Serbia, not in the Balkans, I mean in Southeast Europe. This law was written by this company. I heard the praises of one of its owners a few months ago, he told Serbian citizens - wait for the energy law, when there will be no more monopoly on electricity production. As a child, I grew up with some names - Rama, Vrla, Ovhar. As a young man, I've heard of Gerdap. After that, thermal power plants started, so the nuclear power plant in Krško, and so much talk about building a nuclear power plant in Serbia. This has been prevented, but all my life since World War II, we say, not to mention small power plants before World War II, but since that war, Serbia's citizens have singled out a huge part of their budget to build a system for electricity production. And he's who he is. And it's as expensive as it's expensive. And the easiest thing to do is to destroy it. It's the easiest. And you will destroy it. It is the easiest thing to break his price in two winters in which his electricity will be more expensive than electricity at the EFT company. You're doing it with this bill. I'm hardly interested in this law because there's no strategy. You're talking about the law and the strategy that will be passed. You're talking about an agency that will be established. And until it's established, the government solves complaints. And who's gonna do this from article 15 that's meant for the agency? Who until then? Who will operate the tariff systems, who market, who issues the licenses until the agency is established? Because in transitional and final terms, you say - the government will only solve complaints from the Agency's jurisdiction. But the strategy from which energy policy would arise would tell us clearly whether we are for our sources of electricity or not. The ones we are for, the ones we're not for. Which we'd like to privatise, which we wouldn't. Which we'd like to use, which we'd like to close. We don't have a strategy. But we have a market, we have a network and we have consumers. Now, that's what companies from Europe are interested in. They are interested that under blackmail you can enter Europe, only if you open your market, to enter our market under that blackmail. I allow myself to make mistakes, but I'm convinced that two years will come with dumping prices and it will hold. It will hold until they bring down Serbia's Elektroprivreda. And we still have Elektroprivreda, we have the oil industry of Serbia, here I allow the minister to know something else in Serbia that is worth it. And here they are, who have fallen into Serbia's Elektroprivreda, in a perfiduous way. To weaken her to the end, not to be competitive, to introduce to her a market she probably won't be able to stand. Is Serbia's Elektroprivreda ready to be forced into the market for this moment? Are you, Mr. Minister, from the DSS, and you rule Elektroprivred, with the exception of a short time when a colleague was removed from the DS on various charges, and then nothing came true after that, and he stayed removed. So, as soon as you came back to power, you took over the power plant again, but now I'm asking you, for these three years, have you prepared the power industry for competition? I don't think so. You were just preparing her so she couldn't stand the competition. You've thrown out the pit spears, now you're giving up coal, you're cleaning up slowly. Last night, you said there'd be technologically extra workers. They're not going to lose their jobs, they're going to have social programs. We see these social programs, 100-200 euros per year of internships. Ask even some MPs from here, during which time, at such a high rate, the dinars spent their 20 or 30 years of working hours at a firm in Serbia. At this rate of dinar, which hasn't changed in four years. It's like we work 24 hours a day. We're supposed to be shot by those of Europe that we're breaking their euro so bad. He can't get away from the dinars. Not at all. They work, poor people, hire foreign labour, war with the whole world, sell weapons and never move the euro beyond the dinars, and the dinar is a currency in a country where no one does anything. What does the electricity market mean, which means that electricity producers participate in it; electricity dealers and qualified customers, that's fine, they need it. Where did you find that to equalize our electricity producer with an electricity trader from abroad? We could thus import plums and apples and pears and water and air, all of us in Serbia could import cheaper than what we produce in Serbia. Every product, find me one product, I'll give you at least three e-mail addresses from three countries in a world where it's cheaper. And with transportation, and with customs, and with taxes cheaper than in Serbia. Is that our wish? Are we going to protect anything in Serbia? Is it a state that doesn't protect its electricity producer and doesn't want to protect its oil industry, ask the one who runs Western Europe, does it give an oil industry? No, it's a national industry, it's not given. No banks are available, but you've cleared banks for cheap money. So the intention is good, although I don't see the reason, but here's from several laws of gas, electricity, it's being brought into one law. I'd say there's a reason to justify it, but the basic idea of the law is contained only in that electricity market. Everything else was written by professional people. Everything else is regulated by other regulations. There's no agency so far, we don't need them now, you know that well, but, "Come on, Ali, if it was more of an army," as one of our countries would say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5996	Mr. Nikolic, are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5997	No, I'm done, I'm gonna need it, I'm sure of it. But we're not voting for this bill based on the work of the Committee of Auditors. We filed criminal charges against the responsible persons. I believe until the prosecution informs us whether there is a basis for people being prosecuted because in Serbia on our money, on our torture, a company that is now stronger than our Elektroprivreda, until someone from the government comes out here and says the result, we will not vote for this law. A team before those who destroy Elektroprivreda hinted at him. And to let you know, it's about privates. Privates who were interested in this knew about this bill and threatened Serbia with this bill. When someone threatens Serbia, I have to be against the threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5998	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, MP Vladan Jovicic, representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u5999	Mr Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People, we have a very important and extremely reform law in front of us, a law that defines us according to what our goal is, which is to integrate our country into European flows and connect it as far as the energy sector is concerned. First, regionally to interact with countries in the environment on certain rules, on certain principles, and only then to interact with the EU, when certain conditions are met in legislation and also in technical and technological terms. So, in front of us is system law and an extremely important law, which in any case solves many dilemmas and long ago, Serbia's Elektroprivreda looms in sublegal solutions, which have not even been applied in politically stable times. No one prevented previous governments from applying the Law on Public Enterprises in stable times, so that they could restructure the Elektroprivred during the 1990s, when they were individual presidents, vice-presidents, etc. We have before us a system law that enters the depths of the energy sector and essentially changes relations in energy. It adapts to the EU directive, but according to the architecture of our electricity industry, not as two legal solutions offered by the DOS at the time of its two previous ministers, Goran Novakovic and Kori Udovici, because these legal solutions did not fully respect the EU directive, nor did they know the architecture of the problem in which our energy sector is located, as well as the oil industry. A large part of the tasks of harmonising the regulations themselves with the already mentioned EU directive will be entrusted to one regulatory body, which is the energy agency. Of course, this will, for example, be decided on tariffs, or prices and other important issues that will be remote, certainly distanced from this legal solution, from the day-to-day policy, or from the Serbian government's own decisions. For what reason? For the reason that through this agency that I mention, the energy efficiency agency will, in fact, be responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this legal solution gives unlike the previous two. And we heard that it allegedly slowed down reforms, that is, it was simply the DOS period when the government was enough for itself, the Assembly didn't have to exist, no control had to exist, no agency or anything else. The DSS also believes that the issue of agencies, not only in energy, but in any area, must be resolved legally, not set up by regulations and that simple ad hoc controls are established by those agencies. Let's get back to the point. The agency is an independent and non-profit regulatory body, and it will be financed from the annual fee. The agency's work control, which was mentioned here, will be done by the National Assembly, as I said, because it will define its annual financial obligations. It is precisely independent of politics, depending on the people's will and whom the people will choose, any government or any assembly, that it will be able to control that agency and give certain tasks, and yet its basic thing is to provide electricity, or heat, both for industry and for broad consumption. So there's this democracy, and there's this transparency, which didn't exist at the time of those who said they were very transparent, and then they were the subjects of the polling committee of this assembly. That, of course, will be stated by those organs that are meant to be for it, which is why they exist in this country. Simply put, there was a pay phone here saying there was no competition. Well, on the contrary, you're just developing competitiveness, and you have that in Article 4 of point 3 of this law, but let's go back. The monopoly in electricity production is abolished and many worry whether the EPS, as it is, will withstand that competitiveness. I'm sure he will, for the simple reason why this law does not deal with status or ownership relations. It is now regulating and bringing us closer to those legislations that are simply familiar with both Macedonia and Bulgaria, and Romania, Hungary, Croatia, BiH, or Republika Srpska. We simply need to fit into the processes that we as a state have taken over by international agreements signed in Athens. So, the elimination of monopoly in electricity production, because independent electricity producers will be involved, and they will in any case get licenses, as is the legal solution here. Those licenses will be granted to manufacturers and distributors. Of course, there will be records of all contracts, so that there will be no uncontrollable spillage of tax funds and contributions from our citizens. All these relations will be carried out by the market operator and will be the same as the transmission operator within the transmission system, because the Elektroistok will simply come out of Serbia's Elektroprivreda and become an independent transmission system, but available to all those who produce, buy or sell electricity. What has been said, at least what my previous speakers have apostropheded, is precisely this law has abolished this large trader, which, on the one hand, was considered to be a fearsome one, and justifiably is a fearsome one, and, on the other hand, is considered a reform solution. On the contrary, it's not a reform solution, because imagine what that merchant can do right now. It can sell electricity to the manufacturer, spin around each other and imagine now that the wholesaler is selling Serbia's electricity produced by Serbia's Elektroprivreda. That's why it's been kicked out of the law, and that's exactly the kind of disagreements that I don't think are well presented by my previous speakers. On the contrary, I believe that the application of this law and just control, primarily from the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then the Government, all of these agencies that I mentioned, and, of course, in co-operation with the Resolute Ministry of Energy, are about to reach a more efficient energy system and come, in practice, to a very necessary break from the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, so that it can simply capitalise its resources, to restore them. It is known that we have been in isolation long enough, it is known that the refurbishing and modernization of the system itself, both portable and productive, and distributed, has not simply been in line with use, for this reason and today we have great losses in the transmission and transmission of electricity. You all are well aware that the completion of the transformation system in Serbia is, in fact, already reaching conditions for connection and we are going back to where we were in the pre-bombing period and the damage to the entire energy system, the bombing of our country in 1999, and the return of the system to the position in which it once was. The prerequisite for this is certainly this law, which brings us closer to the regulation known to the environments around us and, of course, the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6000	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Zivkovic, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6001	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed energy law is a very important system law, of strategic importance not only for the development of energy but for our entire economy. He's a deep reform law at the same time. Two ministries have worked on this law for several years and has been proposed to the National Assembly for a statement in a form that, according to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, is acceptable. As you have heard from distinguished counterpart Mihajlovic, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this law. But that doesn't mean this law is spotless. He has several shortcomings, which we have tried to propose 22 amendments and 6 brand-new members of the law to improve. Several amendments have been supported by the government, a number of amendments have not, but we will explain in particular the essence of the proposed amendments and ask the honourable colleagues and fellow MPs to still vote in favour of these amendments, because we believe that they will significantly improve this law. This law will not solve problems in energy in itself, but it will create a legal, or institutional framework, as lawyers say, that problems are more effectively solved and that they occur a few years back, probably even earlier, and that are said today, in one regulated system they are no longer a form of appearance. We are deeply convinced that something like this will happen. The objectives of the energy law are to lead a single policy of development in the energy field, to create preconditions for the more efficient work of all energy-efficient entities and to implement the necessary harmonisation of our legislation in the field of energy with European Union regulations. This creates conditions for regional integration of energy entities, their equal position on the energy market, approximately the same degree of protection of energy customers and other conditions that ensure the gradual opening of the energy market. Our energy has a lot of problems, they are numerous and can be classified into several groups. I put them in seven groups. These are economic-economic, economic-energy, energy-sector, sector-technological, technological-energy, energy-ecological and technological-development. Technological development problems are not in a narrow sense energy problems. They are broader economic problems, and it concerns the lagging behind of our industry and the inability to participate in the production of vital objects in the construction of our energy facilities, primarily electricity. In essence, we could simply say that our energy problems are inefficiently producing energy, which is a mortgage last time and is not only a problem in a larger number of employees, but also in the fact that our capacities are too exploited without regular maintenance, without regular refurbishing and regular modernisation, which would allow our production capacities to be able to compete with the production capacities operating in Europe and even in our closer environment. There are also major problems that are from a group of energy sectoral problems, which is about the great use of electricity for heating purposes, which is from the technical aspect of total nonsension, and from economical, it's making us huge losses, so we currently have that in households more than 50% of electricity is consumed, and at the same time the consumption of natural gas is low, below 22%. We also have major problems in the consumption sector, and therefore our high expectations are that the Energy Efficiency Agency will give its share in increasing the energy efficiency of our capacity in the energy consumption area. They're about traffic, which isn't weird, because the average age of our vehicles is over 17 years old. They concern construction; our buildings are not well isolated, so they spend 60% more energy than they are European standards. There are also major problems in the energy industry, so specific energy consumption per product unit is also great, which makes our products uncompetitive on the foreign market. The problems are also in municipal energy, but also serious problems in the transmission of electricity, where there are also great losses, and there is a huge problem and low cost for households and businesses, where private and businesses owe our electricity to over 32 billion dinars. It's also one of the serious losses. And as for the sphere of production, we know that our thermal power plants are quite old, the average age is over 24 years, and hydropower plants are also average age over 30 years. How do you solve these problems? I've already said the law can't solve them on its own, but it can create an institutional framework to develop mechanisms and instruments to solve problems. The energy policy objectives that this law should provide are defined in Article 4, we agreed that this was very well defined and I will repeat these objectives. So, these are safe, quality and reliable energy and energy supply, balanced energy efficiency development, fostering competitiveness in the market, improving energy efficiency in the performance of energy efficiency and energy consumption, creating conditions for investment in the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of energy facilities and connecting them, and, finally, given that energy is a major environmental pollutant, we need to create conditions for acceptable environmental pollution. This defines point 8 in Article 4, which says - creating conditions to stimulate the use of renewable energy sources and combined production of electricity and heat. Finally, it's an improvement in environmental protection. What are the instruments that provide this law? I'd limit myself to four instruments. First, the Energy Agency, as a regulatory body, brings tariff systems, regulates the market, issues and withdrawals of licences, prescribes conditions for a qualified buyer, and the activity of the energy sector is covered by members from 10 to 24 and in that part, i.e. the definition of the place and the role of the energy agency, nothing is disputed and we support these solutions. However, as regards the second instrument for the implementation of the targets I spoke about, which should solve or help solve a number of energy problems, the energy efficiency agency is concerned. We have made an objection to the solution proposed in the bill. In the proposed law, the Energy Efficiency Agency has the status of a special organisation. The agency is a high-level body that should help address many problems of inefficient consumption, production and transmission of energy in the areas of transport, industry, municipal energy, as well as electricity transmission. And also in production, where renewables and combined electricity and heat production are recommended, which is sort of a global or European hit, where electricity and heat are mainly produced in cogeneration plants. We propose, or we propose to the amendments, that the Energy Efficiency Agency has public service status, therefore, that it has a director, that it has a board of directors and a supervisory board, and we do not think that this would be a cost of such a form of organisation, because the contribution of such an organised agency would be so great that the cost of the agency and the salaries of the employees would be small and insignificant. The third instrument for achieving the objectives expected and required by the energy law is an instrument of a qualified buyer. A qualified buyer as an idea should have made it possible to liberalise the market, but the question is whether the quotas provided for by this law, that a qualified buyer who uses electricity is more than 25 gigawatts of hours, natural gas is more than 50 million meters of cubic and heat energy more than 5,000 gigajoules per year, too high, and whether not only an instrument is introduced, and in fact there is no more significant market liberalisation. Here, in the case of electricity consumption, because electricity more than 25 gigawatt hours only consume 35 consumers, if my data is correct. It's characteristic that they're weak payers. Anyway, they also, I guess, are accurate, spending about 12% of electricity a year. So the question is whether such high quotas liberalise the market enough and whether we are introducing mechanisms that will encourage our electricity producers to reduce losses and to produce more efficiently. At the same time, if the proposals of the old ministry's energy law are compared, I should say DOS's, and the esteemed colleague mentioned that earlier, in October 2003, where there is so-called. A wholesaler with electricity and natural gas, in fact the real name is an electric energy dealer and natural gas to large customers, an idea that would liberalise the market to a much greater extent. But pay attention, because we have not submitted the amendment to this proposal. We believe that the caution that went with this bill, therefore, is not liberalising the market to this extent, where our electricity producers might be at risk, because we know that ten years have not been invested in revitalisation, in repairs, or in modernisation, although it must be acknowledged that the last few years have been very much invested, and that we have, or are, but it is our national resource. So that's why I'm saying that in this area we have achieved a significant step and we have raised our energy system to a much higher level than we had in 1999 or 2000. It's undeniable and I'm not talking about it. So, a lot has been done in the last few years, but our energy sector still cannot withstand competition and that is why we understand that there is no wholesaler, or wholesaler of electricity in the bill of law. And as for natural gas, there are serious objections from professional circles, whether liberalisation should have been raised to a higher level. The fourth instrument I want to talk about today, it's a privileged electricity producer. All that I mentioned as a serious lack of our energy, therefore, that the production is inefficient, that there is little innovation, should be resolved by this instrument, by introducing a privileged electricity producer who would have the privilege of using subsidies, taxes and customs reliefs in the event that he uses renewable energy sources and waste to produce electricity and heat. Also, if it produces electricity in small power plants up to 10 megawatts, as well as in the case of combined production of electricity and heat. This instrument is very well defined, in our opinion, because it introduces world experiences, state-of-the-art technologies and the most modern principles in modern electricity and heat production. But we have a remark about determining the status of the privileged heat producer, because we think that whoever makes it easier, and that's the government, because it gives subsidies, taxes and customs reliefs, should run the register of privileged producers and give the status of privileged producers, and not that local self-government does so, so that when the debate is in particular, we will also defend these principles and these opinions. Finally, it must be said that the Energy Act does not deal with the organisation of the electricity industry, but it leaves the possibility that the Government should determine how the company is organised by its provision or regulation. In just one transitional provision of the bill, Article 171 said that the government would establish two companies. So, one in which the transmission of electricity and the system operator will be, the former Directorate for the Management of the Transfer System, and the other in which the production, distribution and sale will be. This retains the principle of a vertical organisation of electricity, which is one principle that has been accepted in Europe and is considered modern, so that it remains a vertically integrated or organised enterprise. In the end, this law closes many questions, but many questions and opens. I'll ask you some questions. First of all, will there be sufficient liberalisation of the market without wholesalers with electricity and gas? The second question – are the best estimated quotas for qualified customers? Third, what are the measures to stimulate domestic electricity producers to increase the efficiency of domestic production and to be on the electricity market most recently? Fourthly, which are the additional system measures that need, in addition to the energy law, to ensure an increase in the efficiency of the entire energy system.? Fifth - what strategy is envisaged for the privatisation of the energy sector and is not too much left to the government for decision-making? In the end, since a respected DSS colleague spoke about the law proposed by the DOS, if the proposals for the October 2003 energy law were compared, we can consider it a proposal from the DOS Ministry, and the law proposed by this ministry, we can say that the highest number of quality ideas contained in the previous law is now accepted, which is the quality of the proposed law. We have to say that there are very small differences, and that there is no wholesaler, that the status of the privileged heat producer is not determined by local self-government but by the government, it is a proposal from the DOS ministry, and the third important difference relates to the status, i.e. the way of the Agency for Energy Efficiency. So everything that's most qualitative is taken over, the differences are small, we disagreed with some deviations, and that's why we submitted amendments. I thank all those who listened to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6002	Thank you. The DSS representative, MP Vladan Jovicicic, as representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6003	Of course, those who know the EPS system, as well as the NIS, know why what contained the previous bill was thrown out, but what most often concerns and what was most often talked about in public, of course this law passed expert public assessments. I would take the opportunity to greet the Colubara miners, wish them a happy holiday, the Holy Procopy is the day of the Colubara miner. So why is there no coal? He's not here because this law treats the final story. It does not treat the process as it comes, it deals with energy, it does not deal with those processes as it occurs, it does not deal with oil processing, it does not deal with mining of coal, transport and processing in thermal power plants, so there is no concern that the miners will be surrounded by this bill, i.e. excluded from the vertically organised enterprise, as predicted by the EU directive. It leaves another space that is not mentioned in previous speeches, that the government, in addition to the vertically organised enterprise, can also decide on those companies that are isolated, i.e. on the organisation of dependent companies, given the high bulk of the electricity sector, as it is organized, provides a guarantee as founder and employees, as well as the development of these companies later and enabling them to adapt to the market. The next concern discussed here – whether this law is too liberal in relation to the situation it is in the EPS and NIS and whether we will be able to respond to the competition of a liberalised market. And in the previous speech, I said that we will be able to respond as quickly as we can to identify the organization, both vertically and within the framework of the dependent companies. How quickly we work, how quickly we get an effective EPS that will have a final product, so it will be competitive on the market. And what a previous colleague has asked as a question, other legal solutions where the energy law defines the terms of trade and prevents the right to products. Various ministries have given regulations and certain laws. In order for this to be effective and to allow us to be competitive on the market, we need to set deadlines and respect, so that the dynamics of the order of things would be to form an energy agency within three months of the adoption of this law. Six months after the adoption of this law, it must establish ways of organising energy operators to carry out energy activities, i.e. what public undertakings carried out under the applicable law. Only after 12 months of adoption of this law, the Energy Agency will bring in tariff systems, bring in a methodology for determining tariff elements, to determine prices and determine criteria and how to determine the costs of connections to systems. This will enable, hopefully, within a clear deadline and recognising the architecture of the problems in which we are, to adapt to what is required of us, and time is running out for us, given the international obligations of our country, related to the Athens Agreement. Another note regarding the speech of the previous colleague, just all these directors and boards, why you did not propose through amendment solutions even the supervisory boards. If we already have administrative boards, then we should also have supervisory committees, as predicted by the Company Act, which the government didn't apply at the time of the SAA, so now we have to regulate the rule of law, as promised in our pre-election promises, at least as far as the DSS is concerned. The agency council makes five members and their mandate is four years old. Most of all, they can be elected in their two mandates. They must have a high level of professional training, a minimum of 10 years of work experience, cannot be MPs because they account for the Assembly and also, for the sake of pure democracy and clean control, cannot be in the bodies of political organisations, political entities. Simply, the example works, Rade Obradovic, as chairman of the DSS Council, cannot be a member of the agency's council, because it is provided by law if you adopt this law. Of course, I can't be myself, not to be angry with those who are mentioned, or any of us who in this very important and sensitive moment for our country decide, but once again I would take advantage of the opportunity to wish my miners happy glory, and you fellow MPs to call on you to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6004	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6005	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since this law is the most addressed to Serbia's Elektroprivred, or production and transport of electricity, will briefly address the problems of the Elektroprivred Serbia, which it had in the period until 2001, until the DOS came into power, and in the post-2001 period, these last three and a half years. By 2001, EPS, as the largest system in the country, which has over 60,000 employees, had 23 companies in its composition, of which there were seven production companies, one for transmission, three surface digs, one underground coal exploitation and 11 distributions. A large number of employees were the ballast of one such company. The government at the time was aware of this ballast and these problems, failed to resolve it, despite some attempts to limit the reception of new workers to some norms, which is to a reasonable extent. According to these standards, which were then made, it was estimated that there were around 20,000 extra workers in the EPS at the time. The second problem, which the EPS had in that period, was the low electricity price, which averaged 25 pairs per kilowatt hour in 1997. That, compared to the average European price, was around 48% compared to that average European electricity price. And at that time, however, there was a constant request by the EPS to change the price, to increase, however, the government at the time had no hearing about it, as it asked the EPS to make maximum use of all its internal reserves and also to take care of the economic situation of Serbian citizens, who had no opportunity to pay more electricity prices. The third problem, which was dominant in that period, is the problem of the remont. In fact, due to low electricity prices, EPS was unable to allocate the funds that were sufficient for the repairs to be carried out in a quality way, so the remonts were only made in that necessary form. Of course, that had the proper consequences. The fourth problem was extremely large losses, both in the transmission and distribution network. In the transmission network, they ranged about 3%, and in distribution about 15%. Another problem, which I would point out as important for that period, was the problem of large claims by the EPS, outstanding claims, a problem that is probably still dominant in the EPS today. The EPS failed to collect all claims from consumers, both households and businesses. In 1997, these claims moved about a billion and 300 million dinars. If everything wasn't so black in the EPS, I want to eventually commend the EPS in that period before 2000, for everything he's done during NATO aggression. The EPS then proved to be a very professional, highly qualified and very professional system, which managed to eliminate the very rapid and effective consequences of NATO aggression, namely the fact that NATO aggressors in the facilities of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. How's the EPS situation today? The arrival of DOS to power in 2001 has done nothing to restructure the EPS, although there were then some announcements that it would start with the job, so some normatives were created, which estimated to have as many as 30,000 extra workers in the EPS. However, other than the extraction of underground exploitation from the EPS, nothing else has been done in this respect. The arrival of DOS to power immediately increased the price of electricity. From the average 25 pairs per kilowatt hour in 1997, there was a price moving in the next range, here is the latest notice from July 1st this year, the cheapest kilowatt hour costs 66 pairs, that's the green zone – the lower tariff, and the most expensive kilowatt hour costs 9.36 dinars, that's the red zone – the higher tariff. Of course, these are sales tax-free prices. I don't know if anyone calculated the average price that today applies in the EPS, but I believe that the average price is far above five American cents per kilowatt hour. Here, I can even document it with a Belgrade account. For 74 kilowatt hours, the bill, without sales taxes, means spent electricity plus a fixed share – 271 dinar, which means about four dinars per kilowatt hour, which is significantly more than five American cents. Despite the situation currently in place in Serbia, where the average price has been increased more than 10 times over the past three and a half years, the minister argues that the economic price has not been reached, i.e. the level of economic prices has not been reached, which means we should expect a further increase in electricity prices. All this is nice, however, these days, Belgrade's distribution was on strike and on their business building there were posters on which it reads – a strike for the robbery of the people. And they realized it was a national robbery, and that's why they went on strike. As for the remont, it should be said that the last and previous year's remounts were made in a significantly higher quality than they were before, that this was the result of donations that came during this period and loans taken from foreign financial institutions. But the question remains why we haven't carried out these repairs with our own resources, if the price is already so high. Where that money was spent, why can't we single it out for the repairs of our capacities? What has also attracted my attention is the fact that these days we have repairs in some of our facilities, that some foreign donors are present. However, in addition to the donations they sent, they also sent their auditors to control how donations are spent, which apparently speaks of the trust they have in you as the Head of the Ministry, or the complete EPS. Next thing you know, it's a matter of loss in the energy system. I ask the question to Mr. Minister, since probably, by function and nature of things, he must be aware of this – what is the level of loss today in the transmission system and distribution network? Is that level on the one I mentioned earlier, back in 1997, or are the losses reduced, which I'd like to say hello to, but I don't have that data. Also, I would like to point out that the production, despite these quality remonts made in the previous year, was slightly higher in 2003 than in 1997. The total production in 2003 was 36,000 gigawatt hours, and in 1997 it was 35,000 and 128 gigawatt hours, which means it was a very small, small increase in production, although huge funds were invested in the remonts and, as you say, the system is significantly higher. The next question is the question of outstanding claims. Last night, the minister on BK TV said that now unpaid claims from the economy and citizens, meaning households, amount to about 32 billion dinars, i.e. 16 billion and there and here. I'd like to make a comparison with that amount I mentioned in 1997, and we'll see that the real demand for EPS is now significantly higher than it was in 1997. It should also be said that the arrival of DOS has led to consumer discrimination, so that consumers in Belgrade pay spent electricity in one way and consumers in another part of Serbia in another way. For example, this is a bill paying for electricity in Belgrade. This is the account to be paid after the end of the accounting period for energy spent. So she's really wasted. In the interior, all distributions, other than Belgrade, account for energy in a different way, i.e. consumers pay an advance, so if by 15th of the month you don't pay (maybe it's changed, but before that) an advance for the next month, out of 15 is charged interest. It is discrimination that has not been present in Serbia before. Also, the arrival of DOS on the government abolished the daily tariff, so now we have only been given the opportunity to use cheaper electricity in late hours, from 24 to 7 a.m., which of course affects consumption, the consumption structure, but also affects all of us as consumers and citizens in Serbia, and of course negatively. Finally, the coming of DOS to power appeared in Serbia's energy mafia, led by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic, i.e. I-Ef-Ti, who, as we have established on the Survey Committee, illegally traded electricity in Serbia, bought, imported, exported etc. and thus damaged both the EPS and the NIS, and the state for huge amounts. Of course, we expect the authorities, which need to take certain measures, to do so. Now let me get back to the law. This law, in addition to what is positive, is a strategy for the development of energy, which is mentioned in the law, and a policy in the field of energy, in our opinion does not offer anything particularly good to Serbia. The law is quite confusing and is mainly aimed at destroying the EPS as a single technical and technological system. Perhaps, even in this congregation, it was necessary to enter first with a strategy for the development of energy and then with the law. Maybe that would be smarter and more appropriate. Let us first determine what we want to achieve in this area in the next ten and over years, only then to adapt all of this to the law. This law separates energy performance, so now we have specially separated production, processing, transmission, distribution, trade, transmission system management, distribution system management, etc. The government was left with the possibility to form two new enterprises from the existing EPS, if I understood Article 181 well. One is for transmission and the other for production, distribution and electricity trade. It's unclear how a dealer will be installed between the distributor and the buyer. In fact, Article 3 mentions, when it comes to distribution, that it is the transfer of energy through the distribution system to the supply of energy other than supply. This suggests that the distributor is not the end of the chain to the buyer and that there will be someone else between the distributor and the buyer. It's a merchant. The question arises how it will be installed if the distributor, who owns the distribution network, refuses to apply its energy transmission network. You can't carry electricity in packages or buckets. The law provides for two agencies. The Agency for Energy and Energy Efficiency. It's an old story that's repeated from DOS times, when they've only been set up by agency regulations, and now they're being set up by law, and it's essentially the same. However, Article 15 states that the energy agency is performing the tasks set out to it - as entrusted, which means entrusted by the Energy Ministry, that these transactions originally belong to the Ministry of Energy. Well, if they belong there, then why isn't the Ministry doing them, but it's transferring them to the agency, or it's setting up an agency to deal with them. As for the other agency, there used to be a Council for Rational Energy Management at the Ministry. It was the idea of some of your coalition partners from an earlier term. The Council did not give any effect, and there were also some directives dealing with these problems within the EPS, and since it was high-level business, it could still be left with the EPS Directorate, that it continues to work. I'll bring up a few specific things. Article 2 does not mention coal as energy. Last night, however, the minister tried to explain it, not to mention oil, oil is mentioned. Oil is mentioned as energy, and only coal was to be mentioned here as energy, in Article 2, where energy was defined, or should be said - along with natural gas, oil, coal was to be placed. To remind you, coal is the energy produced by 70% of electricity in Serbia. And over the next 50 years, coal will be the primary energy for electricity production. He doesn't need to be kicked out of this law so he doesn't even mention himself. It seems to me that a little more attention should be paid to article 79 of this law, namely to correct and change it. This article establishes the obligation of the owner of the property on which the energy facility is located to carry out the maintenance of that energy facility in a certain way, i.e. to remove, as it stands here: trees or other growth around the energy facility either below or above the network. If he does not, the job will be done by the owner of the energy facility, but will expose the costs to the owner of the property of the relative immovableity on which the facility is located. Please understand - in Serbia there are a large number of these objects on people's holdings over 70 years old, whose children are not here or are abandoned. Who's going to do what you're talking about in article 79? Someone may be in Canada for 20 years and isn't here at all. So far, it has not been a practice, it has been the responsibility of the owner of an energy facility and should continue to remain that way. I would ask you to intervene in this article in this way. Here, I haven't been able to finish everything, but there's going to be an opportunity to tell you more about the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6006	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, and Milovan Radovanovic will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6007	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft energy law, which is ahead of us, is somewhat different from the proposal that was on both the expert and the public and the political debate, and was on the agenda of this assembly in October 2003, and like any proposal where changes are made on the basis of a proposal that has not been applied, and changes in shortcomings, the consistency of changes is missing. And the worst is in the transitional and final provisions, which are more like an illusion or attempt to create a vision of cosmetic changes, giving a message that something that is the inevitable cut in Serbia's energy is made invisible, painless, and that something that needs to be reform, to be successful, to be popular. I, as a member of the opposition parliamentary group, should be glad that the Government, in the application of this law, will have problems and enormous ones, precisely because of the ambiguity in the transitional and final provisions, but I am not glad that we will all suffer problems, and crucially - the country's energy system. In short, for a period of 14 years and for governments between 90 and 2004, without qualifications or disqualification of governments, such or such, coalition, principled, democratic or whatever, but only as the main -- what these governments have left behind as a consequence of energy systems. First, the Republic Government in 1990-1992, or 1992-1993, will be remembered for trying to create a single energy system, but essentially the main consequence is the spillover of the resources of Elektro Vojvodina and the looting of one resource, which for various reasons worked much better than other power distributions did. Electricity is close to Belgrade and Kraljevo. The second government produced total budgetary darkness from 1993 to 1997 when it came to the country's energy system and stealing, the apparent theft of any kind of energy money. Between 1997 and 2000, the government had a huge, never-repeated difficulty with the huge damage suffered by Serbia's electricity system since the bombing, so we can't talk about anything else in this period as the government's policy in the energy system, except for something that's a damage recovery. Between 2000 and 2003, the government faced what reform governments normally face, which is like hitting a monopoly, a society that changes from one-party to the head, because one-party is the state of the spirit, not the name of the system. So when you hit a monopoly, you mobilize all those who are opposers of change into a clear resistance to change. Someone articulates it politically, someone interesting, someone unional, but in any case you have a huge mobilization of resistance to any kind of change in large systems. This government, between 2000 and 2003, has essentially brought in a better bill than this one is before us, but it is the price of will to make reforms successful, not popular, and this government will also see that it is a delusion to be able to implement reforms that will be popular with anyone. What is the essence of the bill, or accent that I want to give, when it comes to the energy law that is ahead of us. The essential question when big systems are being changed in countries like Serbia is that everyone you want to get in financial contact with, crediting, financial business, exports, imports, whatever you want, business efficiency, asks you a very simple question, which is – how much does it cost in the big system, whether it's EPS, whether it's mines, whether it's Serbia's, whatever it costs in the big system? The standard answer is that it can't be calculated. If I hear a question about how much it costs in that system, that it can't be calculated, then in my language it means that someone is messing with the money. This is the essence of the lack of the bill, which leaves the tariff system. I was a fierce critic of the tariff system when with or without "my" government, but in any case the government that will be long spoken of as the most successful government in Serbia, my government with Prime Ministers Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic was the government that also had a problem with those who resisted change, kept the tariff system. What's wrong with what's in the tariff system? Nothing's wrong. In his opening statement, Minister Naumov forgot when he was an MP what he thought about ministers who receive MPs. Unlike you, I'm equally critical of the tariff system when I support the government and I don't support the government. Presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic throws it away, forgetting he doesn't like it when he talks to him at the pay phone, but these are MPs, and the minister is inadmissible. No matter how much with Alexander Radosavljevic's message, I must convey his surprise for energy in the introduction of the energy law. So, the tariff system. When you ask how much it costs a kilowatt, the answer is – you do not know. When you ask, how much is the transmission of electricity, the answer is – you don't know. When you ask how much electricity distribution costs, the answer is – you do not know. What you get as a collection in your account is you don't know why and how much it really costs. Our proposal, with which we've had great difficulties with energy lobbys and interesting lobbys that this government and this government have, unfortunately, you're giving in to this lobby, you've given in, and we'll pay everyone a high price for giving in to this lobby, what we've been asking for is that the price of kilowatt time should be expressed as in every normal world through the price of production, the price of transmission, the price of distribution and the corresponding amount of taxes per kilowatt hour. This is how you have a situation where in Serbia, one distribution works well, one distribution collects funds and really gives its kilowatt hour at the cost of production, and another distribution does not, and then you have a directorate within the EPS that essentially spills funds between electricity distributions. An attempt to respond clearly to the final customer in any way how much it costs in the large system is necessary to be successful, as the same question is not only asked by citizens of Serbia, to whom it is most important. So, how much is my kilowatt hour, what is it that I pay you for the electricity delivered? It is much more important that the government will have to find this reasonable response to international financial institutions that insist on restructuring large systems. Whether the buyer is qualified or tariffd, it doesn't matter. At this point, he doesn't know exactly how much it costs him what Elektroprivreda is charging him. Generally, even if we gave a political note, which is the difference in energy policy between 1990 and 2001, and since 2001, it is that between 1990 and 2001 you had power shortages and there was no electricity, and after 2001 we have electricity. At least one good news. One at a time, I guess we'll get to a total of good news for citizens who use electricity. The idea of the EPS being a single system is an idea that is the fruit of an agreement between the EPS and the Government trade unions, and as such, the government's right to carry out a cosmetic change in the vertical system that is divided into two companies. What's that gonna mean for a citizen? Absolutely nothing. So, I don't care if I don't know that I'm being stolen by an Elektrovodina or by an ElectroKing. I want to know who's stealing inside the EPS and who of me, directly as a consumer, takes extra money for what's paying kilowatt hours. In Serbia, it is difficult to find someone who can first interpret the tariff system – red, blue or green, and it was done on purpose. That is why I am a huge opponent of the tariff system, to the knowledge of all previous energy ministers and their deputies, because I believe that if the price of electricity can be shown everywhere in the world through these four items – production, transmission, distribution and tax, then it can also be in Serbia. What's important is to mention for all those who are against this law, with the idea that it's a sale of electricity and that it's the creation of a monopoly, on the contrary. The lack of regulation of the market, the irregularity of the energy field is what creates monopolies. The struggle of the monopoly is the task of every reform government in this country that really wants to call itself reform. The reason why the government gave up on a public supplier or a large trader, whom I was a fierce critic, is precisely in the idea of people from the EPS that they do not need a non-profit intermediary to take over the amount of electricity at a minimum price. The idea, in itself, is good. So, if you have a public supplier who is under the control of the Assembly, and in the power of the Government, who is obliged to take over some amount of electricity for tariff buyers, as they are called here, or for consumers in general, at minimum prices and to distribute it as such, it is as an idea good, but there is no solution for the profitability of such an organisation and there is no market status in Serbia's energy system. Why am I still against the tariff system? He can't be worn technologically, what's a low-voltage network and watches around the houses. So, you have the electricity industry and the energy minister who says -- I'm giving you a super new tariff system, you're going to have cheap electricity, green, yellow, pink, as you want tariff systems in some rocks in certain parts of the day or at all. You do not have low voltage elements in your home to process at all what is your so-called generous offer of EPS, agency under article 15 or Minister of Energy indirectly. Two energies were neglected in this law, more or less. It's oil and gas, and it's totally unfair. I'll go back to talking about governments. So, I'm going to remind you of a considerable policy of fighting within a party about the NIS-refinery 1990, 1991 and 1992, where it even mattered where the seat of the company was going to be, where it's only natural for it to be the headquarters of the company in Novi Sad. The lack of law and the consequences that it will produce is that the Minister of Energy, EPS and experts know what has to be done and only your own fear prevents you from doing in one step what you propose to do with this law in three steps. It'll be a waste of time. You're just going to give wings to those who are otherwise opponents of change, so resistance to change, in reading this as hope that no change will actually be. If we now have nine power distributions or ten with Kosovo, not to mention Trepca and all that unfortunately will not be the subject in this assembly, so Kosovo power plants, and you say that of those nine you will make four, north, east, west and south... The minister throws - where is it. Unlike you, Minister, I have carefully read the law and I can quote to you what are different and similar parts. I repeat, while you were an MP, you saw the minister's behavior as inadmissible, which I understand. Weakness is a fundamental feature of people, a weakness of character. He's just a man after all. There's nothing you can do about it. So, Minister, without throwing in a talking MP. However, there is no indication of a conversation or a topic concerning the NIS-refinery of Novi Sad, therefore, what will be like a large public enterprise subject of this assembly again. For natural gas, there is no public supplier, therefore a large supplier, and there is a lack of what in the agency, when you talk about tariff systems, so what is the price of natural gas as energy, for the simple reason that you have the current situation and this should be applied to this law, regardless of what the minister claims is not in the law. You have a situation that a large number of households in Vojvodina are heating up on gas, that gas has recently been the only service to households, which is not treated as a household service but as a service to legal persons, i.e. business persons with a tax amount. It was abolished, but there remains a problem with the development of the gas network, which is the subject of the strategy, and I agree with the minister that the strategy and the problem go after the law. That's the only logical thing. Not the first strategy, then the law. Generally, the gas network building programme, maintenance of the gas network, gas network tenders, the popularization of gas as a natural energy in the population and the final answer to the question of how much it costs me as a citizen or citizen is the basic reason why there is a Ministry of Energy at all. With the desire for the Minister of Energy to co-operate with MPs with less anxiety and more energy, I hope that in the application of this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will also show the ability we do not see for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6008	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6009	I don't think I'm answering. I mean, I may not be a man, but I'm a gentleman, which Mrs. Comic can't be said to be a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-21-0.u6010	I ask the MPs and ministers to refrain from these statements and those inaccuracies about throwing and this. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 103 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragan Vuksanovic, Marko Djurisic, Snezana Lakićevic-Stojačić, Milorad Belić, Dusan Mrvos, Sava Urošević, Goran Paunović, Meho Omerović, Milovan Marković, Goran Knezevic, Slobodan Vuković, Bosko Ristic. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE ENERGETICA (principles; details) The word has a minister, Mr Naumov.
