ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8970	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the 21st item of the agenda. Before we start, let's determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have enough MPs. We continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Meho Omerovic, Zeljko Ivanji and Dragan Petrovic. We move on to the 21st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC SOCIETIONS (continuing in principle; details - 180) Yesterday, at the end of the working time, part of the MPs worked on the Committee and we have left the possibility to take part today, possibly, before we move on to amendments that are agreed in the meantime. I call First People's MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go. The Legislative Committee is in progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the proposal for a law on companies that is ahead of us must be adopted and that's why we're working on Saturdays. Yesterday, a large number of amendments submitted to this law were discussed on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad. I noticed that a number of amendments that applied only to the language regulation of the law were adopted by the representatives of the government who were on that committee, but that all those amendments which had been infested with the essence of this law, in its concept, could not be accepted. The law is quite extensive, and I could say that some members have quite broadly defined some concepts; it could have been much simpler. For example, in Article 4 which refers to the duration of a company's business life, it is said: "A company is founded indefinitely, if the founding act does not specify that the company lasts until a certain time, the occurrence of an event, or the achievement of a specific goal. "As there must be a founding act in order to establish this company, this member could be simpler and simply read: "A company is founded on an indefinite and fixed time. "Nothing further needed, it's quite clear. The founding act will specify whether or not a certain amount of time is specified. There's no need to mention it. Here, behind that, immediately Article 5, which has three positions. The first point is: "A company can carry out all the laws of the allowed activity. "Now look at the second attitude, how unnecessary it is when it comes to the law. It says: "Activities prescribed by law can only be carried out on the basis of the consent, authorisation or other act of the State authority can be carried out after obtaining that authorisation, consent or other act of the State authority. "It is perfectly logical that these permits can only be issued in a legally established manner. So I can't afford to get the opposite of the law. Therefore, this first position was sufficient, which says that the company can carry out all the legal activities. If any activities the company wishes to carry out are not lawfully permitted, then no one can even issue certificates which are subsequently requested in paragraph 2. If it carries out a law of permitted activity, then the question of confirmation is not asked, so the first attitude is quite clear to determine the whole member. This is all, in my opinion, unnecessary. Yesterday, I also asked the representatives of the government who were on the Committee to explain to me what it means to be "under the circumstances of the case", which means "the circumstances of the case". And believe me, they couldn't tell me clearly what "the circumstances of the case" were. I believe that the law is burdened with many such and similar things that are unnecessary and which can be much simpler, and this is mainly due to translation from some other languages and depending on who translated it. If I were to go like this, from member to member, it would take a long time. But where she was expected to be more precise, she's gone. Here, in Article 6, you will see, when it comes to the conditions for performance, Section 2 says: "The fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 1 is checked by the competent authority in the procedure of regular inspection supervision". It was no problem to introduce in law what authority it was. In this way, no one will feel called upon to carry out the tasks relating to the prescribed conditions of performance, but if it is correctly stated in the law that the authorities have to do, whether it is a sanitary, market-based, any other inspection that will oversee technical equipment, then it is clear. It was supposed to be introduced into the law. It was necessary to bring the law into line with those we had previously passed, above all with the Law on the Agency for the Management of the Business Register, etc. This law also makes no difference or erases the difference between the companies of a person or a company of capital, which may be a trend in Europe. Since I have explained here a law earlier, when it comes to the principle of tripartiteness, that mostly in Western European countries, it is an urgency to be the principle of multipartyism, and I see that in the light of this law, I would like the minister to confirm, not because of me, but because of other MPs. And if the ministers in the government communicate with each other, try to convince Minister Lalovic too. It should not have been so cramping to insist that, when it comes to the economic social council, it must be a tripartite body. It won't be clear to me after this, and I'd like the minister to explain to me today, not for me, but for the citizens, let's say, Bora, since I'm from Bora. In fact, RTB Bor was a company of his own, so holding it, so now he's a group, and I'd like to know what's going to happen under this law, what kind of company he's going to have. And I'd like to know, Mr. Minister, since you said in a pre-election campaign in Boro that the 30m-euro credit line for Bor (it's been a month and a half, it's 35 days), did you provide something or was it just a marketing move to defeat your candidate for the president of the municipality, who you supported? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8972	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic. Is he here? No, it's not. ) National MP Zlatan Jovanovic, is he there? No, it's not. Veroljub Arsic, please. Have Petar Jojic prepare himself, if he is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8973	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have expected more from this law, that is, the proposer of this proposal for a company law. The fact is that the current unregulated area in our business system, that current companies are organised in accordance with several laws and several regulations, and this should, therefore, be finally defined by one legal regulation and determined how they function and how they should carry out their work. But according to that people's "breathing mountain was born a mouse", the biggest problems that have ever taken place in the business of these businesses have not been resolved at all by this bill. Maybe it's only in part solved, and that's when it comes to Article 40, an individual complaint from one of the owners or shareholders. Namely, it is that one who has over 5% of the shares or management rights, or 5%, can press an individual suit for a responsible person to operate in the company. The provisions of the law, in any case, can finally be applied to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic and his partner Bogoljub Karic, in connection with the "Mobtel", which has not been winning for years. It is the only mobile telephony company in the world where zero is shown, and at the expense of state capital located in the "Mobtel", or PTT Public Enterprise. It is good that one part also solves the conflict of interest of members of the board of directors, the supervisory board of a legal person, however, through those provisions it was necessary to define which legal persons it relates. Because it is quite clear that where the founders, i.e. the owners of companies or actions of private persons, the natural person, the majority owner would never allow any conflict of interest in his company, especially if a member of his board of directors could be on the board of directors of a competing firm. This is only possible if it is owned by a state or if it is one of the owners of social capital. Speaking of social capital, there is still no solution to the status of that social capital, which and how it participates in the economy of the Republic of Serbia and has certain values and governance rights in companies. It is not possible to bypass the fact that our Constitution, as such, predicts three forms of property, which are: state, social and private property. When it is divided into legal entities, shareholders' companies or persons with limited liability, this can be applied, however, what about mixed stock companies that still exist, where, besides government capital, there are also social capital, and we even have examples of some companies operating as mixed shareholders' societies, where the ratio of capital is in favour of social capital. So, the majority owner is some kind of social imaginary capital, and if it couldn't be solved already by the Constitution, it was supposed to be regulated by this law which is the authority of that social capital, which and how it participates in economic life. The biggest regret I would have with regard to this law is the responsibility of a person who owns or is the founder of a legal person. In all the provisions of this law so far, even private entrepreneurs correspond to their assets in front of trustees that a business entrepreneur assumes or in relation to those he has to a third party. However, we are here now in a situation where a type of abuse that has been followed for years by economic developments in the Republic of Serbia, particularly since 1997, when one law has erased the possibility of legal persons with full responsibility. The full responsibility of even entrepreneurs who have to register special activity and only within the framework of this activity to work, and legal persons who can only have basic activity, which, in their later permits and allowances, can extend, have a partial responsibility. A partial responsibility, unlike total, is that a partially responsible legal person corresponds to the creditors only with his property, and the full responsibility is to match both owners and shareholders with his private property, especially if the owner and founder is the same person. These so far provisions of the law, which came into force in 1996 or 1997, have been applied since 1.1.1998, have given rights to various speculators, malversants, owners of companies in the matter of WMDs, which have no property whatsoever, to rob all other economic entities in the country and even the state itself. This law should have provided that there could be no partially responsible persons, legal persons, but only persons with full responsibility. As soon as you allow one part of the legal entities, i.e. businesses, to make certain manipulations in front of creditors, all those negative phenomena that have been happening these years will simply rush into a partially responsible person, where trustees and states would be placed in an extremely difficult position. For years, they would have to prove that they are owners, that they are writing criminal charges for abuse of their official position, that they are pacifying tax obligations arising from business with those legal entities that do not exist in fact, have double damage, and that they are potentially trying, according to the laws on income tax and corporate tax, to prove their claim to the court, at the expense of the court. Mr. Minister, such a bill and this possibility allowed you to rob all other legal entities by partially responsible persons, that is, if the founders and owners of these persons are the most common malversants, speculators, as a matter of principle, are bow-tied.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8974	The People's Messenger Radmilo Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8975	Dear MPs, we have a whole new system law in front of us that solves all economic problems, just the law of behavior in the economy. This is my personal opinion. When I read this law, it was clear to me, to me that I'm not a lawyer, and I have nothing to do with justice. Moreover, I read it as a good novel. I think the law works when ordinary people understand it. What I don't think is well done is that, as far as I remember, we adopted the Privatisation Act somewhere in June 2001, in order to adopt the Charter Act of Values and the Business Register Act, and now as part of a set of all these laws, the company law has come. I think that the period between 2001 and the end of 2004 was a very long period and that, in the absence of these laws, we had chaos in our economic system. If these laws had been passed in a shorter period, we wouldn't have stock companies formed in companies privatised under the old law, in a way that the company's director determines his obedient people to be on boards, and board members determine their own parliamentarians, and small shareholders and shareholders are nowhere to be found. When they appear in these congregations, they beat them and drive them out of the congregation. They made statutes and made some decisions that simply fit them, and certainly not to the shareholders. As a consequence of that, we have that the small shareholders who got the shares by privatizing are scared, and seeing that they have no chance of managing their actions, they're going to say dramatically to sell their actions. Any buyer to show up, they all ran to sell out their shares. This Act on Action Society solves many things. I'm not saying that the founding act will suit all shareholders, but if I am a shareholder and if most of that stock company has passed a founding act that is not my will, I will decide to sell my actions, because I simply can't find myself and if the founding act is in accordance with the law and in accordance with all the rules, it doesn't suit me, I will sell the shares and I simply won't go out with anyone to fight. Also, we are eyewitnesses, and we all know what happens to stock companies in companies that are privatised under the new law – simply, the new majority owners want even of the 30% of the actions that workers have as much value as possible. What's going on? They set up their congregations, boards outside the company’s headquarters, or if they are scheduled in the office of the company to bring security of 50 people to protect the majority owner and its board members, its members of the assembly, and small shareholders are organized and 600 of them come, they are fought in the streets and squares. If there was this law and these rules on action societies would not have come to this, because this law provides for how much printing of new actions can be done, how much capitalisation can go. But I'm not saying it's all planned. And there are rules, and there are rules, but I'm still saying that maybe some stockholder doesn't fit those rules, but if he knows that he's not responding, he's going to act with his actions in some other way. In this law, we also have something that applies to partner societies. Such a law should have been passed much earlier. It's a waste of our offices, government and NGOs, about small and medium-sized enterprises if there's no law like this. We know that people who have worked in businesses, even extremely professional people, that we have all been poor in the last 10 or 15 years and that we may not have the courage or the means to go into a new job alone. Now, with this rule of companionship, we shouldn't be afraid. We have to admit that in the last 10 or 15 years, we've all lost trust in each other, but if we have a law that regulates the rules in a social society, I don't need to doubt my partner if he's going to play me anymore. Because under this law, if my partner accidentally makes a contract that doesn't comply with the founding act, the contract is invalid. That's very important. I just don't have to worry and control my buddy what he's doing. He can't do that, because he'll know there's a founding act above the contract. What do we have now? I'm on the Privatisation Committee, and we have a problem with the contracts that the Agency has made with the customers, which have nothing to do with the Privatisation Act, which I voted for, and I still think it's a good law, but it's not applied to auction sales. Simply today, we meet with contracts that could have been written and that the Law did not exist. So they're playing somewhere. What's going on now? The contract doesn't comply with the law, and we're sending these dissatisfied people to court, where they'll be tried under the contract. So we can't use the law as an act above that contract, because the contract can be in accordance with the law, but it doesn't bear the spirit of the law at all. So I'm saying that this fact that the founding act is above the contract and the contract that is not in line with the founding act is simply void. What's good for people who have an initiative is that with this rule of companionship they can go and make small and medium-sized enterprises without any risk of being let down by a partner. What would still be good, Finance Minister Dinkic pledged tax laws would also come to facilitate tax obligations for people who establish new small businesses. So if it comes, and I hope it comes and we adopt it, it opens up a wide range of ground to create new and healthy small businesses. I'm not saying that all these companies will be successful, but let ten percent of these companies be successful, and if these three partners receive another five, six people and if we have tens of thousands of such businesses in Serbia, we will suddenly have 30,000 new jobs. I'm not going to 500 grand and a million new jobs, but I'm sure new jobs will open. I've said a lot, I don't know how much time I have, but one last thing I should suggest is that I ask the President of the Assembly, the Administrative Board and all the heads of Parliament clubs to be given part of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly relating to resolution committees of amendments and that greater powers be given to resolution committees. Not only for this law, but for everyone else, because simply in this Rules of Procedure, resolution committees don't have any authority, and I see here, and I believe that all MPs are working hard, and especially MPs of the opposition, to fix the law, and I don't think they're submitting amendments that are pointless. They're trying, they're fighting to make the law as good as they can. It is my opinion that the ministers who propose the law are also trying to jump into all possible irregularities in the law, but there is no man who will predict all of this, and that's why I think we're burning here; I don't think I'm doing it, but I see MPs who do it, burn it to be as good a law as possible, and then let the law go into effect, and we don't have almost any control over it. Those institutions and what we here, or the government, organize, agencies don't apply that law. They're working against the law. In this law, there can be many such cases where a founding act which is not in accordance with the law will be registered and approved. So, the resolution board that would follow this could cancel that registration. What would be positive is giving greater authority and rights to resolution committees and in advance warning all those who apply the law that they will be able to be punished. We know that all committees have all parliamentary groups of opposition and positions, and in the Privatisation Committee these seven, eight months I haven't heard a party discussion once before. That can be confirmed by the president and the board members. We're really in favour of helping and not having trouble privatizing, but we've come to the conclusion a lot of times that we can just push our shoulder over to cry. That is why my appeal to the President of the Assembly, the Administrative Committee and the heads of the parliamentary groups is that, if possible and if it is in accordance with the law, the resolution committees get greater powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8976	Before we continue, one announcement: a session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad will be held in a small hall at 11.30 p.m. As far as these amendments are concerned, I ask the members to attend this committee. National MP Petar Jojic is not here, Bozidar Koprivica is not here. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8977	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 of the proposed law defines the forms of companies set up. The forms of companies are the same as under the previous law. Four basic forms are foreseen, which are: a company, a command company, a limited liability society and a company of action. However, no detailed explanations and differences between a company of a person and a company of capital are given. According to the applicable law, the companies are a company and a partner company, and the companies of capital - a company with limited liability. This bill does not distinguish these two basic forms of formation and organisation of companies. Article 48 defines the concept of entrepreneurs, which is designated as a natural person self-activating. The law cites some forms of organization and mentions the old craftsmanship and their way of working and leaves it to the Ministry of Economy to define these forms of entrepreneurship more closely. However, the law does not give forms of organization of entrepreneurs, so we do not know exactly what forms entrepreneurs will be able to organize. The Entrepreneurship Act provides for the organisation of independent production activities, service activities, agencies, trade operations. The law doesn't mention them here at all. Article 55 provides for mandatory elements of the company's founding act. The law states what these are mandatory elements that the founding act must contain. These are the names and names and residences of the natural person, if the natural persons are founders of a company, or the business name and seat of the founder, if they are legal persons. In addition, it is necessary to specify the business name and seat of the partner society, the activity and labelling of the type and value of the role of the partner. According to the draft law, the law provides for the subsidiary to determine other elements of the founding act which are not provided for by the founding act itself. However, there are elements of the contract that should also be mandatory elements of the founding act, such as Decision-making of partners in society, management and compensation of management costs, profit deoba and cover the loss of society. All these elements have been omitted and, if the founding act does not cover the provisions of the draft law of Articles 58 to 72. However, we believe that these elements should be mandatory and an integral part of the founding act of a company, and less important elements could be put into law, where they would be subsidized. There is one major contradiction in Article 80(1), where a partner society ceases to exist over time or to meet the objective of establishment. So, the imperial norm is at stake. The company shall automatically cease to work if one of these two conditions is met: the expiry of the time on which the target was established or met. However, it is said in the next article 81 that the company continues to operate, despite the bans of Article 80, and if it continues to operate, it is considered that the company is founded indefinitely. These two members are in contradiction, because Article 80 has imperatively considered that the partner society has ceased to exist, and already in the next Article 81, the possibility of continuing the work of the partner society and the presumption, the assumption that the company was founded indefinitely. In the establishment of a command company, in Article 92, very similar to the establishment of a company, basic elements that must contain a founding act have been provided. The elements are the same, as regards the names and residences of the natural person, if the natural persons are the founders of the command society and the business name and head office of the founder, if they are legal persons, the business name and headquarters of the command society, and the activity of the command society and the marking of the type and value of the role of complementars. However, the founding act would also have to contain provisions on the role of the commander, since the commanders only correspond to the level of their role in the command society. It would have to determine some minimum stakes with which the commanders could enter the command company. Complementaries correspond to the entire assets of the command company and their personal property, and the commanders only correspond to the height of their role. In order to accurately determine the position and roles, the rights and obligations of the commanders, the law should provide for a minimum share which the commanders must invest to enter the command society. A similar methodology has also been applied, and Articles 96 to 99 provide for subsidiary application of the law. So, for what is not regulated by the founding act, direct law will apply. Articles 104 and 194 provide that companies with limited liability may have up to 50 founders and limited-type companies up to 100 founders. We think it's too large a number of founders. A limited-response society, by nature of things, should have a smaller number of founders. We think it was more appropriate to make it a number of up to 20 founders, because it makes more sense for them to be stock companies than for companies with limited responsibility. As for the closed-type stock companies, where it is expected to be up to 100 founders, we also think that there is too many, because it is difficult to control stakes and actions with so many founders, so there may be certain abuses or violations of laws by the founders. Article 123(2) regulates the granting of advances or loans to employees in the company to acquire shares in the company. There is little clarity as to why the founders of a limited liability company would give advances and loans to employees in order for employees to gain a share in a limited liability company. It is more logical that the founders, if they already have free resources, themselves increase their share in a limited liability society than to give advances and loans to employees so that employees can gain a share in a limited liability society. And there's a possibility of abuse when giving these loans and advances. The law also provides for companies and companies with limited responsibility to carry out their own assessment of the non-money role. We believe that, if there is a provision that increases the number of members of these companies, companies with limited liability to 50 founders and companies of closed type up to 100 founders, even if they are allowed to carry out their own assessment of the non-money role, it also leaves the possibility of certain abuses and machinations by the founders. Members of the 138th to 150th are completely unnecessaryly detailed about the convening, maintenance and stream of the civil society’s congregations and are going to the smallest details of the maintenance and the course of the meetings of the congregations. The former Article 137, paragraph 1 point 15, provides that the congregation adopts rules of procedure on its work. It is more logical that the Rules of Procedure provide for the appointment of sessions, the course of sessions, the decision-making procedure at the meetings of the assembly, rather than that of the law. Finally, Articles 450 and 451 provide for criminal provisions for offences and commercial offences of legal persons and responsible persons. For violations of legal persons, they are literally prescribed by the Law on Violations and the penalties provided for by the company's economic crime are from 10,000 dinars to three million, which we think is an extremely large amount. In accordance with Article 450(2) of the Penal Code for the business offence of a responsible person in a company ranging from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars, which is a large amount. In Article 451(1), the penalties for violations of a company range from 10,000 to millions of dinars. In the end, I think that the law in some parts is engrossed, bulky and with a lot of details, and on the other hand, it's very superficial and unspeakable somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8978	The word has been given by MP Alexander Vukic, and this is the last speaker in the principle debate, except for the president of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a law that opposition MPs cannot say belongs to the order of the bad or the worst that the government has proposed. On the contrary, there are parts that are well done, especially about the attachment, the mergers, the status changes themselves, but here we have termological problems, primarily because of the different interpretation of individual institutes, formal names in relation to how they were resolved in the Law on bankruptcy, the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. I am convinced that even the greatest experts can't manage everything, and neither can the people who should apply it, so the question is whether they will be able to fully live and survive in legal traffic. On the other hand, I will point to several problems my predecessors have not spoken of, and I think they have prepared very closely, especially the MPs of the SRS. In fact, by analysing contractual relations and all relations within a shareholder society, as foreseen by this law, we note the need to protect large shareholders. We notice the rise of high-availability censorships from 20% to 30%, allowing large shareholders to deprive different types of abuses of rights to small shareholders, to those to whom the law itself should provide greater protection, which tries through certain members, such as Article 40, and even today, and because of the citizens of Serbia should say, the state should do and do so. But you, with such great standings and other problems, where there are pre-inclusive deadlines within the relationships between shareholders – and you know that only great shareholders know exactly how and how contractual relations are used, exactly when the deadlines, with small shareholders, have less interest and more under-educated, if you want to put less shareholders in an unmatched position, in a more difficult situation than they should be in line with this law. I don't think it takes much to talk about examples of state capital, state property, a situation that's heavy and where daily damage is done. It's just enough to mention some companies like "Mobtel" where you can't protect yourself, because big shareholders eat you up, so all contracts with related companies and what the state can do about it, and now it can file a damage claim. He can press charges for damages, but still, a major shareholder stands incomparably greater powers, greater opportunities to abuse majority participation. On the other hand, I'm going to point out more to companies with partial responsibility. As for that 50-30 censorship, we disagree with that kind of change. At the same time, I have to say that we are coming to a great danger in eliminating society with complete responsibility, because we have one senseless case. You have an ordinary owner of the STR, who is fully responsible, so, with his own property... And for example, to make it clearer for the citizens, we sell, we give some goods to a limited-responsibility society, they take the money, the owner takes it, they make houses for themselves, there's no money, they never give you anything, and then what kind of problem are you in? You are in the following kind of trouble: in order to reduce the profit tax you have to go to the competent court to pay a court fee, which reaches 100,000 dinars, to prove that you tried to collect it and that you failed to charge it, so that you could have a tax reduction. It's something that's highly illogical and unacceptable. My third remark is legal-technical; apart from some parts that are very detailed and well done, somewhere, as Mr. Milajić said, there is an obvious surface. At the same time, I think that certain provisions and norms had to be contained, first of all, in sublegal acts, not in this legal act. Finally, of course, I would ask the minister, unrelated to this law, to consider in the government how and how the overall economic situation in Serbia should change and correct. Because we had a promise from the President of the Republic that he was talking about new jobs, so none of that, and more salaries and pensions, so none of that. I ask you to finally or at the most recent time come up with a strategy for Serbia's economic development, because what we saw in the draft budget is not a development budget, there is little hope and little chance for Serbia to move forward. They should offer even better laws to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I am convinced that, regardless of party membership, MPs will be able to appreciate both the good and the bad. Because, as you can see, some laws, for which we are the opposition party and we are always preparing and most amendments, we are criticizing with greater, and some with less intensity, of course, that these laws would be changed, processed, but that the government would also see where these mistakes could be corrected in any way. Of course, citizens' interest is too great, and we have a terrible problem, it's huge unemployment, huge payments and external trade deficits. There are no solutions to that. I'm asking you to work on it, to offer citizens solutions, because we haven't had them yet. We don't expect more from the President of the Republic, since he only used it in the campaign. Yeah, he's an ambassador and I congratulate the football players when after 6-0 loses 5-1, but it doesn't matter. I'm only interested in Serbia's citizens living better, and I ask you with full responsibility and on behalf of the MPs of the largest party in Serbia and the largest parliamentary group in this high house, because Serbian citizens no longer have time to wait. It doesn't mean anything to them that now you're going to introduce the concept of reorganization, which is controversial, they neither know it, nor want to enter it, nor should they be interested in it. People want to live better, to have a higher standard, and also to have the state in better shape than it is today. The most important thing is that our register stands, and the register of citizens of Serbia and the register of our country, our Serbia, is not in the best condition. So I urge you to come out before, but even after the adoption of the budget, if that happens at all, with the most concrete measures to get the country out of the severe economic and social crisis, because citizens will no longer be able to endure and there will be no political organisation, people will go out into the streets because they do not have bread to eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8980	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Yes, I'm sorry, please, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Jovan Todorovic, please. Excuse me, please, for not seeing you answer immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8981	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the time has come for MPs to work on weekends; today it's Saturday, it's possible we'll work on Sundays and holidays, and yet we're "sandless". And we certainly are, because none of us have tails, and none of us have tails. Traveling through the autumn mist for three hours, from early morning hours, from Loznica to Belgrade, I think about how many thousands of pages of material we have received these days as MPs, including the budget, and this law that is certainly one of the most important system laws, which has, no less or less, 457 members. Today is my 246th day. Soon we will celebrate Jubilee - 250, because we MPs have an obligation not only to participate in the work of this assembly but also to read laws like these, to prepare amendments, to prepare too many discussions, to bring laws and legal frameworks for those enterprises in which perhaps, after the end of the term, we cannot return. Because we're going to be over 50 years old, we're going to have more than 30 years of work, but nobody's going to need us there, because, well, we're two mandates out of our profession and out of our jobs, so who needs guys like me, who I am, among other things, am a shareholder and founder of a company from which I came here as a MP and I work, here, and in the second term. It can be done to make this story and it doesn't have much to do with the company law, but I assure you it does. So, we are authorized to regulate the legal lives of companies, so all businesses, but we are not authorized to regulate our legal status, if you want to, in terms of working relationships, because the National Assembly is not a business society, so that MPs can arrange those things and those areas of business that ordinary workers, officials, shareholders or owners of enterprises, which we define here, have. I don't know if in my next term, if I'm a candidate at all, and family members will vote me because I'm not with them. And I don't even know if those who call us cattle will get their hands on it, if they're ever running anywhere, votes from members of their family. However, this does not prevent them from earning three times the salary of MPs, in the media that are attacking us, from acknowledging the truth that even porters in better business banks have more salaries than MPs, ordinary employees in insurance companies, etc. Yes, all those we today, and these days, and weekends and longer conversations, which we set up and edit their working relationship, i.e. legal status in certain agencies, councils, etc. and up to 12 times as much as that is the case with the MPs of the people. So I've said all of this simply bitter about some of the things that are happening to us these days. Imagine - the MP has even the right to transport costs, since he is unable to sit on a can full of fuel and come to Belgrade, because he has to buy a car that and how he is amortised, he must also secure it, he must buy tires, spend oil, etc. Three hours in one direction, three hours in a second, and I just wonder if I'm a national MP or a driver whose working-law status is not regulated in this National Assembly, and there's trouble, not even letting the public do it, because imagine, you have the right to arrange everyone's territory, but not your own. And finally, to move on to some of the things that concern this law which are part of this topic, even though some who now represent the public here may be made public that there is one MP who, behold, talks off topic, and the president does not interrupt it. This law is one of the most orderly laws I have seen in four years of office. And, right to tell you, it made my job easier, because tonight I didn't have to read every single member of this bill, because I knew the so far solutions of the Company Act, which has 450 members, and this one happens to have seven more members. What's the quality of this law? It's just that it regulates what happens to us in our practical lives in companies, if you want, in companies. It simply regulates what life, even outside the legal framework, outside the legal framework, has arranged. Let's say -- the board of executives or the board of executive directors. In holding companies, in complex companies, we already had that practice de facto. We didn't have a legal framework to arrange an organization in our businesses in a way that would now be appropriate to this law, and this law, by my deep conviction, still plays an educational role for many of us who will get back from here, I hope, back to our businesses or another, provided that there are not those who are our political opponents there, and yet we are accepted to go back there. It is good that in the future, we will have the opportunity to establish a limited-responsibility society more efficiently and with much less difficulty. Five hundred euros of founding capital can be done to someone a little and much, but I am quite sure that many who deal primarily with intellectual, consulting services and some other small services, which do not require a high investment in founding capital, will allow them to resolve their working-law status, even if they are MPs. On the other hand, it shall be possible for those who decide to establish a limited liability company to have their founding role expressed in rights and assets, as well as in the work and services they will perform for that undertaking, at that price and the value agreed as contractors that establish a company with limited liability arrangements and fortifications. It all reminds me of the time in 1991 and 1992, when founding capital in enterprises was a hundred marks. We today have as a consequence that then companies, which are in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, are essentially the most efficient, flexible and, if you will, the most successful enterprises in this rural and wounded economy and economy. The parallel right here has been used up to the maximum, although it can be made to some ignorant reader that we now wanted to be smarter than the Germans, and to the Americans, and to the Austrians, which is the issue of the establishment of companies, which are essentially enterprises of the face, command and partner, regulate some other or some special laws, such as the laws on commercial societies, etc. Why is this law good? Because he made it possible for me not to spend all night reading it, because there are chapters, for example. Chapter – a limited liability company, so if a businessman is interested in it then it simply goes through one guide, through one manual on how to organise and read only the provisions relating to a limited liability society and from the beginning to the end, it is clear to him how it will be organised in the future in its company. If he's interested in a stock company, an open or closed type, which is now predicted as a new form here, he reads those provisions and is quite certain that he will have a legal framework to organise his business in the way that suits him most. I think the deadline left for adjustment is enough, two years. In some ways, it is in line with the deadline for the completion of the privatisation, and therefore the legislator has elegantly avoided the issue of social property, because the de facto on the day when privatisation is completed, and we are obliged to coordinate our acts with this law as corporate directors or owners, in fact, only with private capital in these companies and there will be no social property. This reconciled and possible disagreement between some who would say - the Constitution is broken here, because no normal in Serbia will establish a social enterprise on today or in the next 10 days. So that's my approach to things. And, in order not to make everything ideal for grade five, I have to say that there are things that kind of confuse me a little bit and I just don't know what practice is going to be in that respect. For example, a limited liability company has a Director-General or a Management Board. So he doesn't have to have a CEO, but he has to have a board of directors or not. You have two-member societies where a father and son establish a limited-responsibility society, a son has 95% capital, a father has 5%. It's a two-member society, but we oblige it to have its own assembly or board of directors, or it can be discussed in a way that the CEO of the company can, therefore, be the owner of the congregation. And finally, I'll end up here, so if there's any need, Mr. President... When it comes to a business letter, please, I think it's exaggerated here in detail, because a business operator needs to and must say how much capital is entered and how much capital of that amount is paid into that company. I assure you that we will have problems here because, as a rule, the change in capital in stock companies, companies with limited liability etc. is performed once a year and registered in the competent register of economic operators or in the competent court. Those who have come to the purchase company in the current privatisation have the right, under the Privatisation Act, to settle their obligations in wars that last up to six years. If they do so every month, then, by nature of things, by applying the provision of Article 22 of this Law, they would have to change each month the memorandum on which they write letters of business and to show how much they are now entered, i.e. the paid capital. I think it's an unnecessary burden for this law. I haven't been able to submit an amendment to this article, but I hope that in practice it will be an elastic approach, in the sense that we won't exactly pursue those who don't do it in good time and do it at least once a year, when it comes to the changes that we have to register in our business letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8982	Thank you. Is there anyone else on this base? No, I don't. ) I hereby conclude the initial search, pursuant to Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8983	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 7, and I have requested that Article 5 be deleted. I think attitude 5 is too high a part of this article, because in attitude one is already defined as how companies are founded. According to Article 1(1), "Employment companies shall be established by a founding act which has the form of a founding contract if it is established by several founders or decisions on establishment if it is established by one founder. "That's what it says in attitude one. In paragraph 5: "According to the founding act", the contract already exists, "ortacical and commandite society may also have a company partner's contract, a limited company and a company's contract with members of society, and a company's statute. "These are already acts that cannot be part of the establishment of one company, of a business person, etc., because it is already defined and quite enough in Article 1. What someone can have later is to do it on their own, in accordance with the law. It doesn't take any specific provisions to regulate this law alone. So we could've been free in Article 5 to add that he could have a labour rule, a reward rule. It's not the subject of establishment. Later, through this work, certain acts on the functioning of the company can be adopted. For these reasons, I consider Article 7’s position to be excessive and to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8984	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8985	With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention first of all to the promoter that among the many provisions that follow there are also some similar provisions. I'd just like you to look at what you wrote. That's Section Two, Section Seven. The name of the section is - Founding. So this is where the establishment of companies is regulated. If a company is established by a contract between a number of persons, regardless of which type, or by a decision of an individual, as the owner of a capital, then for these other contracts that you stated in paragraph 5, which should probably exist, the place for their regulation is not in this article. That's one thing. The second, central problem of this member and such member is that you do not have the obligation in the provisions to attach such a contract to the register and to be made available to the public. You see, you've anticipated a contract, so you're still very inaccurately listed here in attitude 5 between who and within whom: a society partner – then you're probably thinking of a partner society; limited-responsibility societies and a contract of members of society – probably when you say "members of society" you mean a limited-responsibility society; a company and a statute – look at your provision for a company, well, you almost don't have a statute provision. You have a statute provision with limited liability companies. You don't have a statute decree with a company of shareholders, you don't. So, if there are some contracts that regulate governance, management, mutual relations, at least make them mandatory as soon as they close that contract to apply it to the register, because everything that's in the register becomes public. I'm telling you that these additional contracts that they conclude can change the essence and meaning of the founding act. They can change without the third person knowing. So three remarks. This provision does not belong in the founding provisions, as other things are regulated by the current business of society. The second thing is, make sure that as soon as they close that contract, they give it to the register immediately, so that all third parties can know that such a contract exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8986	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8987	I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(6). The bill, which reads: "The founders and persons who, in accordance with this law after establishing access to the partner society, are: partners who approach the command society, complements and commanders; society with limited responsibility of the members of society and the company of shareholders. "I asked the amendment to change the word "and" between "complementaries and commanders", which connects them to community, in the word "or," because they can't be complements and commanders at the same time. So I asked for the attitude to be corrected by the way the "I" is replaced by "or." I saw that the previously submitted amendment to Article 7(6) was adopted by Mr. Minister, and the same thing was repeated in that amendment, so I think that if this amendment were to be adopted, it would be completely compatible with the already adopted amendment, not just with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8988	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment implies the erasure of Article 10 and is fully in line with the discussion on the principle of members of the SRS who believe that this law is too broadly written in some provisions, that it is not sufficiently concise. In particular, this member I propose to delete actually has the title: "Act of registration and publication in relation to third parties". I believe that it is a third party's obligation to know the registration data and to be bound by those registration data in the context of a court trial, in the context of a lawsuit, it is unnecessary to be in this text of the law, and that it might be more appropriate to find it in the Law on Liaison, possibly in the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. I leave it to the lawyers, but I find it needlessly burdensome to this law and I call on you in this way to accept this amendment in the voting day, and the Government's representative to include this member in some of the laws mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8990	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? Mr Krasic, and before that, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8991	One small reaction to the previous comment. I don't think there's any place in the Bond Relations Act for a provision like this. Given that it is not in other laws, I think at this point it should be found in the proposed law, because this is the company law and here is one indicating the form that there has to be a database in these companies on which all economic operators can rely. It would be very bad if it wasn't in any regulation, and it certainly doesn't belong in the Bonds Act. Only there would be a burden on the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8992	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8993	A few months ago, Minister, we warned you this would happen and happen. Take the Law on the Registration of Business Entities and see what's in Article 3. Article 3(1) writes "publicity", and point 2) says "trueness and security". Since that law has entered into force, we are obliged to accept what is written here. If you compare what is in Article 3 of this Act and what you have written in Article 10, then I must tell you that in this previous law it is more quality and better written, and it is the exact same matter. In Article 10, look, every provision you start with is "supposed", "supposed", "if"; and as soon as it's said "supposed", it's meant to be presumption or conjecture. Now you're giving some presumptions and conjectures here, contrary to what's in the law that was previously passed. This matter related to the assumption of accuracy and truth is already in the Law on the Registration of Business Entities and here is unnecessary. If you had listed under this "application of the provision of this law" or if you were to refer to this provision of the law, it would be all right, because there must be some connection, although these two laws by nature things have a connection. Since I've already come out here, let me tell you that it's similar to Article 11. Article 11 is already covered by the provision of Article 69. The law on the registration of economic operators, not entirely, but part of what is in Article 11 and what is in Article 69 would be a complete provision. You have to define somehow, or you're going to solve the whole area with one law, but if you go in two laws, and in the opposite way, there's a big mistake. By the time I got back, since these two members are really in a relationship, what someone's been asking to delete in point 2 of point 5 -- there's no legal capacity for all founders. I think you've accepted that, so you've put in more business skills, not just legal. The legal capacity of a natural person is acquired by birth. How one can lose his legal ability – someone dies. Take a look at these terms, look at something that these people who need to apply this law can apply, because this way I'm telling you that this law is likely to apply, but only on the basis of a series of different interpretations, to interpret what is what. How's somebody gonna... It says in this law – the company, here says – a business name. I don't want to talk any further. The Law on Registration in the Public Register says: "In the course of filing a registration, a... "and to point out exactly what is to be tolerated. If you're already making a relationship, and you're putting into the company law, then at least rewrite it, don't regulate it otherwise. You've regulated it completely differently with the company law. How will a clerk, or registrator now behave when he gets a registration? The party says - I've filed the company law, and this one says - please, according to the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, you have to deliver that, that and that. And then what? What's older? It's dangerous to change the order of laws that make up a whole, when two, three laws make up one whole and make a mistake in order. Because I'm telling you that these three laws, on bankruptcy, on the registration of economic operators and this law, will probably have to come back to the National Assembly within six months. If you're already doing something urgent, why five times the same law to consider? When the Company Law was passed, it was two years under the law. Four times the Federal Assembly held sessions to discuss the law. First draft, then remarks, then one proposal, so he's off the agenda, then the third one, and it's only the fourth time he's been brought in. Respect some procedure. This is where we get into a situation where we write amendments for everything and everything. We've written 10% of the amendments to what we really need to write. I'm afraid you've also devalued the quality of certain provisions. The second part of the law is much better than the first. (Predrag Bubalo, from the place: Remember the principle discussion and you will see what the estimates of all those present in this room are like. If those of us who think differently can't say... I was in principle discussing that we have a practice here. I also mentioned Bozovic; he said -- if 70 people raise their hands, the country is fourth. Here with 126 all done last year, everything could have been done here. And from Bodrum, and from Thessaloniki, wherever you want, everything could have been done. If that's your main argument for the quality of the law, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8994	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Krasic has already explained the amendment to Article 11. It provides for the complete erasure of this article, which regulates the futility of registration of the establishment, for the simple reason that it is already partially regulated by the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. We believe that this provision, which is almost repeated and in a law that has already been passed, would further complicate the situation and we want to simplify this law by deleting this article to be clearer, more concise and easier to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8996	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have indeed submitted to the SRS, as Mr Krasic said, much less amendments than was necessary to regulate this law. This is because the law is put on the agenda as you all know it, a few dozen points of the agenda were suddenly skipped to consider this law as an emergency procedure. Mr. Bubalo yesterday, when he spoke to the MPs of the people, said he felt that the MPs mostly praised this law, and that those critics of the law were trying very hard to find some faults of this law. Mr. Bubalo, you should have just noticed that the law was praised by those who otherwise praise you, the ones who chose you, the ones who ruled you. We of the opposition didn't praise the law, we just said that we think the law should be passed, we said what the good sides of the law are, but we also said that the law has quite a number of shortcomings, smaller or larger, and that's why you probably adopted a number of our amendments that you evaluated. Of course, it is your right, but besides that, we have other amendments, which we think are necessary to be adopted in order for the law to really be what is expected of it. You also said something that sounded quite offensive to the MPs who criticized the law. Most of the time, I was talking about the fact that this law was clearly copied, that it was mistranslated, and I even said that it was a bad translator. You then said that the objections to the writing of this law speak more of those who speak of it than of those who wrote the law. I didn't really understand why you were trying so hard to defend Mr. Vlahovic, the former minister, since he said here that he wrote the law and you didn't have any objection to it, so I realized and accepted that it did. There's one more thing I need to say to you, Mr. Minister, and it's about your statements these days that you have no intention of reviewing the privatisation. I think it's a very bad message. Of course, we are fully aware that legal certainty should finally be established in this country, but we also know, and you know perfectly well how many objections there are to privatization of many large and small enterprises. And here we talked, on the Privatisation Committee we talked about the C Market, the Book of Milos, the 7th of July from Kursumlia, the Model from Valjev, the Impi from Zemun, the "Progress" from Rakovica, and I don't know what we weren't talking about anymore, because we have established, wherever it may be, that this privatisation is either not done in accordance with the law or privatisation contract is not respected. So I think that message is very bad for some future privatisations, because it seems to me that you're giving wings to those who still think that the privatisation process can be criminalized and that only some of them benefit from that privatisation. To whose harm? At the expense of workers, to the detriment of those who are still at least in a working relationship, even if they do not receive salaries, even if they are not paid a contribution to pension insurance. That's why I don't think that message was relevant, and it's especially not good if you really think so and if you're going to do so, or if you don't. When it comes to Article 12, on which the amendment was submitted by the MP of the SRS, Stevica Dedjanski, I think it must be accepted, because in the position of Article 12(1), The bill reads: "The founders of society and other persons of obligations undertaken in connection with the establishment of a business society correspond in solidarity to their entire assets... "It's okay and there should be a point. A non-necessary supplement that says "if a contract with third parties that have claims on that basis is not different". It's inadmissible and it's impossible that a contract could contain something that wasn't prescribed by law. The contract has to be based on the law. Think about it, Mr. Minister, believe that this is indeed in an extremely good sense and in order for this provision to be legally correct. This must be deleted, because whoever makes the contract, whatever third party concludes the contract, must be exclusively in accordance with Article 12, and only to this point that we have foreseen, and this contract which would be different from that cannot exist in legal traffic is legally void and so I think you should consider and now adopt this amendment. The essence of the law doesn't change you, but it's legal for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8998	The word is Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u8999	I am starting from the end of this discussion, to say why there is a reason why the debt can be fired by means of a contract, i.e. to give up the solidarity of responsibility. We have witnessed in the past few months the great success that we have achieved in agreement with the Fiat on debt relaxation, a 72.5 per cent write down; those remaining 27.5 per cent had to be regulated by the contract and that solidarity responsibility was released, because there could be no access to the privatisation of any part. Any part of it, which is a particularly legal person, can't go, because Fiat can charge anyone. That's what we have now in internal debt. We now achieve, too, contractual or contractual relations between trustees' banks to give up solidarity, which is not at all contrary to the law if the contractual partners agree to it. It wouldn't be right if someone could willingly do something against solidarity responsibility. But if the trustee agrees, then there's no reason and I think this is really something that came out of practice and need. As far as privatisation is concerned, I've said privatisation is a priority. We need to complete it in accordance with the applicable laws that regulate that area. We have a large number of cases where the initiative came from the Privatisation and Privatization Committee, trade unions and dissatisfied small shareholders, where audits and controls are carried out. I have pointed out several times that I will not agree that control and revision is beyond privatisation, the objective of privatisation, but control and review is necessary and necessary. It is necessary in the part of whether privatisation is carried out in accordance with the law, not whether someone is satisfied with the privatisation or dissatisfied. It's something else and it's subjective interests, even if it's a union and workers, if after privatisation they feel they're not happy with new customers. Control and review, in order to respect the law, at all times and always.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9000	Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic, for the amendment of Mr Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9001	Minister, what you've been saying is not the subject of this amendment and this article. There's one thing I need to explain to you. Article 12 regulates the responsibility of the founders and other persons and has a subtitle – responsibility for the obligations before registering society. So when two people sit down to make a deal whether they're going to make a partner society, a limited-responsibility society or a stock company, they're agreeing, etc., and let the public know -- we've created a company. While they were making this company, they made certain costs for themselves, maybe they borrowed something, maybe they stayed in debt to someone who needed to provide geological research, etc. By the way, since it's already founding matter, I have to tell you that you almost have no provision on the cost of setting up. You're counting there's something in the Accounting Act. You didn't even specify what the real cost of setting up was. But let's just skip it. If I, as a third security officer, need to know that the founders are not fully responsible, because they may have concluded with a contract, then the question of what kind of a legal person I am is being involved in. So you can't change something that's standard. The founders are solid. The fact that a third party contract is going to be agreed on, so one partner is going to pay for this, and a partner of two is something else, it's a matter of contract, but he doesn't belong in this provision. When it's in this provision, it confuses me, because when I'm supposed to do business with the company that was founded, I'm going to say -- please, let me see if you have a contract with someone that you've ruled out solid responsibility. In that sense, it's our intervention. It's not our intervention that I can't contract to regulate some relationship, of course, in a manner prescribed by law. You can't rule out solidarity because someone has concluded a contract, and I - the third person, I don't know about it. This is about the cost of starting a society. The cost of establishing a society is: elaborate, market research, location security, construction, geological research, etc. You didn't specify it in this law, but you said they were brought by the founders, and they can agree that it would be a cost when society is founded, so you can put in a provision that excludes solidarity. I beg your pardon, you cannot, with one law, exclude the solidarity of the founder of any form of economic society. You can't, it's forbidden. I even think we may have had to intervene on the Legislative Committee and point out that this can't be done this way. This can be a special position in another member where freedom of face is respected, but it can't be a rule of solidarity, because I, as a third party, won't doubt. A limited-response society is formed, there are some costs before forming. If I'm the trustee for those expenses, if I can't charge from the stockholder, from article one, then I'll be with Article two. I'm telling you, in practice, there's gonna be a problem with applying this. No one will interpret him as you said. As for flag, write-offs, etc., it's not this topic, it's not the subject of this member and this law. It's something else entirely. You missed the case. As a security figure, I rely on the law, and I don't need to question whether the founders with the third party ruled out a solidarity responsibility. The question is, can a solid responsibility be excluded? I don't think solidarity responsibility can be ruled out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9002	National MP Osto Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9003	Ladies and gentlemen, since I am a member of the Privatisation Committee, I must say that I think that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation is the strongest resolution ministry in the Serbian government. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that we do not have a New Year's Minister, or since Minister Vlahovic has been replaced, we do not have a minister for economy and privatisation. Mr. Bubalo, you've been elected almost minister. We had two boards and you didn't attend any committees. I think it's your duty, as Minister of Industry and Privatisation, to at least appear on one committee. Don't be surprised that our privatisation is going badly. I've got about 100 kilos of material at home on privatization. These are all the materials that I had to read and in all these materials I see great injustices that have been done to workers of these companies. Great injustices have been done here. I noticed the biggest injustice at the Gorica Trade Company in Belgrade. The trading company was bought by a man who exercised power and sold out 40% of the capital for the first two months, to be added an annex contract to what he sold. The workers are angry, and that man is at the top of his power, and there's nothing anyone can do about it. On the board, we've come to the conclusion two or three times that this man is being treated in some other way, and he's being treated the way the Ministry will. I think this Privatisation Agency is an extended arm of the Ministry, which finishes a variety of jobs not only for people from the Ministry, but also for people close to the government and has an impact on the government. Big business ends here. In addition to the fact that the Agency is doing great masculine work, there are the biggest masculine and greatest crimes in the offices that are in the districts: in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, and I don't know where the fourth is. Gentlemen, it's a matter of crime and corruption in those offices.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9004	Mr. Ostova Stojanović, what does this have to do with this member? As far as I'm concerned, you're right, it just has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9005	I refer to the Minister's brief discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9006	The fact that the minister is here, we'll invite the minister to discuss privatisation, and now we're talking about the law. Not to come to the Committee, you must not hold the Committee when the Minister does not come, but let us not convert the Assembly to the Committee, but the Assembly to the Assembly, and the Committee to the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9007	Mr. Minister, I think the offices should have you removed. These Agency gentlemen spent two million and 700,000 dinars for fuel from January to October, 197 million for consulting houses; 504 million are the cost of the Privatisation Agency. Mr. Minister, that's how much they can't market when they sell these companies. It turns out that the agency's costs are higher than what the Agency's doing. They don't have any income, that's all from the budget. That budget will come for adoption, and we'll see. They don't have any income, they live off the budget. How many agency employees are there? Have you wondered how many employees there are and who's doing what in those agencies? Everything they've done is done by someone's orders. If we on the Privatisation Committee three times vote to break the contract and avoid it all, it means we sit on the Privatisation Committee for free. With regard to "The Model" from Valjev, we voted three times, unanimously, to break the contract; Mrs. Dabovic casts it out and gives it some benefits, eases, some deadlines, gives it a lot to go through. Obviously, he was either making money or someone influential from the government was doing these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9008	I hope the Agency Act comes as soon as possible to the Assembly's agenda, so we'll talk about agencies and directorates and teach all agencies and directors, but now let's get back to the law that's on the agenda. (National MP Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: And what is the law on the agenda? ) The Business Society Act. National MP Natasa Jovanovic is interested in what law is on the agenda, since it is not under way. To get back to it, you caused the replica, I answered you, you asked what the law was, I was obliged to inform you. We will return to the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you to return to article 12 of the company law, because it is on the agenda and the amendment tabled by the MP Stevica Dedjanski. Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so let's get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9009	Professor Angelkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9010	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9011	Why thank me, it's your official call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9012	Thank you for calling me that, but right now I'm the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9013	I want to tell you that not only me, but every MP of the SRS and how he knows what law is when on the agenda. I tried, but your indifference didn't allow you to accept it gentlemenly, as help, to throw you out of the bench which is the law on the agenda, because it seemed to me, when you interrupted your colleague Ostoj, that you weren't in the middle of what's going on here. I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it is on the post of Vice-President of the Assembly that you manage her work in the absence of the chairman. You tried to be funny that way, I'm giving you the same back. As for the MPs of the SRS, they are also understood by Minister Bubalo, not only to know what law is being proposed, but we have received information that the government has been prepared, that is to say, to accept some of our amendments. So we were right when we criticised certain provisions, and we're going to try to convince Mr. Bubal to accept some of our other very high-quality amendments in the course of the amendment debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9014	I thank Natasa Jovanovic for this contribution, and I think that's actually the point, to convince the minister to accept the amendment, and we'll talk about the Privatisation Act when it comes to the agenda. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled a series of amendments to this proposal for a law on companies. I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of Article 11. Article 13 paragraph 11 is amended as follows: "The value of a company’s assets within the meaning of this law is the total value of real and other rights acquired by a company’s stakes and business. The net value of a company’s assets is the difference between the value of its property rights and liabilities. "As property is a set of property rights, it is necessary to express the value of the property as a sum of the value of individual property rights. My fellow MPs, by submitting a series of amendments to the proposal for a law on business societies, were aimed at supplementing this law, by accepting amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to the law get a clearer form than was proposed to us, that is, the National Assembly. To that end, I see that on the Legislative Committee for one part of our amendments it is recommended that the Assembly accept them, but one part of the amendment, including this amendment that I have submitted, is not accepted by the Legislative Committee. Since this is a very important area and a very important law, I think that, based on all these facts heard by the MPs of the SRS, amendments submitted by the SRS should be accepted. In this way, this law will get a much clearer form, and it will be more precise and the shortcomings we have seen we were intended to present to Mr. Minister, and in particular we highlighted where it should change. The law is arranged, as our deputy head of the Parliament Club said, quite well, but there are parts of the law that should be arranged as we suggested to the government. I hope that Mr. Minister and the National Assembly will have in mind our exposure to this speaker, in order for this law to get the form it needs to get, because the law on economic societies is a very important law. I hope you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9016	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9017	I have to notice it's a pleasure to hear the name that suits me again. I didn't have the strength to warn the chairman, or Mr. President. I let him keep calling me an MP, but I'm pleased that you're having a session now, since you respect both my request and my language rules. (President: I thank you. ) The Democratic Party, whose representative of this amendment was Mr Bosko Ristic, submitted an amendment to Article 13th position 11 and asked for its amendment. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to listen to my amendment, for the reason we agreed that you would accept it, so I'm surprised you didn't accept it. At the consultations, we agreed that this is how we're going to propose an amendment more precisely; we were really hoping it would be accepted, but since it's not, I'm obliged to explain it here. The position of Article 13 states: "The property of society within the meaning of this law is the total value of the real and other rights that society has acquired through the roles and business. The net assets of the company make the difference between the value of its assets and liabilities. "We have suggested that this formulation, which is not clear enough for us, and I also see for the MPs of the SRS, be replaced by the wording: "The property of the society within the meaning of this law is the total financial expression of the company's right to the company which has acquired its stakes and business, reduced by the monetary expression of third parties' rights towards society. "We think that the property of society, claims, which is essentially the rights of society expressed in monetary value, i.e. passiveness, and the debts created by third parties' rights towards society would be active and we think that this formulated attitude is 11 more precise than it was given in law. I hope it's really going to be adopted, because we've talked a lot about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9018	Thank you. There's a word for Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9019	It is true that the Committee estimated that the definition of assets in the first proposal was not clear enough, and therefore Mr Aligrudic's amendment to which this clarification was made was accepted. An amendment has been adopted where it is said - the property of a society within the meaning of this article constitutes the right of property and other rights that the company has on stakes or has acquired by business. The first proposal removed that supplement, what MP Leila Ruzdic said, was net property. We think the accepted amendment is best explained and sublimated by this issue, so I don't think there's any reason... Because it's just shown that we've accepted that maybe the first proposal isn't clear enough and that the transformation has been done, I think the solution that's best at this point has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9020	I thank the Minister for the clarification. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9021	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the motioner has accepted a large number of amendments the MPs have tabled on this bill. Some 60 amendments have been accepted, which cheers me on the one hand, but the reserve remains on the other hand that the law remains unsettled. Because, given that MPs had very little time to prepare the amendments, that this proposal came somehow over the order and suddenly, there remains a reserve that many provisions would remain unscheduled, because MPs would otherwise have more time and could write a number of amendments, of course, of quality amendments, that could fix this bill. As for my amendment, he was submitted to Article 20 where I predicted that in the first position the words "domestic" would be replaced by the words "Republic of Serbia". To be clear to our viewers, Article 20(1) reads: "The business name of a company may contain the name of a domestic state or a territorial unit, as well as its coat of arms, flag and other state emblems or codes that encourage them, with the prior consent of the competent authority of the state or territorial unit. "I think the term "domestic state" itself is too raving and it's not an adequate place to use it. It is logical that it stands here - the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed this law, which applies to the Republic of Serbia, and it is quite logical that this term stands here. I must admit that the proposing representative was ready to accept this amendment, however, he was not ready to accept the second part of the amendment relating to the second position, which I had predicted to be deleted. The second position of this member states: "The business name of a company may contain the name or symbols of a foreign state or an international organisation, in accordance with the regulations of that state, or international organisation". I assumed this attitude would be erased, because I don't think it's necessary, nor does it belong here. The promoter was not prepared to accept this part of the amendment and did not accept the full amendment for it. Since I couldn't speak in principle because I was at the Committee's session, I would say in a few words that the SRS parliamentary group has been expecting six months since this government's arrival, that the draft law on changes and additions to the Privatisation Act should come on the agenda. We believe that the Privatisation Act, adopted by the previous government, the DOS government, which this assembly majority here today is also voting for, is the cause of many problems in Serbia and that this law is necessary as soon as possible to change. Only on one occasion, in this short time, will I say how many problems this law produces in practice. The company "Laminat" from Bajina Basta was sold two years ago, and this year, due to a lack of respect for the contract, the agency broke a contract with the buyer. It's been a few months since that moment. Now a court case has been initiated under the law, a dispute is being conducted before the Trade Court, but at that time no one knows who is the title of the property. Workers have opportunities and offers to start production, however, they would like to, from the Agency to be ordered not to do so. I wonder whose interest in this country is now to wait for the end of a court dispute, which can take a long time, and that, at that time, workers, 60 or 70, as many as there are, cannot make income, earn their salaries, have no income, have no basic conditions for work and life, because the law, as it is, is so radical, so formulate and predicted. I think it's about time this ministry dealt with the law. It is quite inappropriate for the Ministry to make no business for months, and now that there is finally a minister to commit to this law, to get into the process as soon as possible, to solve many issues that are controversial in that law, so that our economic operators can start doing a little better than they are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9022	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 22 refers to the use of a business name and other data in documents with a business society. I have suggested, on behalf of the SRS, that you add one very important thing to point 1 or in the first position, however you wish, to place "and the parent number of the organisation responsible for statistics affairs" after the word "number of registrations of society". In fact, you know that the order was, and it was waiting for you when you were elected Minister of Business, that after the Company Registration Act... It is in the light of the amendments that it is necessary to comply with the existing legal rules; certain provisions are laid down which, therefore, concern this law and therefore need to be put in place by the home number of the organisation responsible for statistics affairs. The Republic Bureau of Statistics is someone who runs that register. I must warn you, as well as all MPs whom I propose to accept in the voting day this amendment, that it is not only technical in nature, but indeed in order to comply with the Company Registration Act, because a legal person, i.e. a society, has a home number at the Institute as we citizens have our birth birth numbers. That is why earlier laws have introduced a tax identification number, and if you would accept this amendment, that would have been complemented. Any possibility of abuse would be eliminated. And, as for everyone there is this unique, special tax identification number, which is now easily verifiable and there can be no more machinations and abuses, the same case would be if you accepted this amendment. There would be this registration number and, therefore, much improvement in the law, and then that would follow with these other amendments. Now, in that sense, you might think it's just technical, but it really isn't. It's very important, if you want to pass the law, to eliminate these abuses, to do so in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9024	There's a word for Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9025	A particular acceptance of this amendment is not necessary because the registration number is intended to be identical to the parent number. In fact, it's going to be one number, and only then would they be burdened, and that will be from the new year, when business registers work. So, by registering it itself, it's going to be one unique number, both parent and registration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9026	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9027	We have tried this amendment to edit Article 25 relating to the representation and authority of MPs; not to enter into which society it represents. In the first part of this amendment, we ask that paragraph 3 be deleted, and you see, in paragraph 3, you wrote that "limits of the powers laid down in paragraph 1 of this article... "; these are some restrictions that exist for the MPs, perhaps related to jobs and the value of jobs or something else, it doesn't matter, but these restrictions exist, whether in the founding act, whether in the statutes, whether in any other act, it doesn't matter to this member either. But the important thing is that there are certain restrictions with the legal representative of a company. You see, these restrictions are recorded by an authorised person, to use that old terminology. You're now saying here in paragraph 3: "The restrictions on the powers of the first member of this company's position cannot be highlighted by the company's third parties... "This means that in the event of a dispute, a company cannot be called upon to exceed its powers unless it proves that a third party knew about these restrictions or, under the circumstances of the case, had to know about them. Something like that can't stand in the law. If a person is registered in the register as a representative of a firm and the company is represented by a legal business, why are you now bound by the right of the other Contracting Party to overrule the authority of a company represented by a company? Why? If I have seen in the registry that Janko Jankovic is authorized to represent him, I have concluded the contract with him, the agreement between the two companies has been reached. What am I supposed to know about his limitations now? In that sense, a good attitude is 5. I must commend that, but only the first two lines: "Published data regarding persons who are authorised to represent society commit society and when there are irregularities in their choice. "That means even when the election dispute is, you know, so the court enrolls one thing, so it's not, the other one isn't. No, this is good. Anyone who was registered in the register that was authorized, his signature means that the firm took over. That's good, but this rest, that's that inaccuracies in our amendment. You've seen the inaccuracy in our amendment regarding this second sentence. What we wanted in the second part is for this behind the point "and third parties can call on that as well". In this, among other things, a whole series of our remarks are being looked at that says that you are not protecting a security trustee; if he knew, if he had to know, if he could have known. As it stands in Section 3, he must have known about them. How do I have to know who's representing some company and what its powers are? Why do I need to know that? Why are you protecting society through a trustee? What you've listed in attitude 3 and this in paragraph 5 behind the decimal point, this "a..." "and so on, it's more material for material responsibility, so it's a crime of some person's responsibility. In that sense, you don't provide protection to a secure trustee. What would I have to know? If for every legal job, for every commercial contract that one firm wants to conclude with another company, the firm has an obligation to go to the register first, to check everything, and only then to conclude the contract, then this law is not in the sense of speeding up the business of goods traffic, but in terms of stifling the business of legal traffic. Because now every trustee should have extra protection. I don't know, it's like you made this for some law firm, some consulting houses that need to be evaluated. I'm going to tell you in particular in the part where someone comes to the conclusion. Well, why the emotional state of one person as it comes to the conclusion you enter into the law and that rules out his responsibility. You have many provisions where an analysis, some state, some agency service appears as a condition, so the paper that exists is off responsibility. In Articles 31, 32, 33, etc., where we also included, that's similar. In that sense I tell you – the trustee does not enjoy protection, for these courts will hardly interpret it. They will always take this because this is a special law in relation to the Law on Bond Relations and it derivates certain provisions of the Law on Bond Relations, which is not good. It's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9028	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? Minister Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9029	I have only one little doubt, because I assumed that when an amendment is adopted and it is announced that it has become an integral part of the text, MPs have this amendment, that it is really an integral part of the text, not that we are going back to the first text. It is this attitude that this member also adopted an amendment that has resolved many of the questions that Mr Krasic has now raised. It means that there was hearing, that it was said that it wasn't precise enough at the beginning, that it might leave some volunteerism and that's why the amendment to that article was accepted. I have one clue, do we need to go back to the first text or the text that was changed by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9030	Okay, can we get to the next one? The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 26. Proposal for a company law. Otherwise, this article 26 defines the concept of prosecution in this bill. In the first position of the Prosecution, I quote: "the legal form of authority by which a company of economics empowers one or more persons to any kind of legal affairs, judicial and non-judicial, at the expense of that society". With my proposal for an amendment, there is a correction of this law, so that the words "to any kind of legal affairs, judicial and non-judicial" are replaced by the words "to conclude contracts and do legal transactions and actions in relation to the activity of the company". I think this is my solution that I have proposed by amendment more precisely and more clearly defines the first position of Article 26 of this bill. Furthermore, in paragraph 3: "The Prosecution shall not authorise the conclusion of the business of alienation or of the burden of immovableity, unless such authorisation is specifically and explicitly given in the prosecution. "I believe that this too is not well defined, so I suggest that this position of Article 26 be changed and that it reads: "The prosecution does not have the authority to conclude contracts relating to alienation and burden of immovableity. The prosecution's powers cannot be limited and the prosecution cannot be given for a certain period of time, nor can it be bound by certain conditions." And the last remark is to point 4 which reads: "The restrictions on the authority of the procurator have no effect on third parties, unless the company proves that the third party knows about these restrictions or could have known about them". I suggest that the words "unless a company company proves that a third party knows about these restrictions or could have known about them" are amended in this bill. The prosecution should only be limited to the power to conclude contracts and to take those transactions from the ordinary activities of the company. Therefore, it should be within the limits of commercial and other transactions, and only exceptionally can it cover the activities of high value assets, as stated in the Article 3. It should not mean the usual power of attorney granted on the basis of and under the authority of a legal representative or if it arises from the general act of a company. You don't know why a third person should know about the restrictions of a prosecutor. I guess this is a question of company and procurators, and this is already explained by Mr Krasic; I think that by accepting this amendment, the concept of procurator in Article 26 of this bill would be more precisely defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9032	Minister Bubalo, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9033	Unfortunately, we have an absurd situation here. Mr Kragovic has indeed offered an amendment solution that may in the first part explain the prosecution more precisely than was given in the bill. However, the reason for the amendment as a whole was rejected is because the part relating to attitude 4. He explained such a thing – this should be left out, not saying what a better solution is, etc., so that was the reason and the amendment was not comprehensive. Otherwise, in the first two attitudes, it might indeed be possible to accept an clarification in the sense that MP Kragovic performed. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the post: Why didn't the Ministry react? Because it's a very short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9034	The word is Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9035	For the sake of clarification, I accept that Mr. Minister accepts the amendments in paragraphs 1 and 3, and Section 4, since he considers it unacceptable, let him leave out; these amendments in paragraphs 1 and 3 should be accepted because they would complete this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9036	I think that if we want to get out of this, only People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic can make amends and give up item 3. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the post: The minister can. ) The minister cannot, only the MP Ljubomir Kragovic can make amends. Otherwise, he can't. Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9037	I don't know what form you're going to solve this in, and how you're going to solve this, but your concept of the prosecution is too wide, and it can be a perfectly legal way to pass the shareholders, past the members of a limited-responsibility society, and then the shareholders and members find out later that it happened. When the Company Act was adopted in 1996, there was a limited view of the prosecution, that it was a relatively permanent authority given to a person from society or outside society, so that in the business of society, which is primarily commercial business, it could be commercial travellers and those working in some remote parts of a company, that they could quickly and efficiently conclude contracts. The prosecution is in a position to speed up the operations of goods transport, not as a hindrance to legal traffic operations. And she, if I can use that layman's termology, goes a little bit more to commercial affairs than to real estate and assets. You probably accept that this "judgment and extrajudicial affairs" should be thrown out, because it is too broad a formulation, but what stands in paragraph 4 of the sentence's point of view is good – restrictions on the authority of the prosecutor do not have facts according to the third person. You're protecting the third person. A third person doesn't have to get into how much authority the DA is. Everything the procurator does binds the one who gave him the DA. If he abused the prosecution, you are now saying - unless the company proves (and every society has an interest in proving) that a third party knows about these restrictions or could have (again) known about them. That would mean about now, like, procuring and a business partner agree to do something, some crime, abuse this prosecution, over the authority of a legal deal, this third party knew about it, but it was a matter of criminal law. Why do you exclude the responsibility of a company? The company was responsible for not keeping an eye on the procurator. I'm not telling you this because of these specific faces, the procurators and the one who was involved with him, I'm telling you this because of the third security guard and this shareholder who can understand at one point, there is no, no, capital doesn't exist, has the procurator, who he is, far from the firm, no one controls him, no one knows what it is. So, not this face, but someone else, third, fourth, fifth, sixth face is played. Procurator gets a nice grip, leaves abroad, gets the job done. Please, these are the basic remarks, where there is no protection of security trustees, where there is no protection of shareholders. If every business man has to call the business register, see what's written down, as it's written down, then I have to tell you -- and let him do some work within the limits of authority, he can disfigure the company. Procurator, director of the social firm. Who do they answer to? Individuals? There's a lot of people who can save their lives. What do social firm executives do? They're using the social firm for their own personal wealth. They're no different from the DA at all. Who controls their authority? The procurator could be even worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9038	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this institute was taken over by Roman law and in the Roman state it was the procurator, the procurator of some province, and in the capitalist states of Europe it was the attorney in litigation or representative of some monastic order at the Pope. This amendment, tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, is now relying even on the provisions of Roman law, as did the European Union's countries. It is a particular authority that the owner, the principle of a company, empowers someone to conclude legal transactions on his behalf and on his behalf. They have similar powers for certain tasks and right of signatures in certain countries and high-ranking banks and insurance companies. I wanted to remind you that this is a provision and content from Italian i.e. from Roman law and once again to say that this has actually been taken over by many European Union countries. The amendment of MP Ljubomir Kragovic, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly in line with the provisions and regulations that have been taken over from Roman law. It has a basis and should be accepted and therefore I propose that the Minister accept this amendment, because it will be effective in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9040	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9041	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, because of your information, and more because of the information of the Serbian public, the SRS MPs are both at the club and individually for each bill, for every legal concept that is passed before the National Assembly very seriously prepared and the result is this many amendments for each bill. The worse the bill is, the bigger the number of amendments, because that's how we try to imitate that bill and, above all, bring it to that extent to be acceptable and applicable in practice. Before this bill, we had a bill that, despite so many amendments, would be a decoration for the window of the minister who proposed it. Unlike that proposal, this bill is less bad and therefore fewer amendments from the SRS parliamentary club have arrived. Depending on the Council of Ministers, a number of amendments are accepted or not accepted. I can say that a large number of amendments to the SRS have been accepted and that will greatly improve this bill. I have submitted an amendment to Article 32 of the Law. The text of the law of Article 32 reads: "The person of Article 31(1) of this law is obliged to carry out their tasks in a safe manner, with the attention of a good businessman, in a reasonable belief that they act in the best interests of a company. "I asked my amendment to delete points 2 and 3 of this article, because it is unclear why the law should say that a person will draw conclusions. Article 2 states: "The person in Article 1 is obliged to base their assessment on information and opinions of persons who are experts in the relevant area who believe that they are safe and competent in this regard." Who's going to be consulted by someone who runs the firm, and this is about a private firm, rather than someone he trusts and who's safe and competent. Paragraph 3 of this Article reads: "The persons acting in accordance with the positions of 1 and 2 of this Article shall not be liable for the damage caused by such an assessment for a company". It is absolutely unnecessary for these two statutes to be applicable, and if the minister had a little more time to read these amendments, he would surely have accepted this amendment as well. I now suggest that he accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9042	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9043	I actually went out to support this amendment for one very simple reason. Above Article 32, there is a title – Attention and the rule of business assessment. The position of the 1st member states that the persons of Article 31st position of this law are obliged to carry out their tasks in a secure manner, with the attention of a good businessman, in a reasonable belief that they act in the best interests of the company. This "reasonable belief to act in the best interests of a company" is already enough letting a man think for himself about what he will do, and the next two attitudes are absolutely unnecessary. They are unnecessary for the simple reason that you force individuals to form their own opinions. After you've worked out completely unnecessaryly, not to use an expression that would be more appropriate. In particular, attitude 3, which then cancels all of this which you tried to allow – "is not responsible for the damage caused by such an assessment for the company". Then why was attitude 2 needed if you did it afterwards? If these two attitudes were deleted, the first attitude would be sufficient to explain what is found in Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9044	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Igor Mirovic submitted to the 34th amendment. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment to Article 37. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 39th amendment. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 40th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41. Proposal for a company law, in which it is said: "Command society commander, member of a limited liability company or shareholder of a shareholder company, shall have the right to file an action on their behalf and, for the sake of the company, against any person referred to in Article 31. ... "I suggested that this "against any face" be deleted and remain "against the persons of Article 31", which is quite understandable and economical. I suggested that Article 41 of Section 5 should be deleted completely, and Section 5 reads: "The procedure under the derivative suit cannot be terminated by the out-of-court procedure". At least two reasons why this Article 41 position should be deleted. This attitude 5 is completely pointless. The proceedings under the derivative suit shall be followed by the owners of the shares or shares on their behalf and for the account of the company. This process can also end with an out-of-court settlement, as it does not affect the powers of others who have actions or interests and do not even touch the rights of the company’s authorities. The second reason why this position should be deleted is that the derivative action means that the proceedings are initiated before an authorised court and if the company receives satisfaction from the person referred to in Article 31 of this Act, that is, those persons are obliged to fulfil a certain obligation and, if it is fulfilled, it is considered that there will be no extrajudicial settlement, i.e. there is no need to initiate the procedure, and if it is initiated, it should be terminated. I hope that this amendment will be accepted in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9046	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9047	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the company law is certainly one of the most important laws. The fact is that it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia. However, my general remark refers to the speed that the proposer with this bill went to the National Assembly. This is seen by a large number of amendments submitted by all parliamentary groups and even by parliamentary groups of parties forming the ruling coalition. There's been a lot of technical amendments to the law. Given the scale of this law, it could have given a little more time to the MPs, but what's there is, we have to work on the agenda. On the other hand, it looks forward to the fact that the resolution committees and ministers, as an authorised proposing representative, have accepted a large number of amendments to the SRS, which are heading towards improving this law and towards its better application. As far as the amendment is concerned, I have submitted an amendment to Article 48. It refers to a part of the law that regulates the basic questions of the status of entrepreneurs, of the concept, through registration of the founding act, responsibilities etc. In particular, it reads: Article 48 paragraph 1 changes and reads: "The entrepreneur, in the sense of this law, is a natural person who has been registered for the purpose of obtaining... ", this is the key word of my amendment - registering..." that, in the light of their occupation, they will carry out the law of legal activity, including artistic and old crafts and domestic activities. "What is the essence of this amendment? You know, a physical face isn't an object that's subject to registration. A physical face, like a physical face, cannot be registered. In order for a natural person to obtain the economic status of entrepreneurs, it is necessary to register its activity. The essence of my amendment is that it has to register action. What, according to this proposal, can happen? A natural person can be registered in the MUP as a criminal, but it does not give him the legal status of entrepreneurs. Registration of a natural person is in itself pointless and absurd. So in order for a natural person to gain the economic status of entrepreneurs, he has to register his activity. I think that by accepting this amendment, this article would be fully specified and I appeal to the minister, as the proposed representative, to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9048	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the amendment submitted by our People's MP, which he spoke of, but I would only draw the speaker's attention to Article 45. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 45. The bill, you have one norm that is absolutely undefined, undefined, comprehensive, incomprehensible and will not be in practice possible to be accepted, nor to be applied. If there is a disputed relationship in front of the court, I would like to suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pay attention, and I believe that you see this: "The persons convicted of certain crimes in the field of economy and official duty... ". Twenty-six crimes are in the head that regulates the substance of criminal liability in the area of crime, provided in the head against the economy. You have about 14 crimes there that are against official duty. So, a large number of crimes are at stake. It is not specified which crimes, if committed, will be an obstacle to him doing the work and which will result in his legislator banning him from working in the economy. That's all I wanted to point to. This is a big problem, and this is practically not going to be applied. Anyone to turn to the court, related to this member and to these provisions, to be called, the court will ask him - please, order or criminal charges, or you will arrange, but specify which criminal act is appropriate, so that he will not be able to perform this duty. This will be a serious problem in practice and will not be easy to apply. That's why I think the proposer should consider this proposed norm, for these reasons, because it's an undefined norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9050	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of this law. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9051	Ladies and gentlemen, when explaining the amendments to the SRS MPs, I mostly like to sit down with the minister. That is why I would like to warn the chairman that he is not warning me, because today he has done this to some of the MPs, since in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, there is no limit to the Members of the People's Parliament at all to what it is to say in the interpretation of the amendments. The MP clarifies an amendment aimed at convincing the minister that, as a representative of the government, the amendment accepts or convinces the assembly majority to accept the amendment. Therefore, my five minutes allowed by article 137, all five minutes I can speak, today is Saturday, because it may seem to me to be enough of a minister or a congregation majority to accept this amendment. Therefore, Mr. Angelkovic, I did not intervene in the Rules of Procedure when you warned Mr. Ostoj and tried to divert his discussion and so I ask you not to do so in the future. The amendment of fellow Members Milovan Radovanovic is indeed, in my opinion and in the opinion of all MPs of the SRS Group, very meaningful and very legally justified. I don't think there's any reason for this amendment not to be adopted. What's this about, Article 53? In point 1. The draft law, which has been amended, states that the company, within the meaning of this law, is a company established by two or more natural and/or legal persons as a partner of the company in order to carry out certain activities. We think this "and/or" should be deleted, because it seems to me that there is no known existence of a company of legal persons. The company of friends is a society of natural persons. In the view of the 3rd of this article, it states that the partners of the company are responsible in solidarity for all the obligations of the society, and that of their entire assets, if it is not otherwise agreed with the trustee. We believe that "if this is not otherwise agreed with the trustee" should be deleted, because, in accordance with the SRS's position, which my colleagues and I have spoken about, and also the laws that the government is proposing, we do not think that the possibility should be left in law, when the law is applied, for its abuses. This possibility certainly exists here, because if a company corresponds to its entire assets, and that's okay, then it means that the partners are also solidly accountable for the obligations of the company as well as their entire assets, and that's fine, because that's what you predicted, but then with a particular trustee you can conclude a contract, as you said, if it's not otherwise agreed, it can be arranged differently with the trustee. Then they put themselves in an unequal position of different trustees, if there are more and most of them are more, and then one of the members of that fellow society can extend one trustee for some of his known reasons and lead to an unequal position of another trustee who may be left without his property. You know, in practice, we've had a lot of cases like this and we shouldn't... No matter what the minister said here, he tried to correct what I said, when it comes to privatisation; he gave some kind of a different statement, not the way the paper was transmitted, and then today Mr. Minister reiterated that privatisation is his priority, which we also accept. He said and repeated several times that his priority is fast and efficient privatisation, which we also accept, but every time, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you accidentally or intentionally leave out that -- and fair privatisation. So, privatisation - fast, efficient, but also fair. Maybe -- based on the law, and then it means fair. You know well that it can also be based on law, because when we have laws like this that can be interpreted in one way or another, they have certain holes, popularly named, in law, then law enforcement doesn't always have to mean fair privatisation. That's why I wanted to distract you and just ask you if you've been accidentally missed or conscious, I hope by accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9052	I thank the People's MP Verica Radeti, you've exceeded 50 seconds of time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. (The Belief of Radet, from the scene: Does that mean that you have violated the Rules of Procedure? No, I didn't want to warn you, because I was counting on you that time, I refused you a time when you warned me of the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and in article 59, it says very precisely that the speaker must adhere to the agenda and that the chairman is obliged to warn him when he breaks that agenda. You've spent a lot more time talking about life at all. National MP Petar Jojic on the agenda amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment submitted by Mr. Milovan Radovanovic is in any case effective and should be accepted. I would point out that in the definition of this article and the proposal for this norm, this should also have been added: "or which arises", therefore, that society, well – which appears in business and legal traffic. This provision has just been accepted in the EU countries, so the company that appears in business transport and which appears in legal traffic. So much as a note, but it was my goal to support this amendment and to propose to the Minister that the amendment should consider and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9054	National MP Branislav Rankic submitted to the 55th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 55, point 1), I have tabled an amendment relying on an amendment to Article 53. In the first position of article 55, he writes – the full name and residence of all natural persons of the partners and the business name and the seat of the legal person of each partner. So, the amendment stipulates that this "and the business name and seat of the legal person of each partner" is deleted (it is a founding act), and why? Because the SRS really thinks that social society should make exclusively natural persons. We have not intervened on any of these amendments to Article 92, where the founding act of the command society is regulated, or on any other members describing the founding acts of society with limited liability or of a shareholder society, we have only done so in this article concerning the company. Although the amendment was discussed yesterday at the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, the reason for the government's representatives was that there was this way in the world of connecting legal persons to a social society. I asked if they had one example. The government had no representatives, he had a fellow MP, but that's not the point. We still think that what they have, when it comes to connecting legal persons, is not a partner society. Classic partner societies are still just connecting individuals. Legal persons, in this sense, engaged in business activities, are already designated as one of these forms of society. Thus, if the founding act is already defined as one of the forms of companies, they are thus a person and each other's integration is regulated in the fifth part, as regards the integration of companies and persons. If one company is already defined as a company by its founding act, it has an interest above all to connect with some other persons, and no other legal persons have any interest in connecting with other natural persons to create a partner society. All those other legal entities that are not engaged in business activities will have an interest in making an individual with another natural person a company that will represent a company. We have not intervened in any further form of companies on this issue, because we believe that all other societies, and limited liability societies, and a command company and a company, can have such a form in the founding act. But it would really be good for the Ministry to accept this, and that partner societies remain what they were until now, to be connected by a founding act and to form natural persons by it, because that's the only thing that's going to make a difference. If this provision is present with companies, companies with limited liability, command and stock companies, then what is the difference between all these societies? The difference is in shades and it's not enough, so it can be considered unnecessary. Here, so much, I would like you to accept this amendment, and it is based on an amendment to Article 53. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9056	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Here you go, Minister Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9057	Here, I want to say something about both the previous amendment and this, and the amendments that are in this chapter. The amendments are not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution in the provisions of this law, which relate to a company of partner and command, is to transpose the comparative practice of other legislation, as well as to align with European Union directives. Legal science and practices in the developed world have gone a step further. It is true that we in the Company Act had precisely this kind of division of societies into societies of persons, societies of capital, but modern legal science went one step further, wipes out that border and knows four forms of companies. It's--it's a partner, command company, a limited-responsibility company, and a stock company. I don't think anything big is lost, because the difference between what we knew as a face society... It still corresponds to total assets. We know about the responsibility of capital companies. We must follow what is happening if we have already said that one of the principles on which this law is based is the principle of compatibility of legal norms, and here we now have in the modern world known examples of fusion, i.e. the creation of a partnership between legal persons and large multinational companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9058	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to article 55? Excuse me, I repeat the question, when it comes to the amendment to Article 55, does anyone else want to talk? No, I don't. So you were talking about that member. Oh, here you go, replica. I'm sorry. I didn't get it. I thought you wanted to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9059	Mr. Minister, you see what this is all about. You said some multinational companies are starting partner companies. I was talking about the fact that these companies are already in their founding act, so one form of companies and their integration is resolved by this law in the fifth part, which is about linking companies, because none of these multinational companies are some legal person who is not engaged but in business activities and which is essentially not a company. And, if such companies connect with each other, it is regulated whether they are linked through companies related to capital or to a contract, or mixed with both contract and capital; depending on this, they will form some of this, whether it will be a concert, holding or a group. Therefore, give an example of a legal person who has not already been registered as a company in one of these four forms, who has been associated with another and made a company. There's no such example. It's the second thing that connects the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9060	Thank you for the clarification. Allow me, by the way of the Rules of Procedure, to consult together. Please, I hope you're letting me use my right to the Rules of Procedure and I'm not giving that hour a break right now, because among the remaining amendments there are 20 amendments that have not been accepted. Everyone else is accepted, that you are not concerned with this number of amendments, so it would be correct for each other, hopefully, to continue and end the work by speaking individually about the amendments. Thank you for understanding. Anyone else want to talk about an amendment to article 55? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milica Gavrilovic submitted to the 76th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 90th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9061	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 90 in which I request that attitude 1 be changed and that it reads: "The company is a company established by a contract of two or more persons for the performance of a common business name, of which at least one person corresponds to an unlimited solidarity for the obligations of society (hereinafter referred to as complementar), and the risk of at least one person is limited to the amount of the contracted role (hereinafter referred to as "commander")". After Article 1, the new position 2 is added, which reads: "Completionary can only be a physical person, and the commander can be a natural and legal person". So far, attitudes 2 and 3 become new points 3 and 4. The reason for this amendment is that we believe that this changes the concept of a command society because the bill contains the wrong definition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9062	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9063	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 92. The proposal for a law on companies, where in point 1) of point 1, after the word "physical person" the words "complementary and commander" are added, and the words "complementaries i" are deleted. Although it seems more like a grammatical error here, I think that by adding these words and how it regulates the situation when it comes to the mere relationship between complementars and commanders, because jobs are done by complements and supervision is done by commanders. More than once, however, privatisation has been discussed here. I am a member of the Committee, and I would like to draw this opportunity to draw Mr. Bubal's attention that I have applied several times, we have officially made an appeal to our RTS and to the local televisions of the Republic of Serbia to educate the population on this matter. So, of course, this law itself is very good and has arrived at the right time, although the Privatisation Act will have to come into procedure to amend and supplement, especially in the post-privatization process. I want this opportunity to take advantage of the situation, of reporting on this amendment, of you to appeal to our Serbian Radio-Television and local television to take into account the education of the population, because many workers in our companies are miserable and are on the streets, without work, deceived by many former tycoons, in the previous system and this present one, so I would ask you to take this opportunity very seriously into this process. So we MPs have studied this law well and it is clear that this void is now, in this part of the law, filled. I believe that here this law, that I don't praise it very much, that a lot of things are regulated, so, about the establishment of the societies themselves, just the procedure and the sanctions themselves, the punishments over all of this, etc. It is necessary for our people to be educated in this sense, to get to know themselves, that people themselves, workers know in what way to join together; simply, if there is even the possibility that through the press there is a citizen, that people would get into the privatisation itself more easily and more securely, and we know that a large number of businesses still exist, especially when the mention of "Knjiz" and many strong companies that are still in the privatisation process, so that the workers themselves would have precise guidelines in this direction. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9064	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic to Article 98. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic to Article 104. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9065	Very short. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment refers to the fourth position in Article 104, where it is said that a limited-responsibility society can have up to 50 members. The amendment was proposed to have a maximum of 30 members. It's because of the business activities that are in our society, it's more appropriate this time and this moment. We don't know what's going to happen in the future, but it's likely that this law and some provisions will change. This is more because of attitude 5, which says that if this number increases above 50, and if that number is held over a period of more than a year, such a society will become a form of a closed company. We think that once more than 30 members cross over, they should move into some form of business society, a closed stock company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9066	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the government's representative in the work so far has shown that the amendments to the SRS have been in place and logical. I express my gratitude for being accepted in this number. What I'd like to talk about now concerns minimum founding capital and refers to limited liability societies. When it comes to attitude 1, I think everyone agreed that the founding stake should be 500 euros, a much smaller amount compared to previous legislation. In fact, when these laws change, there are always some new figures. I believe that here we have achieved one consensus that, in order to open up companies, that is to say, to open companies with limited liability, this amount should be as large as in point 1. However, paragraph 2 provides for exemptions from this, which is that a special law for the establishment of financial and insurance organisations and companies operating under the law of certain activities as limited liability companies can determine greater minimum founding capital. I also consider this provision quite solid, provided that "financial and insurance organisations" are deleted. Here's why. If we single out companies with limited liability, it is clear that according to the classification of the activity, this provision has an excuse, because given the activities that a limited liability company can carry out, it is justified that the founding capital is greater. However, we cannot say that financial and insurance organisations should participate in all this. First of all, I'm thinking about banks, savings and other insurance houses. When we see the structure of their jobs, the structure of their activities, we know, and in practice it's confirmed that they're usually stock companies. Therefore, these entities should be drawn from the whole of this context, and what remains, therefore, of limited liability companies with special actions have the reason to have slightly greater minimum capital. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be adopted by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9068	Thank you. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanović to Article 113. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic to Article 115. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9069	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 117 is part of this Chapter III that speaks of limited-responsibility societies. The amendment of counterpart Vitomir Plužarevic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is indeed an amendment that should be accepted because it is a meaningful, legally-founded and legally-technically qualified this Article 117, i.e. the third position of this member. In the third point of view of the proposal offered by the Government as a proposal, it states that "a company with limited liability shall issue a certificate to each member of the company as proof of membership and its share, if the founding act or contract of the members of the company is not otherwise defined". We think that instead of this "and its share" it should be said: "the society with limited responsibility of issuing to each member of society a certificate as proof of the membership of the proportion of its share in the underlying capital". This completes the content of the certificate, and we think it's really a more complete, comprehensive solution. I simply don't understand why Mr. Bubalo's proposing representative did not accept this amendment, as I must admit, he showed good will and understanding, which is not very common when it comes to amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. I'd say, Mr. Bubalo, I'm talking to you... Mr. Palalic, let the minister hear me, you will see that he will accept this amendment. So, Mr. Bubalo, I don't think you accepted this amendment just because you and the MPs didn't have enough time. And you expected this law to be on the agenda much later than it was. I understand that you only received the amendments yesterday and that there was very little time, but here I suggest you now, look at the amendment, look at this proposed article, and you will see that this amendment is more comprehensive, more concrete, we are not touching the essence of the law, nor of the 117th or the whole of this chapter. We simply think that the amendment solution is more appropriate and that it should be adopted and hopefully, if you don't, that it will be done by fellow MPs in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9070	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I now join an appeal that has been made many times. Mrs. Radeta, allow me to say something to the Minister now. So, I ask that further amendments be reviewed in detail, and if there is a need for some of the amendments to agree and accept that this is discussed Monday morning with the MPs, because there is obviously a confusion. Namely, to the heads of the parliamentary groups of all parties, I was timely, three days before this law came to the agenda, said that in order to speed up the work of the session and what we agreed all together 20 days ago this law would certainly arrive earlier, which does not mean that it did not take any more time for mutual harmonisation within the parliamentary groups. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 118. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly explain why I submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS. Article 123 refers to a company's credit for the acquisition of its shares. I believe that there is one wave in this article between points 1, 2 and 3, so I suggested that attitudes 2 and 3 be deleted as unnecessary, because this first attitude tells everything. It reads, "The limited-responsibility society cannot, directly or indirectly, provide financial support for any kind of purchase of its stakes." This is completely understandable and completely true, however, in paragraph 2, there is a fluctuation, and then it is said: "The Law of 1 this Member does not refer to the current legal affairs of financial organisations, as well as to the granting of advances or loans or to the provision of security by a company with limited responsibility for the acquisition of the share of the company by employees in society or in related societies. "If this were to exist, certain malfeasances would surely occur. That is why there is a forecast in paragraph 3 that says: "Admissions under Article 2 may only be made within the limits of payment prescribed by this law. "This formulation is confusing. So I would suggest that only attitude 1 be adopted and attitudes 2 and 3 be deleted for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9072	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 128. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will speak very briefly about this amendment. Simply, when I submitted this amendment to the proposal for a law on companies, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I tried to try to simplify and shorten something with this amendment. So with this amendment, I wanted to simplify and shorten the explanation, when we talk about the terms and consequences of the transfer in Article 128, so it's not too wide; I think it should be short and simple, to actually shorten that explanation. I suggested that in Article 128, paragraph 1, which refers to the conditions and consequences of transmission, the second sentence should be deleted. The sentence reads: "The transfer of the share does not require an amendment to the founding act of a limited liability society, unless otherwise specified by that act". I think that second sentence should be deleted and it should remain the first one to define and clearly say that the share is transferred by a written form with certified signatures of the transporter and the sticker. That's defined. Article 2 defines certain things and says: "The carrier and the shareholder of the share shall be obliged to apply without delay to society with limited liability for the transfer of shares, change of members and time of change, for the purpose of enrollment in the book of shares. "I have made an observation that attitude 3 is changing and that "the shareholder of the stake becomes a member of a limited-responsibility society," and nothing more. It is unnecessary for this one sentence to define this; it may be of a technical nature, and Article 4 remains – the transfer of the share to the heirs has legal fact in accordance with the inheritance act. I believe that this law should have been passed before the Law on Labour and the Law on Privatisation. I think it's all connected. Why wasn't that done? We proposed this as a parliamentary group at the end of January, the Law on Privatisation, and why it is not on the agenda I can assume - because of the many problems. There was no minister, but some may not have been in a hurry to do so before, because there are many privatisation problems. We're aware of that. Why I'm talking about the Labour Act, which is also related to the law on peaceful settlement of work disputes. I'll give you an example, since I haven't had a chance to explain. Let's just say, at the Shipyard in Apatino, the firm was put in a position to be privatized. The new owner, the boss who comes from the center of power, I say, simply took on commitments that he has failed to meet at any point in the contract. All the employees of the Shipyard (sometimes employed close to 800 people) sued the new owner, employer, for failing to meet the contractual obligations relating to unpaid personal incomes and reconciliation on the basis of various contributions, etc. To shorten this discussion, I'll tell you that none of it has anything to do with it. Even the Privatisation Agency came for review; there's nothing out of it, so it's never going to be. For what? Because that boss is Mr. Voyin Lazarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9074	The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic to Article 135. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 135th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Milica Gavrilovic, and withdrew the amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted an amendment to Section 8 and Articles 136 - 152. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Articles 136 - 152, which is more for the purpose of the legal and technical editorial of this law. So it is mentioned here that one of the authorities of the company or society is a congregation of members of society, so I am at least surprised that the promoter tried not to change this part of the text, because I asked it to be a congregation of society, not a congregation of members of society. That I am right to be seen from Article 136(3), where it is said: "A member of a limited liability society under Article 2 following the decision-making from the jurisdiction of the congregation with limited liability shall draw up and sign the minutes and the decisions made shall be entered in the decision book. "So, in this Article 136, they already exist, have been accepted by the very promoter of this provision, in order to be in Article 138(1): "The session of the assembly of members of the limited liability society... "and that's how it all goes down to Article 152. It is insane that this is called a congregation of members of society, as it says in its explanation for this amendment, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be called the National Assembly of People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, unless you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9076	Member of the 136th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still don't think the minister had enough time to take a close look at all the amendments to the SRS, although Mr President says we are MPs, and I suppose the minister, too, had three days to know that this law on companies, with nearly 500 members, would be on the agenda today, or yesterday. In those three days we managed to see some illogicalities. Although Mr. Minister has accepted on behalf of the government a number of amendments to the SRS, it seems to me that this amendment submitted by Mr. Igor Becic is indeed meaningful and has a legal basis and should be adopted. For the sake of the public, if we don't get the impression that we're just talking to each other to talk, I'll read the proposed solution and the amendment solution. Paragraph 2 of Article 136 says, "In a limited-responsibility society with one member of the authority of the Assembly of Members, the member or the authorised person shall act." So it's a society with one member. In paragraph 4, which we propose to delete, it is said: "Agreements between members of Article 2 of this Article and society must be in writing or entered into the decision book, unless the current business is concluded under normal conditions". It is indeed quite unclear and therefore the amendment has been submitted, as it was not possible to determine what the provision of this Article 4 applies to a single-member company, a single-member company. With whom will this company with one member conclude an agreement? With one part of myself. It is simply not clear enough and I am trying to convince the minister to accept this amendment, and I allow him to convince the MPs of the SRS that the proposed solution makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9078	Anyone else want a word? Before we move on to the next amendment, the word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9079	I think we showed willingness to accept everything that was really rational and that helped improve the quality of this law. The reason why this amendment cannot be accepted lies, above all, in that a solution is proposed in accordance with the 12th Directive of the European Union on a one-member limited liability society. This Article 4 also refers to such a possibility, i.e. all forms of companies which may at one time become one member of a limited liability society.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9080	The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Gavrilovic to Article 139. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 140th Amendment were submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic to article 144. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 146, the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, on the proposal for a law on companies, I submit an amendment to Article 146(1), where the words "Articles 144, 1 and 3" are replaced by the words "Article 144(1)". Item 3 is deleted. In order to clarify this point 3 of Article 144, I will quote it in full, in order to see the reason for its removal from Article 146: "The quorum for decision-making in the re-constituent assembly shall be one-third of the total number of members of society with limited responsibility, if the founding act or contract of members of society has not been determined by a number of votes". It follows that Article 146, paragraph 1, states that the contested position 3 of Article 144 is to be deleted and only paragraph 1 should be left for the purpose of avoiding a qualified majority if the quorum is one-third. If we know that a limited liability society has up to 50 members, under Article 104(4), and extremely up to 100, but which, after a year, changes legal form and passes into a closed stock company, it can be easily seen that with such a qualified small majority can easily be misused, especially according to members of society who do not know their rights well in the mentioned society. This will turn out to be a third of a limited-responsibility society that, for example, has 50 members attending a renewed assembly and will be sufficient for nine members to represent the majority. There's a possible abuse. It is, in fact, contrary to the status equality of all members of society. In Article 146 of the "Decision" section, it is necessary to delete the position of Article 3 of Article 144, which is stated here, because such a decision is taken in doubt if the quorum is one-third. Just as if someone in the National Assembly had declared legitimate decisions adopted by most of the 84 MPs. Also, one of the arguments to accept this amendment is the fact that the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, as well as the representative of your ministry, has accepted the previous amendment to Article 144, and that is precisely on Article 3 where the term "decision" is replaced by the words "maintenance of the repeat assembly". Since Article 146 regulates the way in which the decision is taken, it is unnecessary to state Article 144 item 3 as it regulates the maintenance of a limited - liability congregation, not a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9082	The word has been made by MP Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9083	For the sake of the public, I do not think it is appropriate to compare this amendment with the National Assembly, because the National Assembly makes its decision on the basis of the Constitution and on the basis of all those regulations prescribed in the Rules of Procedure. The comparison with what is necessary for the quorum for the work of the Assembly is not appropriate to what is stated in this amendment, as the founding act may prescribe otherwise. This is absolutely not in line with what the National Assembly is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9084	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milan Nikolic, Zoran Angelkovic and Bojan Kekic together submitted five amendments and an amendment with a correction and withdrew all five amendments. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic, a member of the 155th amendment. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 157, the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic to Article 163. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic to Article 170. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 174. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 176. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic to Article 179. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9085	Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a company law, I have submitted an amendment, in front of the SRS, to Article 179 paragraph 4 which is deleted, and this is about excluding members from a limited-responsibility society. Point 4 says: "by its behaviour it prevents or makes it difficult for society to operate". Point 4) says that there is not enough precise explanation of how a member works and is not at all precise why and how it would be excluded. I want to say to this occasion, as I said, that this law is directly related to privatisation in Serbia and in general to the Privatisation Act. I'd draw attention to Mr. Secretary if he said he didn't want to do a privatisation review. I believe it is a great injustice for the state, because many irregularities have occurred, of course, because of the very Law on Privatisation, which we members of the Committee have received, where we have the left side of the law in English and the right side of the law in Serbian. Therefore, the Privatisation Act is very precisely rewritten by the DS, simply, without any thought whatsoever, imposed by law, which should really enter the congregation procedure within the nearest time limit. The Privatisation Act, I said, is the most causing problems in the post-privatization process, where there are many irregularities and many irregularities, so that workers themselves can't solve their accumulated problems in court either. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the President of the Assembly and ask him to make a slightly greater contribution to this respected House and to us MPs, to pay more attention to us than to his personal reputation with the statements he makes in the press.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9086	I didn't understand. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 186. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 186(2) and suggested that this position be deleted. I suggest that this amendment be adopted. Since I did not participate in the principle debate, I would only point out in two or three sentences that this law is in conflict with the Law on Liaison, especially in the case of obsolescence. First of all, in the Law on Bond Relations, which is a system law and a very good law, according to the provisions of Article 360 to 393, deadlines, time, method of limitations are regulated. The deadlines provided for in the proposed law are absolutely contrary to the provisions of the Law on Liabilities and therefore I suggest that the Proposer consider it once more, there is time for the adoption of the law, to comply, if nothing, with the Law on Liabilities. Otherwise, this law cannot be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9088	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 194 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't go out on purpose to replicate to Mr. Secretary when he responded to my explanation of the amendment to Article 136. In the principle debate of my fellow SRS and I, we spoke precisely in the sense that we are aware, when it comes to this law, as well as many laws that should be passed in this National Assembly, that the harmonisation of our regulations with European Union regulations should be carried out, but also that the proposing, as well as the parliamentary majority, when adopting these laws, should make sure that these regulations cannot literally be prescribed. We have our specificities, as every country has, and this coordination should be such that it respects the specificities of Serbia, the Serbian economy, Serbian privatisation, the very bad situation in our economy, the very bad situation due to criminal privatisation, the very bad situation due to millions of unemployed in Serbia. That is why I did not like the minister's argument that the amendment could not have been adopted just because it was a directive of the European Union. Mr. Ministers and ladies and gentlemen, and the president of Serbia adopted a directive when he called on Serbs from Kosovo to go to elections, so he made a terrible national problem and probably forgot about his election promise of new jobs, on higher salaries, on higher pensions. Don't you government gentlemen get trapped in the same trap. The European Union is often not well-intentioned when it comes to the state of Serbia and the Serbian national interest. When it comes to Article 194 and the amendment proposed by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, it is that a government solution (the topic is a closed society) is proposed that a closed company can have a maximum of 100 shareholders. We in the SRS think that the number 100 should be replaced by 50, because closed-type stock companies should normally have fewer members. I hope you will adopt this amendment, too, because it must be meaningful, because it is adapted to the stock society, adapted to our legal system. Of course, if you don't have another directive, but that's what you have to listen to, and we of the opposition don't, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9090	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Predrag Bubalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9091	Unfortunately, in addition to the fact that certain provisions are in line with the European Union directives, this is a failure of the promoters, because this has nothing to do with the directive. This was designed. It's our original solution and it's measured for two reasons. Anyone who can do more can do less. So if, instead of 50, the limit of 100 is set, it doesn't mean that it can't be a closed stock company under 50. On the other hand, after the privatisation process, there will be a number of organisational changes in the companies themselves that will become closed companies, and we need to have one wider space, or 100 is rightly measured in relation to the proposed solutions and is not in line with the directives, because the directives did not require us to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9092	On Article 196 of the amendment, MP Radmilo Milosevic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 211 by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 212 by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 232. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Radmilo Milosevic submitted the amendment to Article 233. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Radmilo Milosevic submitted the amendment to Article 236. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 277th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Milosevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Pesic to Article 298. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 313. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Pesic to Article 334. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Pesic to Article 347. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 350. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Pesic to Article 363. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milutin Pesic submitted an amendment to the name of the fifth part. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic to Article 371. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic to Article 395. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic to Article 413. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 445th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 447th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 447th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9093	In the light of the bill, it was said that the law did everything to protect small shareholders. It is true, but if it is done until the end, then such a member with the content of Article 447 is unnecessary in this law and I therefore suggest that Article 447 be deleted. Article 447 provides that a major shareholder with 95% ownership can force a small shareholder who has only 5% ownership to sell him his shares. I find an excuse for asking that member to be deleted. In Article 13, paragraph 10 states that the rights of companies on the basis of liability, and lists the nine known points, a company or a partner, or a member and shareholder who has or represents at least 5% of the underlying capital in the company. I wonder why we're giving any rights to a small stockholder who only has 5% of the shares if we take them away from him by forcing him into a forced sale. The next member of 448 protects the small shareholder and gives him the right to be the first bidder, i.e. to buy the shares from him first if he has 5%. But the question is why do we give the big stockholder, who has 95% ownership, that he can buy it, or that he has to sell it to him. There is no protection of small shareholders from the majority owner, and I think it is necessary that this amendment be adopted and that small shareholders be protected in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9094	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has Mr. Minister Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9095	Since we are at the end of the debate on amendments and the bill's proposal, not in order to divide the Assembly but to take advantage of another moment, since the amendment is legally possible, I propose that this amendment be made known to the Assembly. For me, there are reasons for and against, but I suggest that the Assembly declare itself to him in decision-making.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-13-0.u9096	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic to Article 450. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 451st amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 456th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since we've exhausted the agenda of this session, I'm determining Monday, November 15th at 1400 hours... Please, I have a request from the MPs, understand, because there are going to be some congregations, and the Security Committee has a session, so at 14.00 a.m. as voting day. [[growls]] At the same time, I ask you to listen to an important announcement -- that MPs prepare and submit the amendments in due time, I intend to hold a session on which the draft budget bill for 2005 will be held, most likely for Thursday, November 18th. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your patience, we have waited for the work of the Security Committee to be completed. According to official records, 217 MPs attend. We continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the National MP Nenad Bogdanovic. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all items of the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session in 2004, they move to a decision-making session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PARICAL PROCEDURE Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on litigation, in principle. For 123, with 21 abstentions, 60 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Slobodan Vučković, representative of the Group of Amendments, withdrew the amendment to Article 166, which was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Marković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic, and MP Zarko Obradovic, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, withdrew the amendment to Article 327. It's a bill of law. Also, I remind you that during the search of the Bills in particular, the representative of the Amendments, MP Milan Markovic withdrew the amendment to Article 84, which was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic and Slobodan Pajovic, as well as that it was found that an integral part of the Bill had become an amendment of the People's MPs: Vladimir Homan to Article 134; Slobodan Vukković, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Marković, Leile Ruždić-Trifunović and Boško Ristić to Article 145; Zarka Obradovic to Article 296 and Bojan Kekić to Article 296. It's a bill of law. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 145, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, of the 214 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ispanović Istvan. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 176, 25 abstentions, ten of the 215 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 146, a abstentioned one, did not vote eight, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 130, with 20 abstentions, five of 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted together to the 34th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 28, against 121, two abstentions, 66 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 123, 68 of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 154, against 65, they did not vote two out of 221 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted together to the 66th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 29, against 125, 66 of the 220 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted together to the 67th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 30, against 121, 70 of the 221 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 69th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radet. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93, against 120, did not vote nine out of 222 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 84th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 120, 20 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Miodrag Djidic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 121, four of the 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 88th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 66 of the 189 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 123, two of 191 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ispanović Istvan. The proposer's representative did not accept this amendment, the Justice Committee and the administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 121, 68 of the 191 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Three out of 192 MPs voted for 189, not for 189. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, one of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 106 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 125, two of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 107th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 124, two of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 107th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 125, two of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. At Article 108 of the amendment with the correction, MP Miljko Cetrovic submitted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, one of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted together to the 110th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 69 of the 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 120th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 123, four out of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pavlovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 124, five out of 192 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, he did not vote 71, a total of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Branislav Rankic and joint MPs Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic have submitted amendments, in the same text, which suggest that Chapter 14 and Articles 176 to 180 be deleted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, he did not vote one, a total of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 66, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 214th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 67, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Bosko Ristic, Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić and Milan Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 64, out of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to Article 247. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 124, there are not three votes, a total of 190 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 68, a total of 190 MPs did not vote against 122. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 274th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 125, two, a total of 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 275th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 65, against 123, two, a total of 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 276th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 124, two, a total of 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 277th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 124, two, a total of 190 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 278. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 124, two, a total of 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 279th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 124, two, a total of 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 65 were not voted, a total of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 285th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 122, three, a total of 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 183, six of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the National Assembly Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119 against 65, two abstentions were not voted by three, of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 68 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 320 by MP Vladimir Homan. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 117, 70 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 66 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 336th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Bosko Ristic, Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic and Milan Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, it did not vote 67, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 337th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, Bosko Ristic, Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic and Milan Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 116, he did not vote 71, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 338. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 121, four of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 65 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 360th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 122, five out of 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan to Article 361. The MP's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 62 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the National Assembly Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidic, submitted the amendment together. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, they did not vote 62 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 366. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 118, nine out of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 120, was not voted 65 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, he did not vote 61, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 378. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 124, three of the 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Stevica Dedjanski has tabled an amendment proposing that heading 28. "A complaint with an alternative proposal for audit decision" (direct audit) and members 389, 390, 391, 392, and 393 are deleted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 123, they are not voters, of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov to Article 394. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 122, four of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, it did not vote 65, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, they did not vote 63, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic to Article 395. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 124, four of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic to Article 398. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 124, two of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 401st amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 124, three of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 417th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 122, seven of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic to Article 418. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 123, four of the 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 424th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, they did not vote 62 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on litigation in general. For 125, against one, he did not vote 61, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on litigation. As the National Assembly passed the draft law on litigation in general, I find that when the law is drawn up for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" the legal and technical order carried out by the Legislative Committee will be introduced into the text of the law. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on executive procedure in principle to the vote. For 126, a abstentioned one, no vote of 60, of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bill's proposal, it was found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal had become the amendment of the National MPs Miljko Cetrovic to Article 188, Milan Stevovic to Article 219, Petar Jojic to Article 231, Peter Cvetkovic, Jovan Palalić and Goran Rakovic to Articles 255, 258 and 259. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 121, six out of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 181, a abstentioned one, not five, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 64 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 122, eight out of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Bosko Ristic and Bozidar Koprivica. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendments. The applicant's representative accepted the amendments. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 178, against three, five of 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted these amendments. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, they did not vote 63 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 121, seven of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 121, eight of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 120, there were no votes of eight, of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 118, it did not vote 11 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 121, six out of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 119, seven of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 120, there were no votes of eight, of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 121, eight of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For, against 116, the vote was not 69, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 120, six out of 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 66 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 19th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proponents did not accept this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 123, five out of 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 119, there were no votes of eight, of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 65, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 121, seven of 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept this amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 181, five of the 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 65 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 119, nine of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 120, nine out of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 62, against 120, it did not vote seven out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 122, six out of 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 66 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 67 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 120, eight out of 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 121, eight of the 184 ambassadors did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 120, it did not vote 13, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 34th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 115, 17 of the 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 118, there was no vote of 66, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 178, it did not vote eight out of 118 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 44th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 121, 12 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 45th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 122, nine out of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 121, 12 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 61st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 122, nine out of 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 68 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 118, it did not vote 11 out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Bosko Ristic and Vojislav Milajic. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendments. The applicant's representative accepted the amendments. The Legislative Committee considers these amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 147 against one, it did not vote 39, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 67th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bosko Ristic and Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 121, there were no 11 votes, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In all, 186 MPs did not vote against 121. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 121, 7. A total of 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Bosko Ristic submitted to the 70th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 67, a total of 186 MPs, did not vote against 119. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 81st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 120, 10, a total of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 95th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 120, there were no 8 votes, a total of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 96. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 118, 125, a total of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 98, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 178, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Stevovic submitted to the 99th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 122, there were no 8 votes, a total of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 120, there were no 11 votes, a total of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 155. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 117, 15, a total of 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 201. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 116, there were no 13 votes, a total of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 206. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 117, there were no 11 votes, a total of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 245 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 119, 9 voted, a total of 183 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 268, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 119, 12, a total of 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 269. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 120, 9 voted, a total of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 305. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 36a be added after article 306. The Committee on Justice and Administration and a representative of the proposings did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 116, 14 of the 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law on executive procedure, in general. For 125, it did not vote 60 out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the executive procedure. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF SANITARY CONTROL Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting a vote on the Sanitary Control Bill, in principle. For 125, he did not vote 61, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the name of the bill, title above Articles 1 and 1. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 121, seven of 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milivoje Vukovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 2 and 2. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 118, 10 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 118, it did not vote 11 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Mileta Poscurica has submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter II above Article 6 and Article 6. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 115, there were 16 votes, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 119, 11 of the 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 121, 11 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic to Article 24. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 67, against 111, seven of 185 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 116, it was not 13 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the Sanitary Control Bill, in general. For 125, it did not vote 61, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on sanitary supervision. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Populations since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a bill on the protection of the population against vulnerable diseases, in principle. For 125, they did not vote 62 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 123, 10 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 119, it was not 13 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 186 MPs were present. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59 against 118, 10 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 120, 10 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the National Assembly reject this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 122, nine of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on the protection of the population against infectious diseases in general. For 124, they did not vote 64 out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of the population against infectious diseases. As the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases in general, I find that the legal and technical redistribution carried out by the Legislative Committee will be introduced into the text of the law when preparing the law for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Wait a minute, wait a minute. I'm just reading this legal-technical newsroom. So, in Article 30, point 2 of the word... Excuse me, this is a request for a legal technical order of members 30 and 37. Proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. So, for the next point, and Minister Lalovic says, I suggest that, if a law on litigation is adopted, it was adopted, meanwhile, by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to carry out a legal-technical order in Articles 30 and 37. The draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes and, firstly, in Article 30(2), the word "restriction" to replace the word "interruption", and in Article 37, "if the proceedings before the court rests" is replaced by the words "if the proceedings before the court are terminated". Do you agree on two things for the National Assembly to declare, that the Legislative Committee will declare this and inform us, so that the Assembly will vote first. Secondly, let's continue our work until the vote is complete. Can we vote on that as a single proposal? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, against 49, 12 out of 186 MPs were not voted. I'm giving a break until 18.05 hours for the Legislative Committee to come forward. The Legislative Committee, please, members will be in a small room immediately to make this decision. Thank you.
