ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4968	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am the People's MP Heliana Dragojevic of Bolec. I thank my Bolsheviks who voted for the list I was on because the environment like mys rarely has the opportunity to have a representative in parliament. Dear colleagues, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. The Social Security and Social Security Act was passed in 1991. Meanwhile, he suffered more changes and additions. Its long-term application indicates that the further unsustainable level of social security established by this law is unsustainable. Under the applicable law, it is determined in a percentage amount of average earnings in municipalities, resulting in a difference in social security levels per municipality. The ratio of the lowest and highest amount of material security in the Republic is now 1:5. It is therefore necessary to amend the Law by establishing a single minimum of social security in the Republic, equal for all citizens. These provisions would have been applied since September of this year. The proposed solution would improve the position of citizens in 122 municipalities in the Republic, in which, according to data for the first quarter of the current year, average earnings are lower than average earnings in the Republic, which is the case in most municipalities in my community. It has been estimated that this right will bring about 13,000 new families. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the method of harmonising the level of social security, which has so far been harmonised with the growth of earnings, leading in certain situations to a nominal decline in this value. So now it's proposed to align with the cost of living index, and every month. Article 2 The proposal was given the possibility for the government to grant one-time assistance in cases of exceptional threat to the life standard of a large number of citizens. The proposed changes are treated differently by a family in which most members are able to work, limiting the time of use of material security up to nine months during the year. The process of recognising the right to material security has been simplified, and the advantage for citizens is also the solution to recognise the right from the day of application. The proposed changes also concern a second person's assistance and care supplement, which is also in line every month with the Life Cost Index, in order to support families who care for persons with special needs. If the user of such assistance is located in a social protection facility, he shall continue to use the aid, as this right is achieved according to health indications, and the user should participate in the payment of accommodation costs. The amendment of the law creates assumptions for regulating the position of foster families, by limiting the number of foster parents to up to three children, or two, if they are distracted in development, by the total number of children in the foster family, counting foster children, cannot be greater than four children. The exception is when it comes to houseing in a family of relatives and houseing brothers and sisters. Three adults or three old faces can be placed in another family. The nutrient training issue has been settled, minimum and maximum for the work of the fosterer, method of conclusion of the contract, mandatory pension insurance for the fosterer is determined. The proposed measures aim to improve this form of protection, which is most favourable for the protection of children without parental ageing. There are very significant changes that regulate the situation when relatives who are obliged to pay the costs of accommodation do not. The Centre for Social Work has an obligation to initiate the court's debt collection procedure. If the user is placed in a foster home, while the court proceedings are pending, the payment shall take over the budget of the Republic, with the obligation to pay on behalf of the debt to the Republic following the end of the court proceedings. Citizens applying for accommodation in high standard capacities shall bear the costs of the accommodation process, an exception to the general regime under which citizens in the area of social protection do not pay the costs of the procedure. With regard to determining the conditions for the start of work and the performance of social protection institutions and natural persons in the field of social protection, it is proposed to amend the conditions for the appointment of directors, and it is also an obligation for the candidate for director to submit a programme of work of the institution during the term of office, which assesses the management board of the institution in giving an opinion on the appointment of the director. For the Management and Supervisory Committees of the Institute of Social Protection, the draft law provides for the participation of the founders and employees. The newspaper is the participation of users, i.e. legal representatives, guardians of users on boards of user accommodation institutions, and all in order to protect users in a better way. It is proposed to set up a new social protection institution, a social protection institute, to deal with the supervision of professional work and the improvement of the social protection system. The amendments to the law also aim to separate administrative supervision and supervision of the professional work of the institution. In this context, it is proposed to introduce a social protection inspection to carry out inspection. The proposed legislative solutions should provide preconditions for improving the social protection system and improving the position of users, which is sufficient reasons for their adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4969	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4970	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is in a catastrophic economic crisis and social misery. A large number of citizens in Serbia are literally starving and all thanks to the failure to care for the Serbian government, the former who has been criminalised and the current who is partly criminalised, and partly unable to work in the interests of Serbian citizens. Mr. Minister, when you propose this law that you reduce social giving, you should explain to us whether you've been thinking about those people who are still working and still receiving salaries; how many are those who, even though they're decent and model citizens, cannot pay for electricity, communals, water. Why didn't you ask Dinkic to stop paying the water tax, which is really amazing, but in this country Serbia, unfortunately, is true. Such a law as the Government has proposed cannot protect the poorest layer of citizens, especially if the minister of labour, employment and social protection, Mr Slobodan Lalovic, who remains known to Serbian citizens, has promised to share in the railways and other public enterprises about 40% more employees, the same story as in former Minister Milovanovic's time. And he, like you, promised to quit. The government, or other government members, said they would open new jobs and, unfortunately, each time the minister was right. However, several criminal proceedings are being conducted against Minister Milovanovic, and I have information that you, Minister Lalovic, have promised a group of workers who are leading the proceedings against Minister Milovanovic that you will be from your post, and through the Social Protection Committee of the Serbian Parliament, to initiate the formation of a polling committee (the minister of course does not listen to me, doesn't care what he has promised) in order to determine the facts related to the alleged washing of Milovanovic's money through the ministry he led. Minister, in order to prevent an increase in the number of citizens who will fall under this law and come into a situation where they must be granted social assistance because they will be out of work, you had an obstacle task. This was the adoption of a new labour law. First, because the existing Labour Act is the most tragic thing that could have happened to Serbia, a law that left hundreds of citizens without a job and no means to live, and secondly, because you continued to apply the law that was never brought into this assembly. To remind you, it's a law that a DOS MP voted for with a remote control from Thessaloniki. You knew that, and in the election campaign, you talked about it, and for four months now, as long as you're a minister, it doesn't occur to you to change that disastrous law. Every day, more and more Serbian citizens will have to be granted social protection funds. Every day we have roadblocks from those whom the government won't pay for raspberries, cherry, and the wheat producers are there; although you have concluded some kind of agreement with the wheat producers, it is again not what they were looking for at the beginning, but there is a surprise for them when you start to reduce that price in the name of humidity, in the name of quality, etc. Last night, I heard that the producers of apricots showed up with the same problem. You were just outside the Assembly passed by the workers of the Elektro-distribution. You saw them when you ran out of the audium, they were 15 meters away and you literally ran into the Parliament. I asked those people why they're on strike. They say, because the government has been stealing their money for four years now, because they have 50% less salary than other employees in Elektro-distribution. You didn't answer, Minister, we saw on TV last night that horrible picture of the heavy bodily injuries of the workers, the union representative who wanted to strike, or did you... as the president of a union said, he urged Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to wake up from his winter sleep. It seems that all of you in the Serbian government are in deep winter sleep. Yesterday you said, Minister, that this law foresees decentralisation. I'm asking you, why decentralisation to the level of director? You predicted, apparently, that the director would be elected on the basis of some personal program of the director's work. I suppose the Director should implement a programme to be implemented at the level of local self-government, given the decentralisation that you have predicted, and not to create again the possibility of abuse, so that the social programme or the social protection programme of each individual is subject to a subjective opinion, instead of defining objective criteria and therefore choosing the director, which is perfectly normal. After all, someone told you yesterday - you are not appointed minister either because you have set up a significant social programme for the citizens of Serbia. You said in law you were predicting an institution as an institution that deals professionally with social security issues. I'm asking you -- what about your expertise, what about the expertise of the people in the Ministry, what we need from the Bureau. We've been talking here for days about unnecessarily forming some kind of agency, and you've now invented that it's not an agency, it's an agency. It's not a neck. It's a neck. New employees again, again on the burden of the budget, again on the burden of these people you're reducing to social benefits. Of course, by the way, you're asking yourself to raise your salary by 170%, just to find it. I found something particularly interesting yesterday in this sentence of yours. You said, Ministers - an interesting second dimension is reflected in the fact that in a transitional period and reforms this law is the last haven of families. You say the law target group is family. I'm asking you why you didn't tell the truth, that the target group is family, but in the sense that you're destroying families in Serbia with this kind of social giving, to increase the number of hungry, and it's your job, Minister, to stop this silent death from starving in the country of Serbia which, unfortunately, is a fact. The Serbian Radical Party is certainly aware of the social problems in Serbia and for this very reason we submitted a bill on amendments to the Social Protection and Social Security Act on 8 April this year. Until today, this law was not discussed and we were convinced, since the President of the Assembly did not put our proposal on the agenda, that it was because he had knowledge that you in the Ministry were doing this job seriously and that you would propose a whole new law to the Assembly. It's really enough that we're dealing with amendments and additions here. Let some resolute ministry do a valid law, not to prescribe it, not to supplement it, not to change it, that we really have something to discuss and that law is something that will really contribute to a better life for citizens in Serbia. The proposal submitted by the SRS has essentially only two characteristics which, in our opinion, were really urgent. It is one thing to finally let the citizens of Serbian nationality in Kosovo and Metohija know that this Serbia thinks about them and that families living in Kosovo and Metohija's territory since 24 March 1999 are given adequate social protection. The second objective of our proposal was to increase the amount of social giving. There will, of course, be more words when we talk about the law on details, but I think it is necessary that you accept the amendments of the SRS, because we, in accordance with our party's programme and in accordance with what is currently happening in the country of Serbia, have proposed such amendments that only by accepting these amendments will this law make sense and serve a purpose which I suppose we are bringing. I suppose we're not passing the law just so you can say that your ministry has done something, too, but because the law should improve the social status of Serbian citizens. It's not going to happen to your proposal. It's just not possible for someone to live better if you're reducing their social benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4971	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević, and Milovan Radovanovic, to be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4972	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. This law was first passed in 1991 and has since suffered certain changes. It is necessary to change it further and, of course, adapt and bring it into line with social situation and needs. The G17 plus attitude is that this law is good. MPs of the G17 Plus Group will support and vote in favour of this law. The law is good because it determines a unique minimum, i.e. minimum level of social security for all citizens. Citizens under the same conditions will exercise the right to material security. I would especially like to mention increasing the supplement and helping with the care of the other person. The current monthly amount will be increased from 2,344 dinars to 4,000 dinars. The amount will be adjusted every month. It is important that all users will be evened out, and thus the citizens of 122 municipalities in our Republic will be evened out. I will remind you that Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, has budgeted enough money to cover this legislation. The increase of the care allowance and the assistance of the other person opens up more positive opportunities. One of them, first of all, is to provide support and the possibility for families to retain persons with special needs in families, not for those persons to be placed in individual institutions of social protection. It is a far more expensive solution, and the solution for those with special needs to stay in their families is certainly better for the family and also for the state. Secondly, it is important that persons located in a social security facility retain the right to material security, so that they can actively participate in the settlement of the costs incurred by them in a particular institution. I would especially like to commend the arrangement of foster families. The warmth of the parent home certainly does not replace anything, but the foster family is a form of protection that is most beneficial for children without parental ageing. The improvements in this segment are seen, above all, in the limited number of protégés that the foster family can have, which will certainly lead to a better service. Feeders will certainly be trained in the role they receive, and a minimum and maximum amount of compensation for the work of the feeder will be determined. The mandatory retirement insurance of the foster parent is also foreseen. There are numerous improvements that will take place by passing this law. For the first time, supervision, inspection of the work of social protection institutions is introduced, both at the level of quality control of services and at the level of business control. For the first time they are users of services within the boards of social protection and are actively involved in their work. I'll remind you that this law belongs to a group of laws that are very important to the state, and by adopting it, we'll be closer to getting significant loan and donor aid. MEPs G17 plus will vote for this bill. G17 plus thus advocates improving the status of unjustly marginalised persons with special needs. We've always had general good and general interests above party interests, and let's not ask who wrote this law, because it doesn't matter. It is important that we support him and put the interests of 24,000 citizens with special needs first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4973	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Milovan Radovanovic, and let Slobodan Adzic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4974	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the social threat of a fairly broad circle of people and a large number of inhabitants has multiple causes. The most profound cause in the last few years has been the influence of the United States on the rest of the world, their national orientation, as they say, to conquer other peoples and foreign states. In this sense, there is their influence on these premises before the bombing, and especially during the bombing, when many factories were destroyed, after which a large number of people remained on the edge of material existence, they were socially endangered, and even after October 5, 2000, the Serbian economy was devastated. To mention that farmers, agrarians and agriculture have been permanently endangered and poored since 1945, and this threat and concern for peasants and agriculture remains. Our Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are pretty much deprived and threatened, and the state must take care of their care and social assistance. Their lives aren't protected, they can't farm and farmland to make cadastrian income for basic, bare survival. It's on one side. On the other hand, they do not receive wages and the state cannot take into account the existence of the immobilities of these people, because it is a privileged position for them and it cannot come under the influence of the possible absence of privileges. In privatising businesses over the past few years, the big problem is the introduction of a non-applicable social programme, on the contrary, workers are fired from work at the will of new business owners in Serbia. We have an example of this in the Alexina municipality, where a large number of companies are privatized and people are out of work and, of course, become a socially endangered category of the population. A large number of workers have lost their jobs, about a million, in the last few years, and we can't say that they're taken care of, each of them is socially endangered, each of them needs social care. On the other hand, a considerable number of people are expected to be out of work because there is no solution, at least by this new government, that the economy will be able to revive, that workers will be able to return to work and allow them to receive wages and achieve material existence. Social protection has been transferred from business to care and aging the state, which is good. The concern of businesses and entities has been removed, but it is not good that you continue to destroy the economy that is no longer able to fill the budget. Therefore, the government's interest area is focused on agrarian, agriculture and peasants, on the cadastrian income that needs to be filled with the budget, which should provide social care and social protection, I mean the socially endangered population, and therefore resort to new funding, introduce a new tax burden through social security contributions. In this new bill, it is not good that a social protection office is being introduced, because there will be a number of people, a number of officials, higher expenditures on salaries and material costs, only part of the ministry in this office that also has its responsibilities when it comes to social protection. Third, social protection inspection. Here we have three categories of official, administrative care for social protection, an increase in the number of officials and expenditures on salaries and material costs. With the existing control and surveillance structure, you can have sufficient insight into all the irregularities that occur, such as, for example, the institution for the accommodation of high school students in Alexinac or home for children's accommodation, I mean retarded children, that's also the municipality of Alexinac, more specifically the place of Kulina, during the previous director, a certain Malina. In particular, there is one more thing to say, in the draft of this law, is the appointment of the director of the Social Labour Centre; the right has been transferred from the founder, the municipality, to the competent ministry. If the municipality as the founder of the Centre for Social Labour can make the selection of directors, then the municipality could also elect the director of the Centre for Social Labour. This authority, which is provided for by the Social Protection Act, is withdrawn because if it has greater powers than the Director, then why not, Mr. Minister, the municipality as founder of the Centre for Social Work have the authority, less authority to elect the acting director. Also, if certain workers in the Centre for Social Work in addition to the state examination are to meet this condition, then the Director of the Centre for Social Work should be as one of the conditions for having a state examination, because it is authorised to represent the state in administrative disputes, i.e. the Centre for Social Labour; it is only authorised and should fulfil the condition that it has a professional, or state examination before the other workers at the Centre for Social Labour. Furthermore, some users, through the bill's proposal, are getting the same amount of social benefits, and others are losing because of the diversity of the average income per municipality. It can't be said that this bill is useful and to be accepted and that's why we are in the SRS in our criticism for this speaker of the basic objection. In any case, you need to be calm and calm to sleep, because the cohabitation of DS in your rooms is present, because they have announced that they will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4975	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4976	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I just want to give a few information to remove the inaccuracies that are presented for this speaker, especially those that are repeated, so that neither you nor the citizens of Serbia are mistaken. The inaccuracy here is that this law reduces someone and increases someone. According to current legal solutions, when the average earnings in a city or municipality are higher than the average in the Republic, then the average earnings in the Republic are applied, not in the city or municipality where the average earnings are higher. I'm just saying this so the citizens won't be mistaken. So the incorrect claim is that someone's shrinking, and someone's increasing, it's just increasing. That's the second thing I do now, and if I knew it, I wouldn't comment on it right now, and I'm also thinking about your grades of knowledge or ignorance, let's let the citizens judge who knows and doesn't know. It's the first thing to be considered when it comes to this law. The other thing, also one false thing, I want simply to give information for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and the MPs, because most MPs don't know it, so that he knows in the future -- in every law that comes here and where the term "earning" is always meant only for gross earnings, because there is no more in the laws of "net profit". Why is that significant? Because one number of MPs accounts for this percentage, 32% and the other, compared to net earnings, and some wrong figures come up. So, I ask you in future that all MPs, all that comes into this assembly, are gross earnings, because gross earnings are now eighteen thousand dinars and something, and now count 32% or anything compared to gross earnings. That's two things that are important so that we don't repeat misinformation from this pay phone. Perhaps I should say one more thing, because it is directly related to the law, and in the end I will certainly comment on everything that has been said by the MPs. I think that's important, because here it repeats behind the pay phone one thesis that Serbia's economy is in a difficult state, that it has happened in the last few years, that it is failing; but we should also inform the citizens of Serbia that the Serbian economy has failed and destroyed between 1990 and 2000, when Serbia's social product has been reduced by more than 60% and 5 October 2000, 40% of the social product from 1989 was taken over. So, though we know what's true, and then we can discuss what happened in these few years, but we know the starting point. Secondly, regarding this in a way, there is talk of surplus workers in Serbia, in a way this ministry is being apostropheded about the surplus workers in Serbia; therefore, the surplus workers in Serbia were created precisely in the period of destruction of the Serbian economy in those 10 years. I don't think it's about killing a messenger who brings bad news, but dealing with what's really a problem. So, the Serbian economy that was destroyed in those 10 and over years absolutely has no power to survive (what can survive), unless we can restructure that economy. What needs to be done now is actually that, and the fact that you now see what the consequences are, that's another question. I would simply point to one inaccuracies about this when the Serbian economy is led to the situation in which it is today, because it was during that period and I don't think it would be necessary to discuss it further. If it is facts, we can continue with the facts, what happened to Serbia's social product during that period, and what happens today when it comes to Serbian economy. I think this law that we're talking about is exactly the law that needs to, besides, help the citizens of Serbia most affected by what has been happening in the last 15 years in this unfortunate state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4977	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4978	I wish you could reach the social product of 1998 and even 1999, where we were bombed. Now I'm interested in one other thing, Mr. Minister, did your driver, on May 21st of this year, shoot down a girl at a crosswalk between Calemegdan and Prince Michael's street at 23.55am, escape from the scene of the alcohol accident and were you in the car that evening with him?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4979	I don't see any reason to answer this question, it's not a subject, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4980	Why not, if that's the subject of the law, it's probably connected to the law. So, yes, it's true that the driver of the Ministry of that date, that night, he hooked up a girl at a walking crossing or around a walking crossing. Of course I wasn't in the car, it was late at night, where he was driving... And in the meantime, he got fired, as far as that goes. The ministry has been very helpful in helping that girl, thank God, recover and is now recovering at the Melenci spa and will give God everything will be fine with a 19-year-old girl.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4981	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4982	Why, Mr. Minister, when the car belonged to the Republic Labour Market Office?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4983	I didn't realize a member of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Adzic, and let MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4984	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, Mr Minister, we have before us the government's proposal for a law on amendments to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. I believe that this proposal should be supported because newspapers in this area improve the material status of users of rights, while at the same time providing future users with a higher level of social protection. The fact that additional funding from the Republic's budget of 330 million dinars is necessary for law enforcement, therefore, 212.5 million for the payment of compensation for material security and 117.5 million for the care and assistance compensation, says enough that we are bringing this law in the interest of socially endangered citizens. This will at least partially fulfill our pre-election promise of a socially fair society, which at the same time represents a step towards building a more human society. Unfortunately, today, there are more and more phenomena in society that lead us to the inhumane, and this step is so much more significant. The paper in the proposal that will significantly improve the situation of the socially endangered: firstly, the new provisions of the law establish a single minimum social level of security in the Republic, resulting in better protection of the population in those municipalities where average earnings are lower than average earnings at the level of the Republic. Such municipalities, unfortunately, are in Serbia today 122. Secondly, harmonising the social security level with the cost index, not the growth of earnings, as it has been until now, will allow social giving to a greater extent to monitor the growth of cost of life, which is certainly better than the solution so far because the cost growth is higher than the growth of earnings. Thirdly, 24,000 beneficiaries will have a monthly amount of 4,000 dinars in place of the current 2,344 dinars. This is the right to go since 1 September 2004. Therefore, and future users will receive a higher amount. If a comparison is made with the level of compensation of that same right with the PIO Fund, this amount is also low. It is also low because users are powerless, but I believe that the Ministry of Social Affairs will constantly strengthen and bring this type of protection to the same level over time. Fourthly, by regulating the status of foster families, new provisions improve one form of child protection without parental ageing, which is undoubtedly the most favourable form of protection for those children. Fifthly, newspapers such as: strengthened conditions for the appointment of social services directors, the introduction of users' representatives into social institutions' boards of directors, the establishment of a republican social protection office that will deal with improving social protection in Serbia, flexibility in regulating the issue of the establishment of social work centres in municipalities, the introduction of special inspection supervision over the work of social protection institutions and a number of other newspapers, will allow for the correction of the situation in this area, which we cannot boast, as many other areas currently cannot be praised in the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I would remind you that today we are making changes to the law that was passed in this congregation 13 years ago, when the conditions in our republic were different. Social decomposition has been high in the past period and continues. The number of employees is smaller, and the unemployed are larger, the age structure has changed in favour of the elderly, the number of patients has increased on a percentage today, the number of disabled since the numerous wars in which young people participated has increased. It is therefore necessary to approach systemic solutions to a number of problems related to the issue of social protection. Given that our economy is in a difficult state, it is particularly important that the Ministry finds sources of funding that will be formed on just grounds, which mean that we do not endanger the endangered and impose high obligations on those who focus their activity on increasing the newly created value. Such a possibility exists through greater taxation of the richer, by collecting income to a greater extent than the monopolies, etc. One of the good examples of how funds can be provided is the adoption of a new law on gambling, as the current law has allowed for further enriching of gambling directors and impoverishing the socially endangered. And in the end, the consequences of this law will only be felt at the end of the year, so it is necessary for the Ministry of Social Affairs to work faster to find better solutions to ensure social security and social protection for all citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4985	Thank you to MP Slobodan Adzic. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let the MP Milojub Albianic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4986	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Proposal to amend and supplement the Social Protection and Social Security Act should be in the provisions to have, above all, positive items, but unfortunately, we have many negative items in the bill itself. Instead of being positively highlighted in order to increase social protection, we have negative items here that result in a reduction in social protection for individual users. This is where Mr. Secretary tried to convince us that no one was being reduced and that everyone was getting more social benefits. However, by reading Article 11 which is amended by Article 4 of this Act, the minimum level of social security for the month of September is determined in a percentage amount of the base which makes up the average earnings generated by the second quarter employed in the Republic and that year. So one average is taken, but there are cities and municipalities that have received higher than that average. I do not see that provision, that member of the law, which indicates that, if there is more than an average, this member of the law is applied, so that certain categories of social users do not reduce social benefits. So what is important is that a good law cannot be passed that will reduce social benefits to one number of social users in order to increase other social users. One number will be satisfied, but they will also be dissatisfied. Who's unhappy? These are our most endangered citizens in the Republic of Serbia, those are citizens who receive social protection. It is negative when Mr. Minister declares and agrees, I quote: "The assistance and care of the other person is increasing double". So the current addition to the assistance and care of the other person is 2,394 dinars. If it doubles, it's 4,788 dinars. In light of the bill's proposal, an increase to 4,000 dinars has been seen since 1 September 2004. So the difference is 788.00 dinars. It may be a small item for the minister, but for social assistance users it is certainly a major item and should not deceive the public and citizens, as well as the users of this social protection. I think this proposed amount of care is also very low. This amount should be increased, especially for those users who cost much less the state if they are in their own apartment or in their family home and do not use social protection institutions, which cost the state multiples for these social users. Following the adoption of the Social Protection Act, the amount of material security for users will be increased to 122 municipalities. So that very sentence is being denied by the minister for what he just said. Why in 122 municipalities, why not all municipalities? It further states that the bill will allow another 13,000 new families to be users of social protection. However, there is one category of Serb population that is not covered by this bill. It is a category of population that is not only socially at risk, but is at all the most endangered, and it is about Serbs working in Kosovo and Metohija. It's too high to talk about the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I guess we all know that. I would like to point out that they are not covered by this law and, if they are, they are damaged and neglected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this ministry that handles social benefits. What's this about? Budgetary beneficiaries living and working in Kosovo and Metohija have double incomes, whether in education, health care, administration bodies or in any other service. So those on the payroll of the Republic of Serbia's budget receive double salaries, and social security users do not have the honour, they do not receive it. They are thus damaged because they share the same fate as those who work in education, health care, the state administration, the authorities of local self-government. I think that injustice should be corrected by this bill. Otherwise, the minister himself pointed out on several occasions that in this proposal, the social protection law is firstly humane and solidarity, which is positive, but it is negative if this humanity and solidarity are applied selectively, which means that users of social protection in Kosovo and Metohija do not enjoy the rights, I repeat, employees in education, health care, state administration, local self-government and do not receive double amounts of social protection, as other budget users receive. This injustice has been going on for five years and it is necessary for the Assembly to correct this injustice, so that users of social assistance in Kosovo and Metohija have the same treatment as those who are employees and are beneficiaries of budget funds. This injustice can be corrected through the amendment. I suggest that the minister consider this problem, that it act in amendment and correct this injustice or accept amendments to the SRS. The amendments of the SRS address the problem, i.e. A number of years of injustice is being corrected against Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. More specifically, the amendments to the SRS propose the introduction of a special material security right for individuals, i.e. families who have a permanent and continuous residence on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija for more than five years, starting on 24 March 1999, who are not temporarily displaced from Kosovo and Metohija and who, as victims of occupation, violence and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, are unable to achieve incomes or achieve them below the level of social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is able to provide materially with more than 40,000 families of users, I believe it is necessary to make only one little effort, one gesture of goodwill, with little strength and tenacity to find resources and to provide materially the remaining Serb population, which is despite the unprecedented chaos, terror, lawlessness, which has been exposed daily, however decided to live and survive in Kosovo and Metohija. They deserve the government of the Republic of Serbia to account, to help them, to survive, to survive and survive the current occupation, terror and lawlessness. This is not a large item, a large amount for the budget, for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija deserve much more, but let's help those who are socially at risk in Kosovo and Metohija, correct the years-old injustice and make everything a mother and not, as it is so far, for some mothers and for some stepmoms. The foothold for what I've just said can be found in Article 10. The bill, which says, "The individual who's capable of working... "and these are mostly Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and they have no living conditions, "... That is, the family that has members capable of working, the material security belongs to the duration of nine months a year." So we can refer to this member, with Article 11, where the minimum level of social protection is doubled in relation to what is valid, in order to equalise the population category with those other users of the budgets that are in employment and through income, defined in Article 18. So that's one little effort from the ministry and these problems would be solved; so we would be very helpful to the Serbs who are left behind, who are really threatened, who have no income whatsoever. Let me just give you an example of employees in the Trepcha Comb, and there are a lot of cases where both spouses work in the Trepcha Comb, who have no income whatsoever, and the government has only started to pay some compensation in the last few months. For five years, they were neglected and left to mercy and shame. We can resolve this with an additional effort, while the debate on this bill is under way, through amendments, it is a recommendation for the minister to act; it will not be a great number, and we will be able to protect these families as well as all families in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4987	Thank the MP Kragovic. The People's Messenger Miloljub Albianic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4988	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us a law on amendments to the Social Protection and Social Security Act. It's not easy to defend a law like this, and it's even harder to attack it. It's not easy to defend because we're not a rich Western European country that has high isolation, so it can regulate this area in a normal and good way. So we have to be responsible for people who have adequate material security and proper rights, because their eyes are focused on us, because they mean an increase. And don't spread the demagogue around here to reduce certain things, and some are increasing. Focus on those people in 122 municipalities, where this is increasing and where it really means to them to any extent that it does. I will begin my presentation with the EU Social Charter, where the social protection segment is regulated, which says that people who were unable to enter or re-enter the labour market, and who do not have the means to support, must be able to receive sufficient funds and social assistance in accordance with their specific situation. London, 2004, a young man without a job receives £60 a week and has an apartment. For these 60 pounds, he can normally feed and support himself. In April 2004, the material security for one man is 796 dinars. I can't understand how it bothers anyone to have that base increased. I will highlight here those basic thesis in the very law that in a certain way accelerate and better regulate the given area. So, the law provides a single minimum level of social security. Of course, both municipalities and cities can raise levels according to their potential. It is also important that this level is increased according to the increase in cost of life. Now someone resents that it's not in line with the salary hike. If we had matched that with the salary increase, he would have said-- well, it's not consistent with the cost of living. The salary increase measured this month does not mean that the increase will be in the next month, and we are witnessing that the cost of living from month to month is increasing. Then, there is an increase in the amount of other person's aid and care allowance, the status of foster families is arranged, as this is the most favourable form for children without parental ageing. It is particularly important to point out the possibility of the right to pension insurance of the foster parent. As far as the institutional framework is concerned, a social protection office is established, which will deal with the supervision of professional work and the improvement of the social protection system and also introduces a social protection inspection, as it is necessary to control whether these measures are implemented in an adequate manner. Conditions for appointment of directors are tightened and users will have a representative in the composition of the boards. So no one can blame this area for not being arranged in a certain way. It was heard here at the assembly speaker that this assembly had not passed a sufficient number of laws, whether we had passed laws or had brought amendments or additions to the law. I didn't see that it was important for a certain parliamentary group to change or supplement this, because they don't respond positively to either of them, but here at the pay phone they try or call for a strike, which they do these days, and I'm telling you that the minister is experienced in union work, so you can consult him on how it's done and whether he's working here for a congregation speaker. Some say we don't care about peasants and agriculture, and you know for a fact that the agrarnigette has been increased three times, that the short-term and long-term loans have started, so get to know each other a little bit if you don't know about it, and you know that you've discussed wheat yourself, but I'll also tell you that G17 plus also Prof. The peace-loving Labus who negotiated. And I'll tell you "a grain per grain of cake", one law at a time, one change at a time, things are slowly being arranged, and you're waving straw all you want here. I will also tell you that for the application of this law, because the application is very important, the allocation of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget is not thanks to you, but thanks to Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, so we will have the opportunity to implement this law. Of course, this way we don't solve the fate of the country, but we're increasing the social security threshold. This is how it should continue in the future, in various areas of life, to pass laws that promote and improve these areas. G17 plus stands for it and will vote for this bill. Also, G17 plus calls for other parliamentary groups and fellow MPs to vote in favour of the law, because it better regulates the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4989	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. The word is Stefan Zankov, and for discussion, let the MP of the people be prepared, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4990	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliaments, the programming definitions of the SRS are such that caring about the most endangered, about those who are unable to make their own living with their own work, is a priority for us. We believe that social function is one of the most important functions of every modern state. The existing legal solutions and regulations governing the area of social protection are generally good because they provide and guarantee satisfactory rights for users. What was the problem is their realisation in terms of determining concrete percentages, where it all comes down to a lack of money, and the money in the end line is not due to the problems of all problems, i.e. because of the failure of the Serbian economy. These changes and additions to the Social Security and Social Security Act do not bring anything revolutionary. The real ones remain practically the same. The percentages themselves in Article 4. The bill could be good if profits in Serbia were at some European level. This is as percentage of our average profit as well as that gross one, this is practically nothing. From 16% to 32%, that's when you recalculate from 2,800 to 5,700 dinars, I'm talking about, depending on whether it's an individual or a family with one, two or more members, who aren't capable of work. What can be done with these financial amounts, if we know what the cost of living in Serbia is today? It's practically nothing. And the power went up by 26% ten days ago for the largest number of users. So the key thing here is to make a significant percentage increase. It would be the only result, not these legal changes in itself. What's good, that's the fact that users in 122 municipalities, whose average earnings are below the republican, are going to get slightly higher amounts, but in other municipalities they're going to get less than before. I think it took these miserable percentages to determine so that no user gets less. The same Article 4 says that the minimum level of social security will be harmonised every month with the cost of living index. I think this is just a hoax. For what? When prices grew, you matched them with profits. Now that you're supposed to be growing profits, and the prices have mostly reached the maximum level, you're harmonising with the prices, or with the cost of living. What can be seen in this bill is a lot of text that doesn't essentially bring anything new, and even less creates conditions to change something better in this area. There's illogicality. Article 1 amends Article 8 and says - the costs of the procedure for the exercise of the right under this law are not borne by the citizens, unless otherwise established by this law. How is it possible that the costs of the procedure can be borne by the users of this right which, in my opinion, is pointless, so it is here and excessive. Article 3 adds the word "minimum" to the level of social security, which is also absolutely excessive. Why would that level have more levels, minimum, medium, maximum, etc? In accordance with old practice, when you do not know how to explain or justify a legal solution, you are calling for compliance with European Union regulations or decentralisation, which is the case in Article 2 where the provision of the right to accommodation at shelters and reception stations is transferred from the authority of the Republic to the jurisdiction of the municipality. How is this going to, as you say, strengthen local self-government, when this is just one out of seven, it seems to me, the rights that exist in the social protection system. It seems to me before that this is a simple change, just for a change. Article 13 states: Article 25 is amended and reads as follows: "The second person's assistance and care allowance is determined in the nominal monthly amount. "Why didn't you go here as a percentage of the average earnings made per employee in the Republic, which was only right when social benefits were at stake, not fixed. Article 15 of amending and supplementing the law limits the number of children who can be placed in another family to three, or two, and the practice tells us something else entirely. It is known how many people who accept more children and whose state needs to help, rather than restrict them in this way and hold them back from carrying out their human mission. The government obviously cannot, as well as the previous one, without forming a new agency, an office, a commission or something under the minority law. So here, I suppose, in order to increase employment in Serbia, you are proposing the establishment of a new institution. It's a social security office. In your explanation, it would be a professional institution that would oversee professional work and improve the social protection system, that by 1990 this was done by the Institute of Social Policy, which was abolished, so that there is now no professional institution in the system that would be qualityd to deal with issues of improving the functioning of social protection institutions. It's all very well said here, but I'm convinced this is just another way to make your so-called. The experts come to another chair. It is certainly not a problem in this area that there is no studio dealing with these issues. Here is the problem of money, the failure of the economy, and only by providing more resources can help people who are unable to work. At the very end, I think you could take into account the difficult position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who cannot make incomes, because they live in the conditions of occupation, terrorism, and give them the right to special material security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4991	I thank Parliamentarian Zankov. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, and for discussion, let the MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4992	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the laws that respond to situations such as existential threat, great unemployment, social pathology, moral crisis, family crisis, is recognised by responsible authority, as well as human society. This is precisely the result of the fact that our society in the previous period was exposed to sanctions, wars, changes in the social system, and thus increased the number of persons who needed greater social services and social protection. The fact is that our country needs a social policy strategy, strengthening institutions, professionalising personnel and equipping institutions. But, of course, it is also necessary to change urgently some of the regulations that have been passed in the previous period, which have resulted in a deterioration in the social situation of a large number of our citizens. I mean, first of all, the rules of the PIO area and the Labour Act that proved to be bad for a large number of our fellow citizens who were employed in that period behind us. I can say that in my municipality, in Bačka Palanca, a large number of people were out of work and a large number of people were directly threatened and affected by the Law on PIO, so that citizens and employees of certain enterprises addressed me and asked me to make a request to change the laws in the field of labour and PIO. This law also mentions the issue of decentralisation. The result of this situation, the result of the wars, is a large number of refugees that are in our country and indeed needs social protection. I can say that there are 8,500 refugees in my municipality, primarily from the western Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, integration programs have been developed, a large number of issues have been opened. However, local authorities, the municipal government did not answer these questions. We have the fact that these refugees are in a situation that over 7,500 of them are paying rent, 1,800 families, and that the rent is about 2.8 million marks or 1.4 million euros. It is precisely that fact that it is necessary to open the question of how local authorities are solving social protection problems is very important. As far as concrete legal solutions are concerned, I can say that this part relating to the establishment of a single minimum level of social security on the basis of that attitude and that DSS policy to ensure a balanced burden of transition and the difficult situation in transition during this period. We have, as has been said several times here, the fact that in 122 municipalities the situation was such that the compensation for material security was received below the level established at the level of the Republic. This is something we welcome, and we think it will contribute to the very burden of transition being evenly deployed. What's important to say, what the next provisions are, is that we have stimulation and responsibility. When it comes to stimulation, we have an area of foster care and here we can say that we are completely satisfied with the way that this problem has been solved in the proposed amendments to the law. It also improves the education of families and those who receive socially endangered persons in their care, and it is also the fact that they are stimulated by a certain fee; in case those who are obliged to pay compensation do not pay it, the state until the end of the court dispute and the costs are borne. It is very important, because this area, this foster care issue, is the best way to meet those people who need social protection. As far as the question of responsibility is concerned, we welcome the fact that the regulated question is how the director of a social institution will be elected. For the first time, we have a situation where he has to go out with a program of work. So far, that wasn't the case. We have had a big ride in our institutions on this issue, and now both the competent authorities and the board of directors will have a clear picture of what kind of candidate they will declare. Of course, it is a good thing that the administrative boards of the institution are also being joined by representatives of the users, the guardians, i.e. those who are very interested in how services will be provided, and in this sense we think that they will make a better contribution to formulating policies in these institutions, which would, in fact, be in the interest of the users. A good solution is that it is also possible for social protection institutions to start volunteer work contracts and supplemental work contracts with the unemployed. As I said in the opening part of my presentation, we have a big problem with the staff and the growing need to provide these services. We also have the fact that there are a large number of unemployed in our country. It is this fact that the conclusion of a voluntary and complementary contract is possible that professionalisation and expertise in institutions will be increased, while on the other hand means improving the problem of unemployment. In the end, I want to point out that the inherited problems of the previous period, which I pointed out in the opening part, cannot be solved by some instrument that mentions some imaginary, magical wand here, and I can't do overnight. The only instrument that can contribute to improving the situation in this area in the coming period, for this country to move forward are valid laws. With valid laws, which create conditions to fix the situation, a situation that has been bad for 15 years, with such proposals and instruments, the current government is coming before this parliament and is passing such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4993	The People's MP Branislav Stevanovic came to the floor, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4994	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, whether we admit it or not, we are in an extremely difficult situation, where 40 strikes are held daily in the country of Serbia, and I can say that you are partly right when you say that the main events were from 1990 to 2000. You know the reason for that. It's a war event in our space, because the occupier couldn't have occupied our country economically without any wars. However, we experienced an even greater evil in 2000, with DOS coming to power. The people expected much more: more employment, more productivity and a higher social standard. However, something has happened that I would like to draw attention to Mr. Secretary. You are wrong, Mr. Minister, because I am a member of the Privatisation Committee and I categorically claim that Mr. Vlahovic and Mr. Cvetkovic, director of the Privatisation Directorate, have done great harm to this society. I'm going to talk about it some other time, not just the two of them, but maybe 1,500 to 2,000 criminals who have reversed this society, and the product of all these events, and the fatal brotherly, not to say thieving privatisation is thousands of people on the street. We've had a lot of cases like this, but I wouldn't talk about it this time. Now, the most important thing is that we here, all the parties, act the same as in the situation where we have adopted the resolution on Kosovo, that you, with your vanity, accept all our amendments, and I think that about 16 amendments have been submitted, that you respect them, in order to comply with this law, and that, for starters, we would afford that minimum existence to our fellow citizens. Among other things, I would support Mr. Baralic's amendment, which refers to rural children who lost their parents. The bill states that those who have over half a hectare of the country will not have the right to make up for it. It doesn't make sense because these children are actually left to themselves, so you should keep in mind that this amendment should be supported. As far as the health care office is concerned, things have been pointed out a number of times, but I wouldn't talk about it anymore because my colleagues in the SRS have talked about it a lot, so I wouldn't say it again. Of course, the funds allocated to the establishment of this institution should be used to provide social assistance. There should be social assistance centres at the level of municipalities, and I can already see that there's a kind of independence planned, not to say decentralisation, where you give greater rights to local self-government because it's about the allocation of funds to finance social cases. I would give you a recommendation here, you need to keep in mind the law on local self-government that we have proposed, so that you do the decentralization of the executive authority, as well as this decentralisation. I would disagree with 16% for the individual and 32% for the five-member family. I think that amount is too miserable, small, and that should do more to increase it, because, by some estimate, that assistance for a five-member family is enough just to pay for the electricity for a month and for some loaf of bread. I would warn you, Mr. Minister, that if we had nine million residents, we would not be in charge of 18 billion dollars or euros, so that we would not be in a difficult economic crisis, that our grandchildren and great-grandsons would curse us for this amount of damage. In the end, I don't know if it's a coincidence or the intention that this law is just being passed at a time when preparations for the local elections are under way, as was the repayment of loans for Serbia's economic rebirth, which comes back at the end of August. I think it's more advice from your coalition partners, the SPS, or maybe you're following their examples from earlier events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4995	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4996	With this bill, the government is essentially trying to continue DOS policy in the area of social policy. The previous composition of the Dossow government has been working on new definitions of poverty and this bill is practically an upgrade of that concept. So that some people don't criticise me as I constantly dispute the laws, there are some things in this law that I can commend. This may be the only law that can rightly be contrary to the Constitution, for the simple reason that the Constitution does not promote poverty and poverty, but gives life an opportunity. And, every regulation that has life in mind and an effort to ensure, as much as that, well-being deserves praise. However, this law, apparently, has only in good intentions, but when the provisions are looked at, what changes, how changes and how much changes are made, then the goal is not achieved. It's not even partially achieved. As the change in labour legislation has not achieved that goal, but rather the opposite objective, so this termological change in the level of social security to a minimum level of social security does not essentially mean anything. You remember that we've had opportunities from those experts who don't even know what a social product is, they don't even know that they're doing a cause-consequent analysis of what's a fact, who accuses someone of losing a social product in a ten-year period; so of course it's a lost social product, because this people have fought for life and saved more than a third of that social product. The fact is that the 6.5 billion did not come on September 24, 2000, the fact is that there was a huge aid from abroad, debt was cut off, so the fact is that the economy is in an even more difficult state. The fact is "start for property", which has turned into a wasteland and the fact is that finally someone forgot to convince us of active social policy. Of course, when you analyse that law that last year, a union official as a minister proposed, which is a law on employment and security and rights during temporary unemployment, when after three or six months or maybe a year a man who has lost his job is left without that fee, of course he becomes a social case. So it becomes a social case and then goes into the area of social protection. The entire mandatory insurance system was not very good for us and could not live for the simple reason that the economy is not working, which is what one of the DOS leaders in Prokuplje said in September 2000 - we'll burn everything if we don't win. It was necessary that only the Assembly be lit, according to Batic, three computers and two curtains. Of course, if the economy doesn't work, then neither does active nor any other social policy. However, this bill is full of free wills and false premises. Unwittingly, the promoter did well to promote, for the first time in seven or eight years, a principle stemming from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic guarantees social security to citizens, incompetent and those who do not have enough means to live. Since it guarantees it, it guarantees it throughout its territory and it is good that it has finally started to be used as a criterion of the republican average, but it is not good that the criteria that relate to the immediate environment, the municipality, where the user of social protection lives. Obviously, the right solution is the combination of those two conditions. Here's an example of this: we have recently had elections, and I have to tell you that in the municipalities of Trgovište, the bear trade flourishes on the day when members of the electoral board in the extended composition receive compensation for working on the day of elections, the 1,500 dinars mean a lot to one family; then no wonder that in Knjižvec a woman was gunned down for not being a member of the election board broke the box. Look what that 1,500 dinars meant to her. This law cannot fix what is in the sphere of the economy, a new definition of new poverty does not help, does not heal the wounds, the social situation can be improved if the economy works, but we have been passing laws here for two weeks that I can absolutely claim are in function that it is not working. I don't know if it's next, it's a value added tax that's going to make things more complicated with its nebulos. Nothing was done to make the economy work. As far as our farm is concerned, it's not good when it's not born, and it's worse when it's born. You can't agree on the price of protection, so throw yourself away, something's wrong, something's not working. The direction the government's moving is wrong. There's nothing that can come out of the ashes, and you can be sure of that. You don't have to destroy what's there, so you have to keep it safe, because everything that comes from the side, it's that cheese in that mouse hunter. On the subject of the amendment, we're going to analyse all these members where we've submitted the amendments and we're going to point out the shortcomings, we're going to point out that it went halfway, we're going to show what it's going to mean to change this law. This change will not do any good, as nothing good will happen if 250 MPs vote in favour of this bill. There's nothing good coming from that fact, because in our reality, in our economy and in the wrong laws that are supposed to fix something... For the rest of the time that belongs to me, I'd like to point out one devastating thing that the government is doing. Two months ago, the SRS proposed to amend this law and introduce a special right, which is a special right to material security enjoyed by individuals and families living in Kosovo and Metohija. The government did not reject it, but gave the opinion that its bill would more comprehensively regulate it. Unfortunately, there is no part of this bill. If the promoter thinks that what was the initial idea, which is how to help people, is found in Articles 2 and 3. The bill of law, then she was very wrong. You must not buy stories about the ban on the existence of parallel institutions in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. With every law, we have to prove that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and that we have sovereignty in that territory, no matter how strange it seems to someone, someone is painful, and someone is pretending to be a great visionary, politician, and he says, "It's not a chance to write it, not to go in the eye of some." No, we are leading policy primarily because of our citizens, not because of the occupiers, and it would be much clearer and clearer for everyone to regulate this special right to material security with several provisions, if necessary, and to change the proper regulation that would provide and purposely direct funds for families living today in Kosovo and Metohija. This way we have one game of words from which everyone can conclude anyway, so that at some point the government says, yes, in that article we were thinking about Kosovo and Metohija, and in another situation to say - no, we didn't mean it. We were thinking about patching up some social gaps, as it is, however, very broadly, and probably incorrectly given, it is said - in cases of exceptional endangerment of the life standard of a large number of citizens. It doesn't really mean anything. A major threat and an exceptional threat to the standards of a large number of citizens is present in all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, on every street, may not be on Senjak and Dedinj, but go anywhere, the standard is extremely vulnerable to all. Something you did as an intervention in Article 10 of the Law by entering a new attitude 2, which essentially means nothing. To not get me wrong, I think that the Constitution promotes life and that it's a good thing that you gave in a special way, if not a definition, then a presummation of what is considered to be incompetent to work and that there is not enough means to live; in an indirect way, you gave it broadly, that's good, but the levels of social security guaranteed by this law are below every criterion. If you think for a five-member family the minimum level of social security should be 32% of gross earnings, to use that term, then you've really been wrong, because 32% make it 6.000.00 dinars. Those polling at B92 with 12,000,00 dinars know how they went. Someone say what formula it takes for a five-member family to settle all municipal services and secure a basic existence of 5,000-6,000, so there are 10,000 dinars in this account of yours. There's no mathematician who can make that math to survive with such small resources. You didn't take care of it, you stuck to percentages, budget options or inability. That's why this law is wrong. We've tried amendments to show you which direction to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4997	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4998	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, just briefly, with the amendment and addition of this same law, which was removed from the agenda last year, the SPS submitted a total of 12 amendments. Whether because these amendments were of a higher quality or because people who had made changes and amendments to this law had similar criteria, nine of those 12 amendments were incorporated into amendments and additions to this law now. We have remained principled and we have submitted only three amendments that are not now covered by amendments and additions to this law. Once again, I ask all fellow Members of the People's Parliament for support of the amendment, which defines Article 3a, and yesterday I have explained and I hope I get the support of fellow Members of Parliament. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support the amendments and additions to this law for reasons that Mr. Zivodarka Dacin and I presented behind the pay phone. We therefore believe that the adoption of amendments to this law for a large number of people in these 122 municipalities in Serbia will improve their position on the basis of a different construction of censors and for new 13,000 families in Serbia. With this in mind, we take responsibility for supporting the vote of amendments and the addition of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u4999	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136 of Article 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5000	Ladies and gentlemen, a fellow MP here earlier told a lie, which is that we from the SRS are calling for strikes in Serbia. I know and I understand that you're afraid of the fact that a lot of citizens are behind the SRS and that we could even do that, but we won't. We are really legalists, Democrats, unlike you. Don't be afraid, we don't call for rebellion. Also, I was impressed by this colleague when he said this law was passed because it was going to apply. I really thought that all the laws were passed because they were applied; however, you, Mr. Lalovic, are applying a law that wasn't passed, so maybe it's not even a surprise comment like this. I have made an amendment to Article 1 because the proposed solution is cynical and ironic. You expect someone in need of social protection to pay the cost of the procedure to achieve that social protection. If anyone can pay a tax, then I guess they don't even need social protection. This would be a spill from the hollow to the blank. Since they're such high administrative fees on local self-government, so citizens will pay those taxes, and then you'll pay them back through social charges after that. It would have been better, Minister, if you had made one recommendation to local self-government that in such a difficult economic situation and the lack of citizens of Serbia would have reduced the administrative tax and expanded the number of citizens who were freed from paying administrative fees. You know, you are expected to care more fully about the social protection of Serbian citizens, and every day in Serbia are new groups of citizens who need social protection. At the edge of the existence are health workers, and employees in education and employees in the judiciary, some already strike, some strike, some prepare to strike. Indeed, you will put Serbian citizens in a position that no one will be able to work anymore. Some, as you promised, will fire 40% of public enterprises from work, and these others will strike because they can't live off the salary they get. Now, no one will be able to work, no one will be able to work, except you at the Ministry, and especially if they raise your salary by 170% as requested. As never before, the Serbian government has brought honest and honest peasants to Serbia's situation that they have come to the brink of existence and that, unfortunately, they too seem to be the recipients of social protection. You should have seen, Minister, the other day a picture of a quantum market in Zemun when a peasant took down a dozen sacks of cabbage from his truck and his own truck ran over that cabbage, because it's not worth raising. When you called here earlier, you said you'd comment if you thought it was important. Mr. Secretary, I guess everything any MP has to say about this speaker is important to you. You say there's talk here about redundancies in Serbia. You're talking about surpluses, you're that messenger who brings bad news. Also, it would really be time for you to stop talking about inherited problems. I guess you're the one who should be smart and able to solve those inherited problems. One government passed, another government came, so as long as you return to these inherited problems. Let's go ahead and solve these problems. By the way, Minister, you said here -- I'll give you all kinds of information; let's inform us what would happen to those lost child support bonds and why these bonds don't come true anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5001	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Albianic, then Minister Lalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5002	I'd be entitled to a replica, but I'm advertising article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because a colleague threatens the dignity of the National Assembly -- she said the previous MP is lying. My colleague, I'll tell you a few things. You did not negotiate with the Paris Club, but the G17 Plus leaders; you did not negotiate with the London Club, but the G17 Plus leaders; you did not negotiate for the wheat, but leader G17 Plus. I told you something, but you didn't seem to understand me very well. The negotiations for wheat have been successfully completed, and we leave you negotiations for straw.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5003	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that I've memorized everything the G17 leaders plus held negotiations on. It's true, I'm stupid, you're very smart. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Now let's see if I can remember everything. (President: I beg you once again, as before, do not insult the messengers of the people. Here you go. Mr. Vukic is a National MP for the Serbian Parliament and I do not allow anyone to insult him. Please respond to the replica. ) Mr. Markovic, leave these matches to the chairmanship of your party, and do not use them in the Assembly. (President: I warn you twice about this expression. Here you go. Don't beg me, because that's true, Mr. Markovic. Since we've established that you're very smart, I'd say genius, so experts, in one word, and I'm not particularly smart, I admit, to see if I remember everything. He says they've negotiated with the Paris Club, the London Club, that they've negotiated for wheat, about the ransom price of grain. There's something else you've been negotiating. Here's what I remember, what you were negotiating. You left us around the straw to negotiate. You negotiated, first of all, with the best men of the mafia, how much money to give you and how much more Serbia needs to rob. Why the power goes out in Serbia, that no one knows, that no one responds, only every day the electricity accumulates so that the best men of the mafia will be charged and settled, the godmothers of the mafia that you support. You say you've negotiated the price of grain. You did negotiate, and you cheated on the peasants again, not for the first time, but for who knows which time. He says it's going to be 8.50 dinars. You won't pay them that either. You're cheating on them again, just like you cheated on them when you were talking about the triple-largest agrarian budget. What else did you negotiate? You've been negotiating with someone, whether they were marshals or godfathers, but from the Marshall Islands, I don't know what they are and I don't know what you were negotiating there, all I know is that a lot of money's gone from Serbia. It is only very important about the negotiations in which the leaders of your political parties participated. What you're doing, it's enough for the people and the citizens of Serbia to listen. We let you go, you're no longer interesting to us, you're somewhere on one, two percent, you're fighting for this new proposed two percent censorship, to enter parliament, or you're going to knock on the open door, like some other in this assembly. It will be the only way to see it, and on the postcard, what -- Belgrade at night, take pictures of the Serbian Parliament, or on TV, the Third Channel, as you monitor the transmission. Since all this is so, we leave you alone, we don't touch you, but you don't know what you're going to do with yourself, you're going out, and the only theme is your SRS and your only target, because nothing else in your life can talk. The only thing you can say, it's -- radicals are like this, radicals are like that. (President: Time. You're a genius, you're the greatest experts on the globe of the Earth, but don't do your professional work in this country anymore. Eat up some other country, leave Serbia alone, we'll be better and easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5005	Mr. Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Before I give you my word, Mr. Albianic, once again, I will not allow the MPs to be offended, I will take away the word. It's not just about you, it's about every next speaker. This has gone too far. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5006	I'm re-advertising Article 100, because for the assembly speaker, qualifications can be presented without any responsibility, to insult people without any responsibility. So G17 plus has a very big responsibility. I forgot to add that we successfully negotiated with the IMF and the World Bank. We know that we are leading both foreign and domestic policy, unlike some who say that foreign policy is both east and west, which means it's not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5007	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what your foreign policy is, but I know what our foreign policy is. The right to tell you, in that foreign policy of yours I never understood, it was never very clear to me. As far as the foreign policy of the SRS is concerned, it is quite clear. It is the policy that should be in the interest of Serbian citizens. Today, I received representatives from the German parliament, representatives of the Bundestags were in the SRS and we discussed, of course, Kosovo and Metohija as a key problem, because some falsely informed parliamentary groups, so they deliberately left out radicals, and the Bundestag people specifically wanted to hear what the most powerful and the biggest political party in Serbia had to say on this issue, especially the party that received 70% of the Serb votes in Kosovo and Metohija. We talked about it, but we also talked about the help that came to Serbia, which these people today told us they didn't know where it was all and how it was spent, because it came much more to Serbia than to some other countries, and they don't know where that money went missing. I'm sure you've been negotiating about the disappearance of that money. With who, I'm not sure. As for the insults I've been making, I've tried not to make a single insult. I'm not going to insult anyone, I'm trying to speak up, and that's why I'm also talking about who you are, even though you accused us of not being able to do this for reasons I don't know what, so today we're telling him that he's going to be responsible for not breaking the chains and locks, because he supported Tadic in the second election round, but we're saying the same thing to you, because there's no real difference between you. That's why you fight so much. Let me tell you one more thing. You say - insults; I said you're very smart, I said you're almost a genius, I said I'm not particularly smart and I don't know what's offensive to you. It may be offensive to the citizens of Serbia, but there is absolutely nothing offensive for you. I would like you to use your mind in a different way and think, first of all, about how in Serbia, because you control both economic resources and economic ministries, to start production, how to work factories. Instead of figuring out how to attack Serbian radicals, how to spend money on stupid performances against the strongest political party in Serbia, think about how to get Serbia up at six and seven in the morning, see smoke from factories and how people can live off their work. Then you'd show that you're far more responsible, instead of going out for the pay phone, so come on, I'm gonna hit the SRS, 'cause I don't have anyone else, and I had to team up with everyone else to have the right to attack someone from the SRS. There are many of you, and you're too small to be afraid of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5009	Minister Lalovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5010	One sentence regarding this first amendment. Why couldn't we accept this first amendment given to this Article 1? Because if he were accepted, then users of accommodation in high capacity conditions, in luxurious conditions would not pay the costs. The amendment was unacceptable and it came into an absurd situation that those who have money do not pay accommodation costs, and otherwise the rule is that users of all these services do not pay any cost. So if we had adopted that, then we would have made it possible for those with money to use without paying.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5011	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5012	We need to distinguish some things. The costs of the procedure are one thing, and the costs of the accommodation are another. That's two completely different things. Any person who submits a request to exercise a social protection right shall not bear the costs of the procedure. This shall be governed by Article 1(3) or Article 8(3). It's a bill of law. Another very important thing. I must warn the motionor of Article 39. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "Citizens who are partly able to work are guaranteed training for the proper job and conditions for their employment are provided, in accordance with the law. "And attitude 2 concerning this law directly, which is the only member that regulates the right to social security of citizens in the Republic of Serbia in terms of freedom, rights and duties. The second stance, which we are talking about today, says about this bill, "The state provides social security to citizens who are incompetent to work and do not have the means to support. "I recently commended you for overcoming this, for giving a broad definition of what can be interpreted as incompetence to work. In this Article 1. The bill of law, which touches the costs of the procedure... These are the costs of the procedure, you get these persons, persons who are in a state of social need, persons who are crying for material security or any other service of social protection. You want to charge services, not services, but costs of the process. When you said if it is unfounded, if someone lives in Senjak, Dedinj, they have 200,000 euros in income like Karic, so they play with the Social Labour Centro, so they apply for social assistance, so you charge him the costs of the procedure, but this is not the situation. Minister, you just made a mistake. Mrs. Radeta has submitted an amendment relating to the costs of the procedure, not to the costs of the accommodation, as you went out and explained here. The costs of the procedure are those costs incurred by the Centre for Social Work, to seduce the request, to process it, to get the social worker to check something, to study it, to make a record, to sit down the college and to consider what kind of social services should be provided or, if it is just material security, to take the request, to check the certificates, etc. These are the costs of the procedure, and the costs of accommodation, that is when they are placed in a gerontological centre or another institution of social protection, so there are food costs. You've got it all wrong. The article you wrote refers to the procedure, and you told us about the cost of accommodation, it's grandmothers and frogs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5013	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Rajko Baralic and Milan Jankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5014	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which should read: "The right to special material security is recognised to an individual, or family who has a permanent and uninterrupted residence on the territory of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija for more than five years, starting on 24 March 1999, who are not temporarily displaced from Kosovo and Metohija and who as victims of occupation, violence and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija are unable to achieve incomes or achieve them below the level of social protection." I think the minister should accept this amendment, and I will try a few more sentences to further explain why this amendment is necessary. The first reason is: if the users of the Kosovo budget and the Metohija working relationship receive double amounts, then why also the beneficiaries of the budgets receiving social protection or material security would not receive those double amounts. Some MPs have objected to me that this amendment allegedly refers only to Serbs and does not refer to others. Here it is nice and clear - the right to special material security is recognised to an individual, or family. It is not stressed that it refers to Serbian families. Why not give this social assistance to both non-Albanian and Albanian families, and to those Shiptars who want to recognise the state of Serbia, because they are also some of the Shyptarian traditions of terror victims in Kosovo and Metohija. All those who recognise the state of Serbia, who want rights, but who have obligations, should be allowed to apply rights based on this amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club. The dream of Kosovo's independence finally, probably definitely spread around the Shipar, and I look forward to the day when the Shipari will recognise the state of Serbia and start living with us, because they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it should be clear to all. I would ask Mr. Minister, who knows which way, to find the strength and opportunity to accept this amendment, because the life of Serbs would make life much easier, especially those who cannot make the incomes and live below that minimum, as it stands in this bill. Article 18 defines who has conditions for the exercise of rights. Under 1) - incomes generated in the monthly amount and the average monthly income... The fact is that in Kosovo absolutely nothing in the economy is working and there are no incomes, and this condition is being met. Second - coming from agricultural labour. So Serbs own properties, but they have no conditions to process these properties or if they process them, it's at great risk that when they go to the field to sow it or pick up the harvest they can lose their lives, and we have many examples that Serbs have died right on their property. Third, the income from the issue in the lease of immovable or movable property. How much of this property has been destroyed, burned down; let us consider that these families have neither their own property nor that they live in collective centres. The displaced persons are not only in Serbia, but the displaced Serbs are also in Kosovo and Metohija, the one who escaped from Vučitrn and went to Prilujje, or from Vučitrn came to Kosovo Mitrovica has the status of a displaced person, regardless of which he did not go to the Kingdom, Arangelovac, Belgrade. Such citizens need help. The state must not hesitate to help the endangered Serbs in Kosovo, but should make every effort to enable Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to live easier. Fourthly, income from other property rights, if those incomes are not paid tax. This tax-paying instrument does not exist at all, no one pays any taxes, so there is no basis to allow citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija to exercise certain rights, some incomes, so that they can provide themselves and their family with life. Again, this is not so many families to meet, but we would take a big step forward to help these families solve their existential issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5015	Thank you. Minister Lalovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5016	Just one piece of information regarding this amendment. When it comes to Serbs, non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, who are in this part where they are in most, where things work, they are otherwise in our social protection system. We've got more welfare centers there, the mechanism is what it is. When a right is required to cross the Social Labour Centre, the whole process ends through the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre. It may not be known, that there and how the state of Serbia works, in that segment. What's important about this amendment, which I want to point out, is that for those who work there, there is a conclusion that a double amount is being paid. It is also true that those who do not work downstairs, who have lost their jobs, do not belong to the social welfare community, are receiving cash compensation for the unemployed at the level at which they are admitted throughout Serbia. Those who work downstairs get a double amount compared to what they get to work here, in central Serbia's territory, and this is obviously about people who don't work, I'm talking about material security, like those who are temporarily unemployed and are down in Kosovo and Metohija. I mean, this is the same principle for those who work. The government remains able to go with a double amount for those who do not work, such as those who are temporarily unemployed, such as those who, under this law, will gain those rights. There goes the same amount as in central Serbia. I think it's a good logic of the system. I think it's a system where they feel like citizens of Serbia, evenly, I'm talking about that second part. My ministry, within the framework of social policy, has the utmost respect and we are working to ensure that these rights are achieved. They are not deprived of their rights, like all other citizens of Serbia, and those working downstairs receive a double amount. That's the logic of the system. I don't think we can break the system this way. On the other hand, I think the logic of the system is equalizing all citizens. Thirdly, to respect the state of Serbia's system and interests, it is that they are really in our social protection system, to feel like Serbian citizens, by exercising their rights with the institutions of the system, or the institutions of the state of Serbia, which is a fact. I think that's the key thing. If there is a need and a possibility to give something more to someone in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs and non-Albanians living in this part, there the law opened up an opportunity that was mentioned in some way, but in another context. You have seen in this bill that for the first time there is a legal possibility and that the Serbian government has a legal basis for making one-time payments to particularly vulnerable groups. As this is set out, there will be a legal possibility, if there are funds, moods and anything else, that certain particularly endangered parts of the population, populations and groups will be given additional financial assistance without the collapse of the entire system. The adoption of this law creates legal opportunities to possibly respond by some additional means below, but I think that accepting your approach, because I see that a series of amendments go in that direction, by following this first one, would not be good, because this would lead to problems in the functioning of the system; we have opportunities, if there is a need, to further help not only Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, but perhaps some other endangered citizens. To say something that is very important, and perhaps not known, that absolutely all Serbs in Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, anywhere down in enclaves, Caglavica etc. are in the social protection system of the Republic of Serbia; besides, we have some investments down there, we will build a new gerontological centre at Kosovo Mitrovica, that is, a reception station. We all need to keep this in mind together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5017	Thank you. On the occasion of the same amendment, Mr Krasic. Be kind, Mr Kragovic, you are not mentioned in any offensive context. If you think you're misread, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5018	Mr. Minister, I have not claimed for a moment that there is no social protection for Serbs in Kosovo, that there are no centres for social work. There are, but I have pointed out that Serbs who have been in Kosovo and Metohija for the past five years have not received a single dinar or through any kind of social assistance. They were neglected. Lately, those who are employed in the economy have begun to receive these receipts. However, this amount is not enough for individual families. I'm talking about those who meet those conditions, that this archaic, like those who work and make applications, and those who don't work and have no living conditions. It's not a big item. It won't be very many families, but we have to help them. First of all, I mean those people who had to leave their home, their hearth in Kosovo Mitrovica, Caglavica, Gracans, but went from one place to another, for example. The new village of Madunsko doesn't exist, they're all in Prilujje. He has his own property, his own house, but it's burned down and he can't process the property. He can't achieve it, and I'm saying he's never known those rights before. Minimum is those people who will come looking for this amount. Therefore, if we could double this amount, such as for those who are in a working relationship, we might create conditions to help these families most at risk in Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, as for being proud, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have no other sentence except that they are Serbian citizens. As far as the Gerontological Center in Kosovo Mitrovica is concerned, it is Skadar on Bojana. I don't know where you came from. That gerontological center was built three years ago, and it doesn't exist anywhere. The funds are placed, spent, and there's no gerontological center. Now something's started to happen again. A very small amount is needed if this amendment is accepted, it is a very small number of families for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but one big act, to take care of people who cannot provide themselves with living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5019	Thank you. Ambassador Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5020	Of course this is a good amendment. I am surprised that those who do not accept this amendment in some way admit that they are politicians, too, as it is advertised not to be a politician. He kills himself by explaining, first the salad, then the hooks, then the chains, and so on. You know, in the election campaign, he used that no one ever listened to him, and he has a program for everything. So that he would no longer explain to people who he is, whether or not he is a politician, we suggested amending and supplementing the law. We took advantage of the opportunity to put what we have proposed in our law in the form of amendments on your bill. Mr Kragovic explained nicely to you that we advocate the introduction of a special right, the right to material security, which would be located so that users of this right are only persons who meet the conditions that Mr Kragovic has read. Of course, this applies to the people of Kosovo and Metohija, who live in difficult conditions, under occupation, and then this story of yours about the minimum level of social security doesn't really mean anything. There is some level of social security; it cannot be minimal or maximum. If you're already using the word "minimum," it means there's another level of social security. And he's out of the law. So at first, I said, we went over the laptop that you used, which doesn't mean anything in the whole context of this law, but can we talk about a minimum level of social security that applies, for example? Kosovo Mitrovica. For most things there is a means of paying the euro. There are entirely some other prices. The statistical processing of life, the one being monitored, the economy, the economy, the growth, etc., almost doesn't exist. And, now, people who are crying out for help so they can stay in their homes, because they're keeping us all there practically, we bring the minister out and say, "We're evening it to be the same." Well, it can't be the same in Belgrade and Kosovo Mitrovica. It can't possibly be the same. When I first said it was good that you gave a broad interpretation of an institution first of all I thought of this. No one will blame you for that. No one will blame you if you give it to them. And you have directed Mr Kragovic and these MPs from Kosovo and Metohija to explain to our citizens there - you submit a request, so contact Covic. You haven't changed it in seven months, people. You can't change him. He's complaining about you taking over his accounts and the ministries haven't taken office. You know, the opposition doesn't serve to keep you as calm as you can fight. We can't reconcile you. What you're fighting about, it's your political problem, but why would someone suffer because of that fight of yours? That's why we're calling, so we're criticizing. The level of social security and security in Kosovo and Metohija is poor, there is no, it is not good, we want to improve. That's why at first I said - if you need additional funds... The representative of a political party represented here, when we talked about excise duties on cigarettes, gave one proposal -- here, that from tomorrow each pack has its own dedicated part that goes to Kosovo and Metohija. The same government laughed. They thought it was funny, so it happened March 17th, and who knows what else is gonna happen. They need to be encouraged by these people, to realize that they have a state behind them. We're all behind them. Let's help them -- that's the least they can do. Now, if we conduct a legal-technical and legal-logical analysis of what you've done, Article 2 in relation to paragraph 1 of the existing law does not mean anything. I have to tell you that. Interpreting can do it anyway. If you wanted to replace what was in Mr Kragovic's amendment with this attitude, then you failed even remotely. I'd even say you've ruined things. And for what you wrote, you really don't have cover in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You don't have a cover, because I was just quoting Article 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which looks differently at the social protection that is in the jurisdiction of the state, that part of the social protection guaranteed by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5021	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Rajko Baralic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5022	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, quite briefly - I've been trying to question something that can be challenged from the point of view of the spirit and the principles that are in this law, and I've tried to from the point of view to define the amendment of a special group of young people and to present it to you, to give arguments and to ask for your support. That's a very delicate question. Let me just say a few more sentences about it. Children without parents, if their parents are farmers, regardless of the size of their property, have severe and special problems during their lives and education. In this law, there is one member who says that half a hectare is a limit for someone to exercise any right and the like. I remind you once again, and please, there is no family in Serbia whose fosterer died behind whom the remaining children are able to maintain at least the status quo over the next 15 years. That's impossible. My amendment goes to these kids, while they're in the regular schooling process, getting material security. This is where it's supposed to be said. The Ministry and Mr. Minister are the address to which this should be addressed. I've tried this before, on several occasions, to do the same. It didn't pass. I tried some other things, but I must say, not with regard to this law, but with regard to financial and other laws, that the draft law on the right of movement of goods did not pass my amendment to allow farmers to have a basic herd, a swarm of bees, a flock of fish, could be the basis for the law, although Professor Orlic then assured me, and he wrote the law, Minister Djelic represented the law, that it would be regulated in some other way. Unfortunately, it never is. So, the peasants didn't get a chance to get a certain loan as others who could pawn a gold bracelet. I only say this as a small icon, that is, to show that we do not treat people who live and work in the country as we often do during our political activities and in election campaigns or elsewhere. Fortunately, these children, which I am trying to represent here with you today and to provide them with this level of material security, are not much in Serbia. Of course, for those whose family has one, two or more children, that would be a valuable help. Once again, I ask all MP groups to show little good will and support this amendment only at the level of their own conscience and their own understanding of this problem, because it corrects a long-standing injustice. I have to say it doesn't matter and it doesn't have to be anyway, especially for those of us who represent the interests of the citizens here, whether someone just because his parents died has no right to get any help from their country. Also, I want to say that the price of property in Serbia has been drastically reduced, that the price of renting property in Serbia has been drastically reduced. So if the family is unable to process their property, there is no way to provide enough financial resources for the family to support themselves and for the children to be educated. Children who have no parents and who have no material security are children who are condemned to face these problems in life in one drastic way, have no chance of being helped by anyone other than members of the family, if that is possible. My request is for us to help everyone. I believe, if you've ever looked into their eyes, to understand why I'm saying this and I want to help those whose eyes deserve to say these few sentences and I hope, your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5023	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5024	The amendment submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by our colleague Igor Mirovic is in line with the SRS social policy, and this policy is not a demagogy, as it was heard here, but demagogy is what the government is offering here and those who support the government and its views. Here, several times today, and yesterday, she heard a replacement thesis that we from the SRS are rebelling and we are bothered because the amount of social giving in Ivanjica will increase, because it should be evened throughout Serbia. Gentlemen, that's not true. We don't mind increasing social benefits in Ivanjica, for example, but we do not mind reducing social benefits in Novi Sad. We are in favour of equalising social giving and we are in favour of being an equal family with two members or with several members, and in that very sense, it is our amendment. The minister said here yesterday when he represented the law that the Ministry and the Government were a target group of families. If your target group is a family, Mr. Minister, then I believe you will adopt the SRS amendment to Article 4, because, you know, every family in Serbia has certain costs. Everyone has to and should pay for electricity, which has cost the largest number of families these days, each should pay for municipal services, each in Serbia should pay for spent water and, imagine, a tax on spent water. For this reason, the SRS has proposed that the level of social security for the exercise of the right to special material security, within the meaning of Article 10(2). The social protection law and the provision of citizens' social security determines a percentage amount of 35,000 dinars for an individual 50% of that amount and for a family of 100% of that amount, as it is evident that the amount of 35,000 dinars is minimum for a normal family life in Serbia. We know, of course, that there are many employees, i.e. they don't have that much income, but that's also the concern of the government and the citizens of Serbia expect the government to do something to solve this problem. We in the SRS don't expect it, because we know this is an incompetent government, because we know that part of this government is being criminalized. We talked about it to Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens said that we have the largest number of MPs in this assembly. We really expect the government, or the government minister, to accept this amendment here, because it is proposed to a member where the government proposes that the minimum level of social security for the month of September 2004 be determined in a percentage amount of the base made by the average income per employee in the Republic, and then: an individual - 16% of it, a family with two members - 22%, a family with three members - 28%; with four members - 30% and families with five and more members - 32%. Then the minister tried to convince us here that it wasn't 4,300 dinars for a five-member family, but it was all 6,000 dinars. There's something else that's been heard here, namely, one colleague mentioned refugee status, and it's really terrible that this law doesn't see evasive, exiled and temporarily displaced faces in any way. We have seen the position of the minister and the government when it comes to families living in Kosovo and Metohija, so that we can expect to take care of evasive, exiled and displaced persons in some way. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to warn you that there has been more than an hour of breach of article 117. The Rules of Procedure, because every MP is required when he leaves the room to bring his identification card. In the sixth row you have four MPs and six cards, in the first row you have one MP and two cards, so please reset this state and determine how many of us there really are. So I'm not asking for a quorum, I'm asking for the respect of Article 117. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5025	Please, we'll determine the quorum so that those cards that are left... Please insert the cards into your identification units. Since it's obvious we don't have a quorum, we'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5026	Please confirm the quorum. Put your cards in your units. We have a quorum. We're continuing our work. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) So, on the occasion of the amendment to Article 4, Zoran Krasic wants to.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5027	With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the situation when it comes to the social protection of individuals and families in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I think the government's representatives have come to understand that this is essentially the addition of an existing article 11. The law. However, in order not to repeat what has already been said about the level and level of social protection and amounts, I would only comment on what the Government is changing in Article 11. You see, with a new attitude, first of all, you say that the minimum level of social security in September 2004... It's not good for something that should be the basis and the standard to be defined in law, to be bound by a month and a few years. It wouldn't be good, no matter what you're talking about in the following attitudes about the methodology of how it's all coordinated, but it's not right when a legal standard is written to cross a certain date and a certain state, but it's one objective way of talking about something that can be measured. In that sense, the existing Article 11(1) is a more quality norm and you could have done all of this if you had just changed the words that applied to the municipality and introduced a republican average. I have to draw your attention, you say that the minimum level of social security in September is determined in a percentage amount of the base that makes up the average earnings made per employee in the Republic in the second quarter. The second quarter is the fourth, fifth and sixth months, we're talking about the law to be used in the seventh month. You've thrown out the sixth month, so you'll get something, as you call it -- a minimum level of social security, as a rapper to determine whether someone meets the conditions for the exercise of the right to material security, and later you have in some provisions, when a request is made, where a previous month, two months, or possibly three months before the application is made. There's always a hole in the reckoning, and that reckoning will be unreal if the synchronization only binds to the so-called. growth, i.e. changes in one statistical data, and these are the cost of living. I'll go back to that discussion yesterday. In this way, the base increases seemingly, but through coordination, it takes a lower percentage of the statistical rate and slows down not only growth, but defines the level of poverty practically and then we get an absolutely unrealistic picture. When you read this argument, you can conclude that there are 24,000 families in this country that are poor, and the rights under this law are supposed to be made by another 13,000 families and then you've reached some number of about 40,000 families. So, 40,000 families; let's make it four times, you'll get very easy to get information that only 160,000 people in this country are having a hard time living, which of course isn't real. Why isn't it real? Because as a level of social security, something that is so low that if you were to admit 100% to people, and not to bind to percentages of 16%, 32%, but 100% to recognise as a level of social security, people would still be poor and not be able to meet the elemental needs. So this is about a statistical and mathematical pretumbation with a loss of one month, or two months, I mean July and August, in the account, which gives a repercussion when it comes to, I think, a member of 18 and these later members. So other than this intervention we're proposing with the amendment, and as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, you're going to have problems with this text that you've entered as a norm, because you'll always have an unreal picture. You seem to be solving something, and nothing is actually being solved, but it's just stopping at a low level. That's what the previous minister did when it came to pension and disability insurance, but then they found the formula to go with average growth, so they took the price rise for a little bit, the cost of living, and it turned out to be unrealistic. You've now taken an even lower percentage, which won't be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5028	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5029	Article 5 The draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act refers to Article 12 of the basic law. In the first position of that Article 12, it states that the right to material security has an individual, or a family that has no income or has a lower income than the minimum level of social security established by this law under the condition of etc. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic submitted an amendment that in this position erases the word "minimum", because it is really not clear what the legislator is in this position in Article 12. The level of social security either exists or does not exist. As soon as someone is below the level of social security, it's probably a minimum level of social security, and I don't know what a mediocre or maximum level of social security would mean. That's why we think it would be good, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment to the SRS parliamentary group, because it really doesn't touch the essence of your bill, but we think it certainly helps to make a real point. If it stays like this, then we can wonder if this minimum level of social security is measured by who can last more without food, because a man is either hungry or not hungry, or he can buy lunch or he can't buy lunch. What does "minimum" or "maximum" mean? Whether you will or do not know by whose will, perhaps by the will of this institution that you have introduced as a special organization, you are through this law determining what is the minimum level of social security. Did you, on the basis of this yet unadopted law, predict that the workers of Elektro-distribution are above this minimum level of social protection, when, as they say this morning, you stole (not you personally, but the government) 50% of their monthly earnings and that is why they are on strike today. That's why they did it this morning -- that's what I was telling you, Minister, but you spoke to a colleague from your MP group, so you didn't hear me, and I'm saying now I'm saying -- that's what I'm saying -- that's what I'm saying -- that's what I'm saying -- that's what I was telling you, the ministers, but you were talking to a colleague from your MP group, so you didn't hear me, and I'm saying now I'm saying -- that's what I'm going to say -- that's what I'm going to say -- that's what I'm saying to you, uh, they're coming to you, uh, uh, they're going to the, uh, uh, uh, uh, they're going to the, uh, uh, they's what I're talking to you know, uh, uh, they're talking to you know, uh, they're talking to you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, they're going to you know, they're going to you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, they're going to you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, they's, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, They were just about to see you, because they knew this law was on the agenda, so they were expecting to be able to talk to the minister specifically. These workers have said that the Serbian government has been stealing 50% of their salary for four years, and you, ministers, and the Serbian government must take care of all citizens of Serbia, especially the socially endangered citizens in Serbia, must make sure that there are certain monthly obligations that unfortunately cannot be paid by many employees, let alone those who are not employed and subject to the application of this social protection law. You know as well as I do that the electricity has accumulated, and that the collection has caught up with the largest number of families in Serbia. You know well that the citizens of Serbia, which is a miracle of miracles, pay taxes on spent water, Mr. Minister; and you haven't heard from the minister since you called, have not asked Dinkic to cancel the tax, and should have. In such a way as to conduct social and economic policy by the Serbian government, even below this minimum level of social security, if they are not already citizens, or workers in health care, education, in the judicial administration, and all of them, imagine irony, will get, like, a raise of wages. The minister of justice here asked us to raise significant court fees to employees in the judiciary or the health minister announced an increase in salaries in health care. Of these strong promises the nurses received 200 dinars of higher salary... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) )......................................................................................................... In the court administration, 180 dinars is a higher salary. Mr. Minister, don't let the government of which you are a member of the people who are employed in these areas, and especially don't let you mock, and you obviously mock the National Assembly, because you don't listen to the MPs, but that's why we're going to talk about you at a special session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5030	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5031	With this amendment, we are trying to convince you to understand that the word "minimum" in this article and in the previous members absolutely means nothing, because if something is defined as a level of social security, if you also represent it as something minimal, then the state guarantees that all those citizens who have income below that amount have first to that full amount. However, that is not true, and secondly, you used the word "minimum" to hide one mathematical-static operation that is in Articles 3 and 4 and the article relating to Article 18 of the Law. Here's the thing. You're members of four. The bill laid down a minimum level of social security for September 2004. You did not give the idea of what it meant to be a minimum level of social security, you did not define it, but you said how much it stands in September; so in article 5, you tried to change something, which is an income member, so in the first position you wrote the word "minimally". But I must warn you that, after your intervention in the law, Article 18(1) of point (1) reads about this: the revenues made in the monthly amount of the average monthly income reduced by taxes and contributions (means that not the MPs were wrong when they talked about net earnings, but you did not realize what part of their exposure was achieved in the three months preceding the month in which the application was made. So, if the request is filed in October, then three months of income is taken back, and the level will be set for October by harmonising September with the cost of living growth, and when setting September, data will be used for April, May and June. This different calculation would be if only a month of delay would be acceptable. There's a much larger period of time here that doesn't even go in when it comes to determining that so-called time period. the minimum level of social security. You see, this word "minimum" means nothing in this bill. You need to throw her out somehow, because you can create a big confusion among those who need to apply this regulation, especially by writing Article 2 in Article 10 of the Law, where you're making even more confusion, so that those who apply this right to live in one belief can happen, and that the officer on the counter who has to decide on this applies this regulation that is quite ambiguous, so that we come to a conclusion that the man is denied the request. All his receipts are above the minimum level of social security, and he can't possibly convince you that with the income he has he can't make from the 1st to the 10th of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5032	The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to be very brief on this amendment. I'd say Minister - if the translators who translated from other languages were involved in this law, you should fire them. It says here - from a minimum level; I'd like to inform you that there are neither minimum nor maximum levels, there are lower and higher. So it can be the lowest level, not the minimum level, it can be the highest level, not the maximum level. Therefore, the word here is not appropriate, and of course all that my predecessors have said stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5034	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. I would read the text of this amendment, but not because I am taking someone's time, but because the majority of MPs are not able to read all the amendments that have been submitted to all the draft laws for this session of Serbia's extraordinary session, so it is forgotten, in the meantime, that the text and the importance of the amendments submitted, especially in the day when a day of voting on the law is set in full and individually. Therefore, I quote the text of the amendment: "Article 20 is amended and it reads: for the exercise of the right to special material security in accordance with the provisions of this law, income and income of an individual, or family only by working relationship. In order to exercise the right to special material security, individuals, or families, do not have to meet the conditions laid down in Articles 12, 12a, 13, 14, 15, 18 and 19. Law on social protection and the security of citizens. The specific material security shall be determined in the monthly cash amount at the level of the difference between the level of social security established within the meaning of Articles 11(4) and 5(5) of the Law and the amount of the average monthly income of the individual or family achieved in the previous quarter. Special material security is synchronised quarterly towards the change in the rate of dinar compared to the euro, in each quarter compared to the previous quarter, after the publication of official data by the National Bank of Serbia and the user pays the difference." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is directly related to the amendment to Article 3. The bill submitted by my colleague from the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, since it is necessary to introduce special categories of people who need special material security, and this is about citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. You know there are a number of persons in Kosovo and Metohija who are formally in a working relationship, but do not receive any salary or any kind of profit. They need to ensure a minimum social protection. They're threatened not only by social security, but also by life security. The persons with the property, the processing surfaces can't process those surfaces and that property, for known reasons, because their lives are permanently endangered. You only remember the case in the summer of 1999, when in the fields, during the harvest, 16 Serbs were killed in the Attar of the village of Staro Gacko. Unfortunately, there are more cases like this. The people who have the property and can process it are not safe to live, so the collection of fruits, or income, is lagging behind. They are in this way absolutely endangered. Not only are they at risk of social security and the minimum of social existence, but their lives are also at risk. However, the causes of all of this are much deeper. You know that in creating a new world order and global political ideology, America plays a significant role in this world. They go wherever they expect their national, as they say, interests to be realized. Of course, they go where there's mineral treasure, where there's natural resources. They threaten other peoples and foreign states. We only remember the cases of Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Korea, the state of Central America, and since 1999, after the bombing, they have endangered the life and social security of many people in the Balkans, above all, in the territory of the former SRJ, and now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The bombing also destroyed many economic resources in Kosovo and Metohija, so a large number of honest populations in Kosovo and Metohija and today are at risk. Unlike those where there are natural resources and where ore treasure and other natural resources can be exploited, but there is nothing they want to transfer, transfer to more value, as the national income of the United States, and this is their basic system of foreign policy management, including the occupation of Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and other countries in the world. (President: You're out of time. ) Of course, we in the SRS had above all in mind that this amendment provided the social security of citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, in line with the SRS programme, which we would like to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, unlike the president of a parliamentary group here, who said several months ago that Belgrade would never participate in resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues, and said a few days ago that it should be particularly Montenegro, especially Serbia to be admitted into the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5036	Anyone else want a word? National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5037	As I said in the principle debate, this bill is an opportunity for certain things to be expelled, and this is a question of how sincere all the political parties represented in this parliament are for Kosovo and Metohija to remain an integral part of Serbia. The prerequisite for this, at least we all agreed declaredly, is for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to survive where they are now and to avoid Serbs in due time to return to Kosovo and Metohija. So this bill was the first opportunity to see who seriously thinks about it in action, and who just, for the sake of some political marketing, declares himself to be associated with it. As far as the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is concerned, we agree that much is not up to us, that for many measures the protection of Serbs we must acquire so-called. The international community, but in order to improve the state of the Serbs and their survival, we do not have to ask the United States or Europe for any permission in this respect. I don't think anyone would object to us if this law provides for additional material security for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, especially when unfortunately our people there are not so many there that it would be a great burden for our country in economic terms. That's why we had to intervene with the amendments, when we saw that our bill was not included in the procedure. With our amendment, we wanted to allow all of our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija not to be threatened by the existence of the material, existential sides and not to flee to Serbia with their belly for bread. The minister has quite unconvincedly rejected this amendment of ours. The explanation was about this: we must defend the unity of the social protection system. In other words, all citizens must be equal before the law and, apparently, our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija are already in a social protection system and they must exercise equal rights as citizens in the rest of Serbia. However, we think that our people must be positively discriminated against. Now, I'm using, as a Serbian radical, that expression that you put into fashion. That positive discrimination is the only excuse here. If we have positively discriminated against unhazarded groups through the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, why don't we positively discriminate against our people who are at risk from all aspects in Kosovo and Metohija, to at least enable them to survive materially, and what we have predicted is no luxury at all. It will only make it possible not to think about how to eat. So, again, this is an opportunity for citizens of Serbia to see who was serious when we brought the Declaration and the Plan to solve the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which was only political marketing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5038	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Social Security and Social Security Act, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, to add Article 20a after Article 20a. which reads: "The requirements for the exercise of the right to special material security within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of this Act (Article 10(2) and Article 11 of paragraphs 4 and 5) for applicants who have permanent residence in municipalities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija as first-degree bodies shall be decided by the authorities entrusted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the conduct of social protection activities for the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and as second-degree minister in charge of social affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs shall prescribe a form and content of requirements for the exercise of the right to special material security. The exercise of the right to special material security shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 49 to 64 accordingly. The law. "First of all, the amendment of the SRS is in line with the amendment to Article 3. The bill, which and how it can be used, is that the individual who is capable of working, or the family who has members capable of working, except in which most members are unable to work or who is a member of the family at the service of the military service, material security belongs up to nine months a year. The SRS amendment proposes the introduction of a special material security right for individuals, i.e. families who have a permanent and continuous residence in Kosovo and Metohija, and above all for a period of more than five years, starting on 24 March 1999, who are not temporarily displaced from Kosovo and Metohija and as victims of occupation, violence and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija are unable to achieve incomes or achieve them below the level of social protection. It is already known that Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija who work primarily in local self-government bodies, in health care, education, as well as in the state administration receive double the salary. We know that it is the Serbs who are working on these jobs that have otherwise paid a little more than workers who are employed in other bodies and in other businesses, and since it has been going on for five years, this selection, which is not very human, and this solidarity, which is selective, needs to be corrected. If we already have national interests to keep our Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to stay alive and work there, it is necessary that even if there are no social reasons for the migration of the population. We have a lot of such cases, say in Jablanic County, in Crno Trava, which is a larger municipality than Vlasotinc, Leban, Bojnik, we have 2,700 inhabitants living in the territory of Crno Trava, and 70,000 inhabitants, or Montenegrins living all over Serbia. The reasons for migration are precisely economic. For this very reason, we must not allow economic relations, the economic potentials we have in Kosovo and Metohija to be the reason for the migration of Serbs, because we ourselves are aware that only the territory of Kosovo and Metohija without the population of Serbs living in that territory means nothing to us, because our country's national integrity and sovereignty are just citizens who live there. The minister said that there is the possibility of giving one-time assistance, but obviously, this way, humanity and solidarity will be applied selectively, primarily for the reasons that individual directors or people working at the Centre for Social Work should decide who needs to be given one-time assistance, to whom it is not, and in this way without selection, we allow all people who are really socially at risk to provide social security and to allow them to continue living in that territory, because it is obviously much easier for us to work and to create than for people living in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5040	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to accept the amendment of MP Goran Cvetanovic, because what several MPs, Serbian radicals have proposed, about improving status, for the special material security and social security of our population in Kosovo and Metohija, is something that should be absolutely acceptable to everyone in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why did I say this? We have made in this session, but also in previous meetings of several general legal acts, declarations, resolutions and other decisions concerning the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, especially for the position and status of members of the Serb people in the territory of the southern Serbian province. So far, we've done a little something concrete. I think we have examples in many countries around the world, how they treat their territories that are threatened, but also their people who live outside that territory. It seems to me that as a nation, we have begun to forget a little bit about leaving aside, and only verbally to advocate improving the status of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, while forgetting how much of our people live west of Drina and Danube. Of course, we cannot regulate the status and improve the position of our people beyond the borders of our country. We can do this by working with these countries, by improving cultural, economic, spiritual ties, but what we can and must do, which is our priority obligation, is to do everything possible and how legally we can regulate it without being opposed to the direct will of international powers. What Serbia can do in Kosovo and Metohija, which it can do at any time, except for those two basic facts, and the first is not to allow independence of Kosovo and Metohija, although I hear that some Dosmanian politicians are already talking about it, talking about dates, some June, July 2005 and 2006... The other thing we insist on politically is that in every place, instead of trading with the heads of Serbian generals, they should talk about how the final status of Kosovo and Metohija is resolved by Resolution 1244; and indeed, Resolution 1244 stopped the war, NATO aggression on the SRJ because some paper we thought was at the time and today we think is not good for Serbia and the Serbian people, but better than what we were supposed to do earlier in Rambuje and better than some would wish for us today, which is the separation of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. In this context, and regarding this amendment, it is the third thing Serbia can and must do, which this National Assembly must do through all laws that do not concern directly and specifically the territories of Kosovo and Metohija, and we cannot fully implement the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the southern Serbian province, means that we are also connecting Kosovo and Metohija into a state-level legal system through this type of secondary legislation. To help our people in the economic and social sphere, the state is not expensive and must not be expensive to them anything about its territory and its people, to provide them with the best economic conditions, to provide them with the highest wages in the services that are under the control of our state bodies, organisations and institutions. To provide them with the greatest material security, the biggest social assistance, not to be another reason, so that this would not be an additional reason to continue leaving home, leaving home and leaving our Serb hearth to Albanian separatists. That's what we can do, it's so small and unburdened for Serbia's state budget, that I am convinced that everyone in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can agree with that. But if you accept that and do so, we show the relationship of all MPs to this issue, we show that we are ready to enter into the solution to this problem, not only in the election campaign, but when the election campaign is over and when we have to work in the interests of our citizens. I know. It's easy to collect political points, go and say - I'll let this factory go, let my candidate win. He won that candidate, and now I forgot what I said. We know what promises are made to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Mr. Wolf, you've exceeded your time. I'm done. Thank you for your patience and understanding, Mr. Vice President. So we received in all election cycles after 2000 the largest number of votes in Kosovo and Metohija. But no one will ever ask Serbian radicals what to do, because they have their own private Serbs. So the other day, I was watching that unfortunate Mojčel Trajkovic, saying he won, says - Bogoljub Karic won. A man is not normal, but what to do. I've heard some more, as if they haven't read the election results, they all have three, four private Serbs, they say -- they say hello, neither do I know whose victory or I don't know what. Serbs voted for Tomislav Nikolic with over 70%. Ask us what to do about it. We don't want to have a monopoly on that. We want to talk to you, want to work together and help our people in Kosovo and Metohija to live with a decent man's life; they cannot live with the same money, because their conditions are a hundred times worse, incomparably worse, because they have to relate differently to the central part of Serbia, because these costs are incomparably higher. We must guard that territory not when we need votes, but when we have to do something for them, not just those for us, by keeping our country and defending our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5042	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2004 a bill amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. Unfortunately, the ruling majority, in its already common manner, and this SRS proposal, contrary to all democratic principles and to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, left aside and placed on the agenda a worse proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly two and a half months later, only 26 June 2004. During a recent election campaign, your mouth was full of worry about Kosovo and Metohija, about the remaining citizens of Serbian and non-Albanian nationalities there, but now that the election campaign has passed you, who knows which time, you are showing the right person. You are formally in favour of staying and surviving our citizens in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but when we come to concrete ways to help these people, your support, as a rule, is lagging behind. That is, of course, this time, although I hope that by the end of this debate you will decide to accept the amendments of the SRS, to accept our views and thus at least to help our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija minimally, to show them, at least once, that this country is really behind them. The right to special material security proposed by the SRS, which refers to citizens who have been staying in Kosovo and Metohija for over five years, since 24 March 1999, who have not moved, would not have cost the country much. Besides, it certainly wouldn't cost more than one of the agencies you set up daily, but the benefit, not only for families in Kosovo and Metohija, but also for the whole state of Serbia, would be immeasurable. As for MPs of the ruling majority who in today's debate praised that the government is increasing the number of social security users by this law, I must say that the Government is increasing the number of social security users by almost every law proposed by this House. Gentlemen, you must remember that you have not been elected to this House in order to increase the number of social security users. You are chosen here to create new jobs, to give citizens of Serbia a better life, to rip chains and locks, not to create new social cases. The amendment I submitted to Article 11. The draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security and Social Security Act has been proposed by the citizens to amend and read Article 22 - the right to material security and the right to special material security is recognised from the day of the submission, if the conditions for recognition of the right have been met at the time of submission. A similar solution was also made in the previous law, what the SRS added, and in the law that we submitted to the assembly procedure and these amendments that we put to the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which entered this debate through order, it was to add the right to special material security. It is not clear for what reason the Government is quite a good and precise definition, in which only this right was lacking, shortened and placed it to stand - the right to material security is recognised from the day of the application. What happens if all the conditions were not met on the day of the application, and in the meantime, by the time the request is decided, these conditions will be met? This amendment, which I certainly hope you will accept, just specifies the moment of gaining both the right to material security and the right to special material security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5044	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Jankovic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5045	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with my colleague Milan Jankovic, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11, to put an end to the point and add words - and an extremely three months before the application, if a person who was in a state of social need was prevented from making a timely request. In this way, the persons who are objectively prevented from competing within the time limit prescribed by law for what is the subject of this article, we will ensure that they can (as we propose in the amendment), without greater consequences for the exercise of this right, do so. Then, otherwise, these persons with an emphasis on social and any other need, and we believe that such an amendment would give those with this status something more favourable to the prospect of achieving this right in the way defined by this amendment. The Legislative Committee has said that the amendment is legally possible, as well as the other amendments that we have submitted here on behalf of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5046	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5047	Article 13. The bill is governed by the area - a supplement for the assistance and care of the other person. That's where we have two approaches. One is the government's approach, which once again applies a new methodology, so it stipulates that the monthly amount of the second person's aid and care allowance for September 2004 is 4,000 dinars. Of course, then there goes that alignment with the cost of living. We propose that the amount of an allowance for the assistance and care of another person be determined as follows, i.e. that the allowance for the assistance and care of another person is determined in the monthly cash amount of 30% of the average earnings made per employee in the Republic in the previous month. It's probably a higher amount than what the government is proposing. And I'm going to try to explain why that should be a higher amount, or a higher amount. According to all the statistics, and that matches our harsh reality, our population is getting old. According to all the data and indicators, we're missing a number of accommodation facilities for old people who have no one else to worry about. There is a large number of nursing homes where one person is concerned, or a couple who are sick, who need help and care from another person. In order not to unnecessarily build facilities for the accommodation of those persons and not to convert the gerontological centres into institutions for the accommodation of sick persons who do not receive the hospital, and that is not the purpose of the gerontological centres, it is proposed to increase this fee, that the user of this right may allocate those funds, to direct them into paying for the service of a third party, who will come and help him, to prepare food, to clean his house, simply to be in the house and to help him, because because of age and disease, that person is not only able to do so. With an amount of 4,000 dinars, it's hardly possible to provide and pay for the help needed by a person. And the users of this right are really persons, according to the medical criteria and indications to be fulfilled, which are old and powerless, be assured of that, which without other people's help and care practically cannot live on their own. As a result, a different way of calculating and determining the amount of money to help and care is proposed, so that it can simply be paid to make someone as interested as possible to help old people. I will take the opportunity to point out the other provisions of this bill, and especially what you wrote in article 38, where you say, a request to exercise the right to material security and an allowance for the assistance and care of another person, will be filed until the day of entry into force of this law, will be settled under this law. That means all requests that are filed today and tomorrow, or within ten days. And it's likely to be published by this law. He'll probably be in effect in 15 days. Practically, these rights have only been applied since 1 September and the way it decides on the request and resolves the right and recognises the right indicates that the monetary part of that right is being realised backwards. What is recognised for September, from September 1st, comes practically only early October. It's that third month of vacuum, and I'm going back to that discussion about the minimum level of social security. So this also shows that mathematics and statistics can't help much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5048	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5049	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 which regulates, or amends Article 65(2) of the Law, which reads: "Institute social protection for the accommodation of users other than shelters and reception stations, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent authority of the AP, in accordance with the decision on a network of these institutions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia". Given that funds for social protection, under this law, are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that the constitutional right of the state of Serbia is also directed through the institutions it forms, the transfer of powers, as it is said here to the competent authority of the AP, it is likely that it is in accordance with the law in which the political agreement between the late President Djindjic, Canka, Kasa and Vesenova, which supported the government and transposed some authority to the AP in the Vojvodina Assembly. The Serbian Radical Party believes, and also in the spirit of the amendment, that powers of the Serbian state cannot be transferred in this way. These powers can be changed and decentralised by state functions only by changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Your predecessors, especially former Justice Minister Batic, said the constitution is not the Holy Scriptures. However, the Constitution is a constitution until it is changed in all the provisions in which it is in force. Listening to the discussion during these two days, and here the present Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, for these seven months, seems to be the only one who can be called the Minister of Social Affairs, in a small part. His function as Minister of Labour does not exist, the Ministry of Labour has no action or anything he does. Hundreds of thousands of workers, who have been disbursed, whose rights have been violated, especially since the start of the privatisation process, or the robbery of property that these workers have created for decades, have now come into the situation that they have no right to be entitled to work, to other labour rights. I was present yesterday at a session of the Privatisation Committee. Many have tried to address this committee, to protect their basic constitutional right to work, but the committee itself has been told that they do not have the right to speak on this committee, let alone some parties in the process. Workers, hundreds of thousands of workers, who have worked hard and singled out for the construction of factories, for the purchase of equipment and other assets, have now come into a situation where no one protects them in the state of Serbia. I am taking the opportunity to ask the Minister for Labour, given the situation, whether he and his ministry have taken action to protect these workers' rights, first to work, and then other labour-based rights. That chicaning they're experiencing from what's-his-name. new owners, customers overcome even decent behaviour: from the degradation in the privatisation process of these companies, and businesses have been given new owners into decommissioning, to the exorcision from the workplace, to the use of any situation to get kicked out of the work organisation so that these new owners get to the property as soon as possible, without workers, to sell out and earn huge money without any basis. In that sense, I believe this amendment should be accepted. I suggest that Members of Parliament accept this amendment and that article 21 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5050	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5051	Fortunately, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not an act that depends on Nenad Cank and any other politician and those who do not deal with politics, as someone said. What you have stated, not only in this article, but in both the previous and the subsequent ones, and as regards the insertion of words, the autonomous province, is deeply intruding into this issue of the constitutionality of these norms. I would only draw your attention to the fact that these social protection institutions are operating under public service regulations and I would draw your attention to what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 109, where it is precisely defined which powers, rights and duties of the Autonomous Province. The Autonomous province educates the authorities, organisations and services of the Autonomous province and regulates their organisation and work, only in those areas which have been passed on to the Autonomous province. The constitution did not pass this area to an autonomous province, it is clear to all. The fact that an unconstitutional omnibus law that has been passed at one point of love and trade continues to survive (probably thanks to this composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia), does not necessarily mean that what I believe is unconstitutionally based on the law can find a cover in this Constitution. I'd like to draw your attention that you've probably been taught the fact that you have the right number of voting cards, you've inserted a series of other provisions that don't belong in this law. That's how you intervened on Article 42. The law, and this is your member 16. The bill, so you wrote that closer terms, as well as the form of the act, were prescribed by the minister. It's a contract, and something like that can't stand, because the act form means nothing in the law. I'd like to give you article 19. The bill of law where you misrepresented that member's last position. You are deliberately mistaken, so you wrote - against the final solutions set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this article can be triggered by an administrative dispute, and by justifying whether there is no administrative court or not. The provision that now exists in the law is much better and much better - on the legality of the final acts of Law 2, 3, 4. of this law is decided by the Supreme Court. You didn't need to change that. When these administrative courts are established, if they ever are established, then, because of this Law on Courts, they will have some kind of automation. That is why it is necessary to adopt this and the previous amendments, which make up one whole, because these provisions that we have submitted to the amendments, you have practically stepped into an area called unconstitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5052	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to say that the 24th proposal we are discussing today is a very interesting member in particular. It changes in some way and complements Article 69b of the basic text of the law. When I speak of this article, I must say that these articles are closer and more detailedly governed by the conditions under which the director of a particular social protection institution is appointed. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment recommending that these papers which have been highlighted be deleted, i.e. to delete the entire article 24. The bill, and here's why I did it. As for the newspapers provided for by this article, it is said that the conditions and criteria for the appointment of directors in accommodation facilities are strengthened. Secondly, it is said that the conditions are laid down by law, not by statute. Here I would point to a very discussional change. It's about one superficial or, better say, cosmetic change, not some profound change that would bring some significant newspapers. Namely, when it comes to the conditions under which a particular director is elected, these conditions are prescribed either by the statute or by another legal act within the framework of this organisation, and what is now proposed to be regulated by law is a newspaper, but not so significant. It would be more important for these conditions to be respected in the process and procedure of electing the director of institutions. However, in practice so far, and especially in the last three years, there have been very important criteria concerning political similarities, and if this was not met, then no one could be elected director of the appropriate institution. As for the further newspapers that this member provides, it is that there is a certain working experience of a person who should be appointed director. If it comes to persons with a high level of expertise, it provides for a working experience of five years, in the field of social work, and if it comes to persons with higher expertise, then the condition was 10 years. I think working experience is important, but this condition doesn't have to be absolute. If the person meets other criteria, I mean school equipment, expertise, adequateness, I don't think this experience is an over-interest and the purpose of this member. Therefore, if we had understood this in one way, we would have come to the position that the person responsible for everything else does not have enough years of work experience in this area and cannot be appointed to this responsible function, that is, this responsible job. When it comes to the fourth paper, which is a work programme that has to be submitted by every candidate for director, I would like to point out a few important things. A work programme should not be attached to an individual and should not be placed in these areas of the interest of the community and the state to what the individual foresees. In fact, this matter is regulated in detail by law, is detailedly regulated and by individual instruments of the institution, so I don't know what the goals and programmes of the individual running for director would be decisive and significant for someone to choose for this particular function. As for the following newspapers, it is the acting director's office, which is foreseen here in case a person is not elected to the director's office within a certain period. We have had negative experiences in the previous period of duty, and I believe that this is a very important matter to pay attention to. In fact, it has been very often that a certain person is appointed acting as acting officer, in order to carry out some of the interests of the one who has been appointed to this person. For these reasons, I don't think this should be accepted and that this is just a sword with two blades for whoever is appointed as acting. Finally, the sixth paper foreseen is that the director of an institution established by the Autonomous Province's competent authority appoints the competent authority of an autonomous province. I believe that there is sufficient justification for what was just given by my colleague Krasic that the provision of article 109 has been violated. The constitution, because this is not in the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces. For all these reasons, I propose that this amendment be adopted and voted, because it is the constitutionality of this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5054	Thank you. Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5055	As regards Article 24, paragraph 4 is amended and reads: "The director of the Centre for Social Work can be appointed a person with a higher education profession: social worker, lawyer, psychologist, educator, special educator, defectologist, andragog, economist and sociologist... "I think there's an economist here. All these other professions are perfectly logical and justified and it is mostly part of the work of a social work centre that involves this kind of education, so I don't think economists really belong there. I would use the minister's presence to return to another amendment to Article 15. The SRS has proposed that the member be deleted. What's this about? I will quote this member – three children can be placed in another family, or two children distracted by development, with the total number of children living in the foster family, counting and foster children, cannot be greater than four. In the second attitude – especially from this attitude, when it is in the children's interest, more children can be placed in foster care, when they are placed in a family of relatives and when brothers and sisters are placed. Why did we propose to delete this member? First, we all agree that foster care is the most favourable form of childcare without parental ageing, much better than housing children in appropriate institutions. For this very reason, we do not think that a legal standard should strictly prescribe the number of children who can be placed in a foster home. We know that in the centres of social work professional teams made up of social workers, psychologists, educators carefully measure each specific case. So we didn't propose to delete this member just like that, but not to tie our hands to professional teams in advance. We have to trust that these expert teams will, in any case, bring the best solution. The ministry through expert supervision has the opportunity to always intervene in cases where children's interests are sometimes not treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5056	Here you go, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5057	In addition to these principled remarks concerning the level of authorities and authorities, I would only point out something that should not exist in this article, which is that the candidate for the Director of the Institute of Social Protection, along with the prescribed competitive documentation, submits a work programme for the term of office which is under consideration by the Management Board in the process of giving an opinion, etc. Almost all social protection institutions have a clearly defined job to the point, not so many laws as sublegal acts and standards that apply in the work of all these professions that are inevitable when one of these experts must be employed in the establishment of social protection. There's no possibility of any improvisation. The Director of each social protection institution is required to implement the law, to respect and apply the standards prescribed and there is no room for any of its inventory, unless someone is expected to compete with candidates who will provide more donations, sponsorships or to record which party they belong to. Don't drag anything into this area, because it depends a lot on the director of the social security facility how this facility works, but nothing depends on his paper that he would call a work programme. Nothing would depend on that paper. It is not a candidate for the director of a factory that needs to produce something, he is a candidate for the director of an institution that needs to enforce the law, respect standards, enable users to exercise their rights effectively and provide those services for which the institution exists. I don't know why in this flood of inventivity, you found a form of how to isolate an expert from someone else who, of course, is not an expert. Since this debate is coming to an end, I have to say, it's probably not just a matter of this law, but some other regulations, but the Ministry should also take care of children distracted by development, especially after 25 years, that they no longer have any more practical protection, or, to be precise, that protection comes down to family, and you know, that number of years is the best indication of the age structure in that family. In almost every major place, there is an association that takes extra care of these faces, where the torment has forced these families to unite, to find a way to make it easier for themselves and their children. It would be good for the Ministry to pay a little attention to that population, because they're our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5058	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have had the opportunity to hear a good law, which sort of solves everything that is appropriate and appropriate to the economic situation we are in. I'm sure you can never make a law that can solve everything by making everyone happy, but you have to allow people to function normally, work and live. I'm a man who absolutely advocates the fact that the director should have some experience and that the director in every institution and every job should be given a program. First of all, according to this program, which the director that we can, in a very short period of time, see if the director is doing what he originally, when he was giving the program, set up. We can say after a while -- yes, the director gave the program, the director was an honorable and honest man, but in six months none of what he promised and what he said he didn't realize. It's one of the modes of control. I believe this is an absolutely correct provision and that it should remain in the law. As for opposition MPs, in some time past we've had a lot of criticism here that young people have come to very significant functions without working experience. We can't criticize at some point when we hire someone as a young man without a job experience, and now we come into a situation to criticize someone because a certain work experience is required. We need to find some measure. Surely young people with no work experience should also get jobs, and when it comes to such a delicate job, people with work experience should be hired, of course, in the profession that will ensure better functioning. I would take the opportunity to, beyond this amendment, say that children distracted by development and their parents have a terrible problem. We in Kragujevac have this particular problem that children who are distracted by development after 25 years can't be in homes. That is why this age line needs to be moved, because it is important and important for them to be in a collective accommodation. I think for one family who has a child distracted in the development of this tragedy that we can't wish for anyone, not even the biggest enemy, and in some way we have to see that for those children, who are distracted in development, who are 25 years old, and maybe at the level of a child of 7 years, it means a lot to be in a collective center and that they have to find the possibility that in some way this 25-year-old limit is moving some year up. That means a lot to them and their family. I'd be grateful to the minister, and I'd ask him to come himself, because that's the kind of problem we have. I think that can be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5060	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 33. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33, which reads: Article 112 of Article 1 after the word "general interest" adds the words "and the right to special material security". This is, in fact, a logical trail of our amendment to Article 3 of Article 2, which we have already explained. It is logical that if we are already submitting this amendment, we must go to the end and explain our desire to amend the law in that sense. I have the impression that I may have sent this amendment to the wrong address, as well as all my predecessors from the SRS, because at today's session, we heard that there is one party here in Serbia, rather than an interested group or some former NGO, and today the government organization, which is leading all the policies, which are burning and burning, is giving rain, which deprives us, owes us, talks to the villagers, who are actually asking everything. We've just heard from them that it's all G17 plus done, so now we're asking the question of who are we to refer these amendments to, whether it exists to the government of Serbia and whether it exists, because I thought this state foreign policy and the laws were passed by the government, rather than by some individual parties or interest groups. I don't think our amendments are being accepted because we don't even know who in that orchestra called the Government is actually playing. I feel like everyone's playing a whole other tune. What's safe and I think it should be safe, is that on this point we need to reach a consensus, that we really need to show how solid and human we are. This is about helping and showing concern and common pain towards children and families from Kosovo and Metohija. This is about people and children living in some completely abnormal conditions, in a camp. This is about life in fear, this is about children who, when they enter the river, don't know if some wild terrorists are going to be swept away by a burst of bullets. This is about people who are expelled from their hearths, where houses are burned down, living in Kosovo and Metohija, but not in their houses, but 50, 100km away, who have properties that they cannot process. It's so clear here. There's no reason for us to create a unique system. We agree, but there is no equality when these people do not live in the same conditions as people in central or whole Serbia. So the story of a system is deplaced because we don't live in the system. This country definitely lives in chaos. We can't talk about introducing the system here. It's a small number of families, it's a small budget expenditure. It's less than the establishment of an agency, and we start someone here every day and we argue that it's a little bit, that it's only 30 million. Today, 30 million, and now this office that's going to cost 100 million, so tomorrow the agency that's going to cost another 50 million, and every day 30, 50 million, and it's hard for us to separate a thousand families and a thousand children some help, for those of whom the world has made a terrible mistake. They made a terrible mistake in Kosovo and Metohija. The world will have to bear it on its soul. Don't let us be like that. Let's show that concern. This is the most common thing, the least we can do. You don't ask for anything big, you don't ask for a budget to be burdened. You're putting a lot more pressure on him through that office. Then take this office out of this law, save that 50 million. Indeed, if we need to keep repeating the words behind this speaker, they are: saving, saving, saving, it is economic, small and medium-sized enterprises, agriculture, employment of young people, but not in agencies and institutions, but in production.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5062	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good for you to accept this amendment to Article 34, as well as other amendments to the SRS, if you want this law to serve its purpose. We couldn't expect it from the government, given that this government, as well as the previous government, acted as if the world was created on the day of the government's formation. Here we have heard praises today that this government has begun to strengthen the institution of custody in Serbia, and the institution of custody in Serbia exists also in the 1991 Law, much better regulated than this law, without limiting the number of children who can be in foster families, because Serbian citizens are human, unlike the Serbian government, who is inhumane and because it is very nice to watch television reports about five or seven children in one family. These families manage to support these children, although only 1,700 dinars per child are received from the government. We also heard that the government cares about the social status of citizens, and the bottom line is that this law reduces social giving. The only thing that really is a newspaper and what's connected to this and and to that previous government are agencies or seduces. Through this law, the government proposes an institution as an institution that deals professionally with social protection issues. Mr Minister, you and your ministry are not professional enough to worry about the problem of social protection, but you are therefore expert in providing through Article 34 that the funds provided in the Republic's budget for the purposes of Article 47(5) and Article 112 of this Law are transferred to end-users on the basis of a decision by the Minister in charge of Social Affairs, in accordance with the law. We from the Serbian Radical Party think this is not a good solution and that the minister cannot have such powers, especially that it cannot have a minister who promises jobs for Serbian citizens, employees in Serbia. Such authority cannot be given to a minister who applies the Labour Act, who has not actually been adopted. Just to remind you that this Labour Act has been voted on by the Thessaloniki remote control. Such authority cannot have a minister fleeing from strikers. Such authority cannot be given to a minister who does not answer when the "democratic" police cause serious physical harm to a striker; such authority cannot have a minister who does not like to hear the MPs of the National Assembly, I mean the MPs of the opposition, because today, half the time spent here, the minister has agreed with the MPs of his group, and the other half has been out of this room. I know the minister doesn't like listening to SRS MPs. We don't like being a minister, but what we're gonna do, we're gonna last another month or two days. So, on behalf of the SRS, we, or colleague Milorad Mircic, have proposed that this article be changed on 34th, so that it is said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia regulates the way in which the funds are transferred and paid on the basis of the rights of special material security. I suggest you accept this amendment, at least as much as possible, to ensure some guarantee for the use of these funds. I also suggest that you adopt other amendments to the SRS, because if you do not adopt our amendments, you have passed this law, because it did not cover families that have lived in Kosovo and Metohija for more than five years. By this law, you've reduced the social benefits. You boast that you will increase social giving to some municipalities. I tell you, you will be reduced in other municipalities, and certainly that is not the purpose of lawmaking. The law must be equally good for all citizens of Serbia. Of course, we're pushing for equalising social giving, but to equalize with the larger social givings, not the ones that are really below each level.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5064	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Minister Lalovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5065	I'd just like to make a few comments. Now we have finished discussing this law and I hope it will be adopted in this congregation. Since a few things are still being repeated that are completely incorrect, I want to say something. It is not true, therefore, that this law reduces social incomes, but increases into 122 municipalities in Serbia. All others who have bigger profits (one more time to repeat it, it seems that they need six times to be heard) otherwise even now, if they have a higher average in the city or a municipality than the average republican profit, they are now the basis and that is the republican profit average. No one is shrinking, just increasing into 122 municipalities in Serbia. It's a little unusual that it has to be said six or seven times and some keep repeating something that isn't true, but I just have to say it for the sake of the truth, because of the citizens of Serbia. The second thing I'm saying is that this law introduces a system in the field of social protection, that we equate all citizens of Serbia who are in a state of social need at the level of the rights they exercise, they all have the same basis, they exercise the right in accordance with the law. We stimulate in a very good way the development of foster care in Serbia, which we have not had in this way so far arranged in the system. I also think that this is an important step forward, and it's important that we fix the position for the 24,000 most difficult people in Serbia with a serious increase in care and assistance supplements, and these are simply facts that someone may like or not, but these are facts. It is not good if those facts are not liked by someone, because I think it is not normal for people not to like it when the material and social situation of Serbia's citizens, who are in the most difficult situation in Serbia, is improved. We could not accept these amendments concerning Kosovo and Metohija, I explained why, but at the same time I said there is a provision in this law, when and if the assembly adopts it, and I hope it will, which gives legal basis that if we have the means, we can help especially people in Kosovo and Metohija. What is also a feature of this debate is, at least in one part, that there have been non-serious amendments, when given the position in which this country is located. So, to propose that the basis for paying social protection to Serbian citizens is 35,000 dinars, when the average net profit is 14,000 dinars, is actually a mockery to the citizens of Serbia themselves who are working. So, an extremely unserious approach. All in all, I appreciate and believe, and the government of the Republic of Serbia believes that the adoption of this law is of exceptional benefit to the citizens of Serbia, that the position of Serbia's most vulnerable citizens is significantly improved, and I believe that all MPs who wish to vote in favour of this law. I call on all MPs to overcome their mutual interests and needs, to act as MPs and to support what is better for the citizens of Serbia. Just two more notes, since I noticed (I haven't been in the congregation for a while because of work) that discussions on the law are also used for some very long observations about other things. Since it's been mentioned here several times -- and why do you keep talking about inheritance, when something's gonna fix up, etc., I want to say two things. First, it's much easier to do destruction than structure, much harder to build than to destroy. There's a rule that what breaks down within a very short time frame takes a lot of time to build. It's been crumbling around here for over 10 years. Who expects something to be done in a few years, he's keeping the citizens in error. So I'd like to ask you to consider that fact. Secondly, I wouldn't mention it if it hadn't been mentioned more times, Serbian workers have lost their jobs primarily because of the policy that has been conducted in this country in the last 15 years. That's why they lost their jobs and all the workers in Serbia need to know the addresses they need to address and do not lead them astray when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5066	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5067	There's a roughly broken member of 100 here. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. One minister, as a government official on this agenda, gave an assessment of the amendments, and the amendment is the right of the MP, and his assessment is that some amendments were in the post of mockery and cited those amendments concerning Kosovo and Metohija. He said it is unserious and that applicants of these amendments mock everyone by saying that the basis of which the level of social security is calculated for those citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija should be 35,000 dinars. He avoided saying that the amendment applies to these citizens, so he said - for some citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He took advantage of the opportunity to conduct some political evaluations, which is his right, but he has no right to insult the MPs and to insult the amendments. Even less, he has the right to insult those in whose favour the amendments are given. The problem is when a coalition government is concluded, and in that government, it's certainly someone who knows his time is limited. The bigger problem is when a union official comes to the post of minister. We had that unfortunate Association of Independent Unions last time. Now we've had a chance to have a union advisor as a minister. He probably used his post in the union to organize a union fight, but it's not good that he bends and runs from this pay phone. It is known who ruined the social product in the Republic of Serbia, and who promised to be honey and milk only when he sat in the chair. Don't change the thesis. All the SRS MPs from this place have announced about this law, be assured, as of September 1st, everyone will be clear, and since October 1st, everyone will feel and say who was right when it was out of this booth. Secondly, from the bill, the minister pulled out that these were irrefutable facts. It's just a simple projection. The fact is, it's just some reality, something that can be proven.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-08-0.u5068	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details and in general. In accordance with Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure, I schedule this session, due to the importance of the law, for Monday at 12:00 p.m., and I remind all MPs that Sunday at 12:00 p.m., a solemn session, at which Serbian President will take an oath. Thank you.
