ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 119 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Djurisic, Veroljub Stevanović, Stanisa Stevanović, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Meko Omerovic, Dejan Rajčić, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, Gordana Comić and Vladimir Jovanovic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 5th point of the agenda: - THE PROGRAMME OF THE SOCIAL-ECONOMY COUNCIL AND THE PEACE OF WORK CONTINUES (addition) The word has a People's MP Takac Istvan, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, today we have two legislative projects on the agenda: a bill on the socio-economic council and a draft law on peaceful settlement of work disputes. G17 plus is for the legal regulation of this important area, such as the socio-economic sphere of society. In our society, in relation to this problem, in addition to legal regulation, it is necessary to change the relationship of all participants, ways of thinking and ways of resolving important disputes. I believe that certain interests in the sphere of business must also be envisaged in advance certain mechanisms for resolving them. The draft bill on the socio-economic council provides that the socio-economic council will be to address the issue, which will be made up of representatives of the government, employers, trade unions. The authorities that will consider this body are: collective bargaining, the impact of economic policy on social issues, employment policies, profit policies, prices, etc. As Minister Lalovic said in his opening statement and address, we must bring our legislation into line with European Union standards, Western democracy countries, where social dialogue is considered one of the basic levers of the political and economic system, in the signing of a social agreement in this area are far away. Some of these countries, France, Germany, Denmark have already changed, developed and improved their social agreement several times, and in the Netherlands, where the labour market was most successful, social contracts were concluded in 1981. Neighbouring Hungary, which began its transition in the early 1990s, already passed a special law in 1991 that regulates the conditions for improvement and mitigation measures due to unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the best measures for successful implementation of the overall employment are the measures envisaged for the country's economic development strategy. As foreseen in the draft law, collective bargaining will be one of the important areas in the activities of the socio-economic council. Collective bargaining and collective agreements are a very important liquid of the organisation of workers. However, at certain times, in a time period of development of certain societies, there is a stalemate on this plan. The fact that an agreement to speed up collective bargaining was adopted at the International Labour Organisation Conference in Geneva in 1981 at its 67th session. This also confirmed a statement that, among the countries of the world, such a programme that will lead to the real recognition of the collective bargaining institution is in favour of this proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council and we have resolved this issue positively. The Social-Economic Council provided for in the draft law has just such an obligation to do everything at national level to ensure that such international flows are realised in our legislation in relation to direct application in practice. Salaries and labour prices are also very important economic categories in terms of the economic situation strategy, as a factor that determines the profitability of a particular branch or a particular economic operator. G17 plus advocates the basic idea that the basic economic obligation in the area of wages is again affirmed, that earned wages be paid to workers on a regular basis. I believe that the Economic and Social Council, at the beginning of its operation, must have this issue very fundamentally to elaborate and recommend to other executive authorities that companies, privatised or not, regularly carry out their obligations to their employees. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the very positive solution is that in the bill there is a single separate body, a socio-economic council, which is an independent body under this legislative proposal, is constantly under review and monitor the area envisaged and all developments in the same, independent of the current government policy, i.e. the current political influence of the ruling structure. In Article 10(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The bill stressed: "The ministry is obliged to notify the Social-Economic Council of its views within 30 days of the date of the presentation of the opinion". On the vertical line of integration of the socio-economic council from the level of the Republic, the province and local self-government, I believe it should be tighter and binding. Namely, in Article 15. The bill only indicates that there are local councils, without setting out specific tasks, or obligations to set up them. Ladies and gentlemen, the second law is a law on peaceful dispute resolution. This proposal introduces a new institution in the labour dispute resolution system, which is an arbitration institution. The draft law lays down the arbitration panel. In the current situation when many social firms are privatised new relationships are not regulated in a valid way and there are various disputes. On the one hand, due to the different interpretation of the obligations of the new majority owner in relation to the old debts towards workers of the same legal entity, who are specifically designated under the Privatisation Act, as well as shareholders, co-owners. They are these small shareholders, and on the other hand they are employees who have old claims from the same firm, often on several monthly and annual salaries. In the absence of institutions for the peaceful resolution of such and other labour disputes, often good firms fail and become disbursed of their external and internal obligations, so capital and the basic demand of workers to pay personal income. This legislative project for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes precisely offers an institutional solution with the introduction of independent arbitarians through the agency for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes with certain pre-determined persons, i.e. arbitarians. The bill provides for two possibilities: collective and individual disputes. Usually when the situation is so irrevocable, where all employees are at the same risk, then there is a strike. These cases end in collective disputes. I would like to point out that to settle disputes peacefully, there must be a willingness of participants in the dispute, that they want to settle it peacefully. The peaceful resolution of disputes as foreseen by the draft law of current practice, and the difference is only that regular courts will continue to do their job, and the bill provides for "emergency". The bill provides for three days to launch the case, and another assumption for a peaceful settlement of the dispute is "readyness" to settle the dispute peacefully. The institution of a peaceful settlement of the working dispute is not a court, but that the participants in the dispute point to a possible rational solution to the disputed situation and is not binding to the parties in the dispute. This is provided for in Articles 2 and 6. If they accept the current dispute will be deemed to be resolved, and there is no need for regular courts to solve the same problem. I want to point to Article 52(2). The bill, where it has been found, lays down the conditions for the exercise of the right to reward and compensation for the costs of the arbitarians and its height is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by its act. This issue is particularly sensitive because it is usually about employees who do not normally have the means to live; they have not received months' wages and then ask such participants for compensation is very controversial. I believe that this provision should be clearly defined, for the sake of the public and future participants in these disputes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, G17 plus supports both legislative projects and recommends that others accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8239	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and Bosko Ristic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if a question were to be asked to the parliamentary group of the SRS whether it was a peaceful dispute resolution dialogue, the development of agreed relations, the answer would be yes. Ali. If a matter of time is asked in which we pass these two laws, which I would say are the aid laws, the law which is now applicable and which is in force, which is the Labour Act, it should be proposed to the Assembly for adoption of this law. I suppose yesterday, the minister with his statement for the pay phone, that the law on working on the agenda with the government and that he would soon come before the MPs, must have been happy with a large number of people who were damaged under that shameful law. The way he regulates the obligations of the employer and the employee and the way he was brought in, the issue will certainly be resolved differently. The Social and Economic Council, I think, should have this number of members as stated in the draft law. The SRS believes that the socio-economic council, which should be an independent body, should have another representative in addition to the tripartite composition, which is the representative of the unemployed. Although yesterday, the minister said that a tripartite system is envisaged in developed countries, it is, but there are two members of the unemployed, which means that the number of unemployed, which characterises the state of Serbia, could certainly rightly provide and should provide in this advice for representatives of the unemployed, so that problems can be solved as effectively as possible; as Article 9 of this law said that the competencies of the socio-economic council, among other things, are employment policies, where unemployed people could certainly make a good proposal in which they can and should be resolved. Article 3 of this Law provides, inter alia, that the socio-economic council will deal with informational activity, which is not necessary and does not have to stand so. The social-economic council, in our opinion, has a large number of members. That's 18, plus their deputies. We believe that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be significantly burdened by the financing of work and participation in the work of the socio-economic council. In Article 6, interpreting certain provisions of the Labour Act, an impression can be made that members, including their deputies, can be persons in a permanent working relationship and can be assumed. Article 6 paragraph 3 speaks when the person who is a member of the socio-economic council ceases membership in the socio-economic council, which is, "if convicted of an unconditional prison sentence of at least six months". This is a provision in labour law which, by force of the law, terminates the employment relationship if it is sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of at least six months, so it can be assumed that members of the council are in a permanent working relationship while the members of the socio-economic council, i.e. the secretariat, are clearly seen that they are in a working relationship, as is the case with the secretary. The Social and Economic Council adopts an act on the internal organisation, but this law does not provide for any legal framework. We do not believe that the Serbian Parliament should be detailed to regulate the number of employees in the secretariat of the socio-economic council. Ali. It might be a good idea for some frameworks in which the secretariat could move when hiring, or increase the number of unemployed. The Social-Economic Council decides and considers issues and delivers them to the Government. To take views, all members of the council need agreement. I think there are great populist expectations of this council here, and in practice, there will certainly be problems that this council will not be able to solve with success. The Social and Economic Council can educate permanent and temporary working bodies to consider and propose positions in certain areas. This Article (6) There is an increase in the state apparatus and I think that the membership of 18 members and as many deputies is quite enough, even too much to burden taxpayers, or to impose on taxpayers. The Social-Economic Council will be chaired by the chairman who will have the mandate for a year. Yesterday there were colleagues here who commented on it, and I don't think that's good, that it won't be effective. It has been shown in practice in some bodies that had the chairman for a year that it does not work in the best possible way. In addition to the socio-economic councils on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are socio-economic councils on autonomous provinces and on local self-government. Their jurisdiction is analogue, as is the case with this socio-economic council for Serbia's state level. Here, it is not mandatory to set up socio-economic councils for autonomous provinces and local self-government. It is said to be voluntary for local self-government and that it will always be established if two participants, and we know who they are, can be the executive body of local self-government or autonomous province, can be representatives of representative trade unions and employers, if two participants make an agreement, it is said that a third one is obliged to accept it and to establish socio-economic councils at the level of an autonomous province or local self-government. The law does not provide for what will happen if the third participant does not accept that obligation. It has been said that the Ministry of Labour will adopt certain acts concerning the work of socio-economic councils, however, the law does not contain a clear provision and is not sufficiently precise to what period the Ministry of Labour is obliged to adopt such acts. It seems to me that in the light of this law, the resources needed to start the work of the socio-economic council for 2004, and you know that today is November 9th, and within 30 days, some of the actions under this law are needed, four million dinars for 2004 for the work of the socio-economic council, and 15 million dinars for 2005. That's one big burden for taxpayers. Let's keep it that way. I believe that it should be included in the socio-economic council of the unemployed, so when something is paid, it assumes that there would be an accelerated solution to the problem of unemployment. Yesterday, unlike some ministers who tell us when they defend the bill - only if we adopt the law will there be great employment in Serbia, the standard will increase, it has been correct and it has not talked about these things, because it does not stand. It is not possible to adopt these auxiliary laws of the Labour Act, to increase the number of employment, but it is possible to solve work dispute problems peacefully, as is the law on peaceful work dispute resolution and envisaged. This law introduces an agency, like most previous laws. It is not in this law that the Management and Supervisory Board, which the Agency will surely have, and as the bodies for the peaceful settlement of labour disputes, are envisaged by a peacemaker and arbiters. When it comes to the peacemaker, together with the other two participants in the process, he makes a recommendation first on the solution to the problem, and it is said that the recommendation does not commit, but on the basis of the recommendation, it must later follow an agreement that could have legal power, or an agreement drawn from a collective agreement, will have the power of judicial alignment. I think it's a big burden. The SRS takes the view that, instead of an agency that would make the choice and all other technical and professional jobs in terms of peacemakers and arbiters, this is resolved by the legal assistance service within the framework of local self-government, although the International Labour Organisation is told in the light of this law, it wants to help professionally and materially address this problem, i.e. to regulate this problem legally; it can also be through the legal assistance service, which is independent and which has enough professional staff in its composition to solve these problems peacefully. A number of amendments have been submitted to this law by the SRS. If there is an understanding by the Secretary-General that a number of these amendments are adopted and accepted, then there will certainly be significant improvement in the quality of these laws, which could contribute to their improvement and later in application.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8241	The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristic, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8242	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law that needs to regulate labour relations, with the aim of resolving disputes in this area in a peaceful manner. I believe that this law is unnecessary and inconsistencies and that it is not in line with the legal system in the Republic of Serbia, above all, because some institutes that are contrary to already existing positive solutions in Serbian legislation are foreseen. This law, for example. Introduces a standstill procedure in the Law on litigation, precisely in the process of working disputes. The law on litigation, proposed by the Serbian government and represented here by Justice Minister Mr Stojkovic, excludes the suspension of proceedings in a lawsuit. Therefore, solutions in mutual cohesion were offered here. It is impossible to predict that parties that resolve a peaceful dispute in front of a peacemaker or arbitre, notify the court at the same time and request a unanimous standstill in the proceedings. Resting, as an institute, in a litigation procedure no longer exists. As far as the proposed solutions are concerned, I believe that the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes offers solutions that will slow down dispute resolution. Why? Because the parties have an obligation to proceed unanimously with the settlement procedure, although there is already a case before the court. The court itself and the litigation are predicting the possibility of stilling and in litigation. There is a possibility of an appointment of a hearing due to a standstill or an attempt to settle. There are outsiders in regular courts who can also settle disputes in a peaceful manner. What exactly did it want with this law? I believe that the government has tried to make such a law just a front for growing social tensions, to find an opportunity to stop with disputes that are massive, and above all those in social enterprises where workers have long not received minimum personal incomes or to receive contributions from work relations, stop disputes from 1 January 2005, as the day of mandatory application of this law and thus remove social pressure on the Serbian government. Serbia's government is in big trouble. She lost her legitimacy in the latter election. A very small number of Serbian citizens have been shown to support the government and its policy, especially the coalition, which is only an interesting coalition and which is being held, as analysts say yesterday. on the basis of political or material interests. What is expected of this law? First of all, to direct disgruntled workers, who are just heading their anger towards the Prime Minister, the responsible ministries, are seeking their rights. And yesterday the data came out, officially published, that over 100,000 workers found themselves surprised when they made an insight into the lists of republican funds for pension and health insurance that they had not been paid by large social firms for years. When 100,000 workers turn to the court now, and this law is eventually passed, that means that all these disputes will be terminated and they will be sent to resolve these disputes with their firms in front of a competent peacemaker. This law introduces a "para-state institute", a "para-judicial authority". A parallel is introduced in the conduct of disputes between employers and employees. Why am I saying this? You have a government agency to run a register or a directory of peacemakers and arbitarians, and parties, if they can't agree on the names of the peacekeepers or arbitarians, then the director of the agency determines the person who will act in the process of calming down. What's interesting about this? Exactly the fact that the director was appointed by the government. So again, the government, past the courts, interferes with things that are completely within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. You will have one procedure that is conducted and started by the Government, and then the minister responsible for the work is prescribing the procedure in conduct or generalisation between the arbitration and the parties in the proceedings. So the law at the very beginning shows its inability to regulate these relations in relation to the peace process. It leaves the power of blanco to the minister that, when we adopt that law, in front of an agency that will lead the proceedings, she will arrange it. Here are some solutions that will call witnesses, collect evidence, impose skill, but there is no way to see how parties will represent their interests, how they will be made possible even from Roman law, the known obligation - to hear both sides that can speak in an argumentative manner about facts, propose evidence and plead. There is no legally regulated obligation of witnesses and of experts to act within a certain period of time, i.e. to approach and give statements. There are no guarantees that witnesses will be obliged to testify. On the one hand, the Law on Prosecution, which we attacked last week for inconsistency and inconsistency, provides for the possibility of a witness being detained for up to 30 days, unless he wants to testify that, and here you have an agency where there are no rules or who can be a witness, how will he be called on, how will his presence be provided, how will the compensation be paid to witnesses for joining the settlement procedure?- I'm sorry. So these are all unsaid things that are left entirely to the Minister. So, I believe that this law represents a conflict with already positive legislation and it regulates the procedure for resolving labour disputes, that we return to a small door to the peace councils, the courts of joint work, and they do not have a specific and orderly procedure. The possibility opens that, although the state wants to create an illusion of a third participant in resolving peaceful disputes between employers and workers, it directly interferes with the creation of an agency where it appoints its director, a confidential and politically-like man, because the term "unsuitable" is reintroduced here in the law. Article 38 says that a person is not unfit to perform these tasks. Otherwise, in legal practice, there is the concept of "likeness" and "worthyness". It is worthy of one who is not convicted, a person who has the trust of multiple parties, therefore, that he may be entrusted with a public function, and "likeness" represents "likability". Do you like being a peacemaker or an arbiter? Surely, the current government will seek only those who like them by political or obedient criteria and thus create a peacemaker or arbiter. These similar and attractive will work in a way that rejects all social tensions from the government, dispels actions and prevents judicial proceedings, and the parties have launched to protect their legitimate interests based on work and working relations. To conclude, this law aims only to prevent the filing of 100,000 lawsuits by those workers who have not received contributions for years and minimum earnings in social enterprises, and have failed over the past period.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8243	There's no reason to throw. You'll be entitled to a replica. According to Article 99(3), during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that violates freedom of speech. It is Mr. Ristic's right to talk about all the shortcomings of the previous government and you have no right to throw while he's talking about it. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8244	The basis for the replica is to mention the legitimacy of the ruling majority where I also recognized the question of the legitimacy of the party to which I belong, since the head of the parliamentary club was not there during the debate, under his authority I asked for the right to reply. As for the legitimacy of the ruling majority, the legitimacy of the parties supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, elections were held for the province's assembly, a new provinceal government was formed in the AP Vojvodina and it is one strange combination of state-owned parties or parties called state-owned and separatist parties, parties that want to prosecute extra-profits, protect extra-profits, but we do not think of mentioning the legitimacy of the government. The DSS coalition capacity at the province level is small, we have not been able to find a way to form a congregation majority. The government will also be tried by voters and their actions, we will see how the voters will move, and I mean the legitimacy of the authorities in the coming period. Also, legitimacy is not only about election and election results, but also about day-to-day moves and decisions made by certain officials. We can thus ask the question of the legitimacy of the president of the Republic, because he called on Serbs to go to the Kosovo elections, and 0.3% of citizens of Serbian nationality who have residence in Kosovo and Metohija responded to his call, so that we can set up a question about what happened here. So does the President of the Republic have the legitimacy to decide on matters concerning Kosovo and Metohija? This is not such a simple question and in order to overcome all inter-party disputes, and yet in order to make decisions that we will build political continuity in this country, I think that the question of legitimacy, and some other issues in our daily-political debates, should be put aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8245	An authorised representative of the DS, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8246	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am impressed by the fact that certain...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8247	Let me ask you a question: is that a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8248	Yeah. So it doesn't occur to them that certain things do and that's fine. I'd like to see some things come to their minds to work, because it's high time they took responsibility for running the state at the moment, because it's high time to deal with the problems that are in Serbia right now, because it's high time they realized they were in power. The authorities and trust are being checked exclusively in the elections. There is no way to convince us that you have the legitimacy that you have been so disastrously through the last elections both local and presidential, to remind you. The legitimacy of Serbia's president is the strongest legitimacy currently in existence on Serbia's political scene. It is the only directly elected politician in the Republic of Serbia and it is difficult for this assembly speaker to challenge the legitimacy, with all due respect for your knowledge or ignorance of Serbia's political scene. That is why I would also like to comment on Mr. President's intrusion just now that he has misused his right to chair the assembly speaker. For he cannot comment on the presentation of the MPs of the people after this address, nor can he freely interpret what one of the messengers wanted to say. Of course, Mr Ristic did not think about it, nor did he think at any time that he was criticising what the government of Mr Zivkovic was doing, and the government of Mr Djindjic just sent it, because it was only good that in this Serbia, in the last 10 or 15 years, it was done. I wish that the reforms, that the transition, that the position of workers, businesses and states were continued through which it was started in 2001, because we would not be in a position to interpret what nobody in Serbia can interpret with such ridiculous proposals and steps at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8249	Thank you. Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic spoke as an authorised representative of the DS. The speaker of the assembly called to explain some things to Snow White, on what basis he has the right to establish order in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8250	Please, I was just commenting, Mrs Stojačić, of course, Lakicevic-Stojačić, there is no question, there is no reason to raise tension. On the basis of the article that I quoted, I warned the MPs who threw it at times when it was past the topic at first sight. It's possible you can't hear it, you can hear it at the pay phone. So, I'm just trying to set up order to prevent someone from disturbing the speaker. It's the only thing I've done, and I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8251	I thank Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic, as well as for the previous intervention to establish order in the hall, I guess that's the main task of the president of the assembly. He has the word of the head of the DSS Parliament Club, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8252	This is a replica. Exposure of the deputy head of the DSS parliamentary group, i.e. His replica was addressed to Bosko Ristic, who spoke about the legitimacy of political parties and the legitimacy of the government. What you have said, Mrs. Stojačić, is an unnecessary lesson to the MPs, especially the DSS MPs. I'll explain very simply why. We know very well that the best assessment of the legitimacy is in the elections, elections for the President of the Republic and the one that was in the local elections. You need to know that it's only one side of political legitimacy. Political legitimacy is assessed in another way, and if someone has given some kind of assessment there was some need to replicate and make a different view of the matter, so you are told: that someone who received such elections in June for the President of the Republic makes a move after a few months that leads to his word disobeying those addressed to him. At 0.35%. So that's what Mr. Prophetovich was talking about. One more thing when it comes to local elections. They show the state of the political party's legitimacy on the day of elections, but the whole truth needs to be told. What capacity does the DSS have, in which the DSS municipality is in power: the DSS rules 110 municipalities in Serbia with its coalition partners. Then we need to look at what DS capacity is when it comes to the second round of presidential elections for municipalities. The DS only received 13 municipal presidents in Serbia, but its percentage is more than 85% pass-by in the second round. What's your percentage?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8253	The People's MP Bosko Ristic reported on the replica. You've caused a replica, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8254	I didn't challenge you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8255	You spoke about it, and the president of the assembly just called on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8256	An interpretation of my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8257	We don't want to compromise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8258	I think we're going to learn something, these three minutes, we're not going to lose, because MPs here have come to do some responsible work that should be for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. I heard here from one of my predecessors that one party, first of all, the DSS, in 110 municipalities in Serbia is in power and it speaks of legitimacy. It just speaks of good taste, that someone can go to the coalition with everyone, step on his political principles and not choose a coalition with which he will be in power. It speaks of the political deviability of such a party. As for the interpretation given by Mr. President of this assembly, about which government I meant when I gave an assessment of its legitimacy or the results of my work. There's a joke in the people when someone was talking down the government; they arrest him cops and beat him up, and they ask, "What were you saying, he says, "Down the government, I didn't mean this government," and they keep beating him up and saying, "We know what government you mean." By that principle, it is clear to the officials of this Parliament and government officials whom I meant to the government. This government has lost its political legitimacy. That's what relations in the government say, that's what the empty benches of the government's individual coalition partners yesterday who didn't want to come in and sit in the assembly. This is said by the main committees of individual members of the government who disagree with politics, the resignations of individual officials in parliamentary clubs, because they do not agree with anti-European policies. This speaks of the behaviour and statement of those who voted for the Declaration on European Integration, and here a different policy is being implemented and the government is making proposals that are anti-European. This speaks of complexity in the government and this speaks of the longevity of that government, under the pretext. The budget will also come, and we will see how the parties will treat the budget. This law only has one thing, and that is, to turn down social tensions from this government, which has done nothing, which is immovable, which has for the president of a man who hasn't moved from his office, who hasn't spoken to businessmen and employees, because the biggest social tensions need first to take over the Prime Minister, who should receive both employees and those who are their employers. Here, the Prime Minister wishes, through some agency, which is not regulated by law, not in terms of its structure, nor in terms of the number of employees, nor in terms of independence and independence, in terms of financing and functioning, that the problem should be rejected and transferred to the director to whom the Government will appoint. So he wants to put one civil servant in a sacrifice of the relationship between employees and employers, who needs to solve all tensions and only extends the process of allegedly peaceful work dispute resolution. In this way, it wants to prevent and delay 100,000 procedures that dissatisfied Serbian citizens will launch against employers behind whom the current government stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8259	Mr. Ristic, your time is up. I didn't understand what the agency has to do with this question now, but okay. Everyone seems to be free to interpret. I don't understand what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is about, Mrs. Stojacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8260	I'm mentioned in the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8261	You were mentioned by a party colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8262	I was mentioned by Mr Aligrudic and Mr Predrag Markovic. It is certainly the legitimacy of each of us individually that can be determined in different ways, but it is certain that the political legitimacy of political parties on the political scene of Serbia is determined solely by the elections. So, I will repeat, after the local elections, the DS has the most convincing committees in local municipalities and has received more votes than any political parties that make up the ruling coalition in the Republic Parliament and the Republic Government, and that is the legitimacy that is undeniably established in the local elections. The DS has the highest mayor in the Republic of Serbia. The DS had the most mayor, the mayoral candidate in the second round of local elections, and because of the principled policy and non-discipline coalitions entering the second round, it failed to win exactly at all the polling stations it went out to. Collect your election results in local elections, collect election results from each of your political parties and all of you together. You will understand, although I know it is difficult to accept, and even to Mr Aligrudic, that the Democratic Party is at this moment and after that, but also by researching all relevant agencies, the most popular party of democratic options at this time in Serbia. Of course Boris Tadic called on Serbs to go to the Kosovo elections. Of course Boris Tadic has the courage to recognize the problem and the problem of looking into his eyes. Of course, if elections were discussed tomorrow, he would invite the people to go to the polls, because the basic right is for each of us to choose and be chosen. Of course, because we recognise Kosovo and hope that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia, and by doing so we do not raise our hands from it, as you do. By making and calling on the people to go to the elections and trying to achieve their legitimate and political rights, we are trying to reduce the tragic consequences of both the Kumanovo Agreement and Resolution 1244, which you have dragged us into, and we are trying to find a way to give hope to the citizens of Kosovo in communication with the European and international communities, hope for the citizens of Serbia, to fight for Kosovo. I know that inaction and running away from the problem is the fundamental characteristic of the government headed by Vojislav Kostunica. We know that inaction is something that will remain remembered as the basic characteristic of the government in the period since it was established. We know that there is no possibility of making a decision, which is a characteristic of the brave people who should lead Serbia. You can't, you can't, you don't know, and worst of all, you won't make decisions that Serbia should take there, what.... And that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8263	Your time is up. Mrs. Stojcic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8264	.... And that's the point. When one of you has the courage, he'll be able to compartmente the Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8265	Just a little (after several MPs have come forward) the word has first Miloljub Albianić, so MP Prophetovic, so Zarko Obradović, but please don't talk about the numbers, how much anyone has won, because, you know, anything can turn into a result and when you win in the first round for the 900,000 presidential elections, you get 460 in the local, you declare 460 by winning. Don't do it, because the people know it, and it's not good. Here you go, Milosh.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8266	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that, after these local elections, there is anxiety in one political party... (votes – which). There's anxiety in the Democratic Party, and if there's anxiety, it's obvious that you've gotten far less than you've ever had before. And if you lose something then you're trying verbally to make up for it here. It's not possible. As for the unity of the ruling coalition, therefore, the prime minister called a meeting Friday. It is precisely the meeting that demonstrates the unity of the ruling coalition. The only one who didn't demonstrate unity was the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. Therefore, the President of the Republic cannot say that he supports the meeting when it will not come to him, and that, therefore, he also steps forward to the Assembly and says that the Assembly will not listen, and that, by the way, mentions the law on the National Assembly, that he will not sign it, even though he has not even read it and has not come to it, etc. It's called irresponsible politics. And as for the unity of the ruling coalition, you see for yourself that there is political stability, that there is financial stability in the country, that soon the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be found on the agenda, and I don't see how, apart from verbally, you want to disrupt that unity. So whoever in some way lost the local elections is trying to get them here, which is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8267	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Is that by the Rules of Procedure or is that a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8268	Replica, under Article 97. Thank you. Comrades and friends from the Socialist International, if doing it in the European spirit is what people are getting "plastic bags" on their heads, then we don't want to do something like that as a party. If it's the fact that "shock bombs" gets into people's apartments, then it's not an acceptable act for us. If the fact that the vote from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, preferable to certain products, which the European Union has given us, is broken by tycoons smuggling that same sugar, taking extra profits into their pockets, then that's not what we're going to do. The other thing, as far as the coalitions are concerned, we said in principle, there is no coalition with those who break down the state. You went to the coalition with them, you gave the Duke's coat of arms, you gave her a flag. Now you want to give the Constitution to her. Well, gentlemen, you can do that, but believe in the Democratic Party of Serbia, you'll have a big opponent, you'll have a party that will only make coalitions with state-run parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8269	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8270	Dear fellow Members of the People, I went out for a pay phone to advertise on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs Stojacic. Article 99 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that an MP should speak about what is on the agenda. And she didn't do it -- she was talking about something that wasn't on the agenda, about Kosovo and Metohija in an extremely incorrect and politically and stately manner and whatever you want, whatever you want, the way. Mrs Stojacic, for you and your comrades, and for everyone else who doesn't know that, Resolution 1244 and the Kumanian Agreement were an honorable way to end NATO's aggression on our country. The aggression that lasted 78 days and nights, which has done terrible damage to our country and killed many people, (the voice – shame and any) aggression of those countries that financed your political activity, the aggression of those countries that you called for to bomb Serbia.... (loud – not true). Yes, it is! That's right! Look at the NIN of March 18th this year, so you will see that the Democratic Party's leaders gave lectures in Germany and called for our country to be bombed. If you have facts, talk about them. But don't make a disastrous political move by your party, whose president and president of Serbia, whose call was made by 0.25% of citizens, to disguise and to talk about other things that don't stand. Please, say, "he has made a mistake" or avoid the topic – Kosovo and Metohija. Because you were the government, you didn't do anything. Your partners, your commanders are making Kosovo and Metohija what they did, and you're missing the stories of past times. Even those who helped the Democratic Party, which financed the democratic party, do not hide that they were doing it for the sake of Albanians. And that human rights story, the humanitarian disaster, even they don't tell her. (Glasses – lost in the US elections). Of course. You should ask why Boris Tadic left, his first visit to America. Ask yourself why he went to America first, for eight days, to work breakfast. And now, it represents the views of the American administration. Answer the citizens of Serbia to that question. You're missing the story of Resolution 1244. If there was no resolution, we wouldn't have a legal basis for fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. We would not have the legal basis to fight for Kosovo and Metohija, and when we ourselves jump into our mouths and open the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, the way the Democratic Party says it, it is deeply against the state, not to mention that it is against those poor people down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8271	Thank you. On what basis, Mrs. Stojcic? (The People's MP Stojačić, from the place – I was mentioned. Well, you caused the replica, so you don't have the right to do it. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've caused a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Snježana Lakicevic-Stojacic's emissary insists he gets the word, but the president does not allow it, because he does not have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. You can't, you want to take your word for it, it's not right. You're the one who caused the replica. The secretary warned me that you had no right to reply. The word is Bosko Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure. By what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8272	Article 96. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8273	In Article 96, it is said that only the presidents of parliamentary groups can talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The president of the parliamentary group is obliged to make those provisions, which the other MP states, that in his opinion, is hurt, that he is quoting and explaining - what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8274	Please, Mr. Zarko Obradovic reported to the Rules of Procedure and challenged the replica. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Ask the secretary about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8275	I asked him, and that's exactly what he said. According to this article you have now quoted, you have no right to speak. I can give you my word under Article 97, but I can't do it by article 96. Here, you have a word under Rule 97.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8276	I thank the President for his goodwill to allow me to speak, although I believe he usurps the law and prevents us from saying which injuries the Rules of Procedure have been committed here. Mr. Zarko Obradovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, when called by the Rules of Procedure to one of the MPs or to a negative, malicious, or incorrect exposure to him, the MP has the right to replication. In this case, the chairman broke the Rules of Procedure because he denied Mrs. Lakicevic the right to replicate Mr. Zarko Obradovic's exposure. But the atmosphere is like this, obviously precisely because of this monolithic uniqueness of the current coalition and this government. Obviously, there are no rifts and cracks in the current coalition, so this is the atmosphere in the congregation. I would ask the chairman to return the debate, of course when he allows Mrs. Lakicevic's replica, just as she belongs, and that is the law on peaceful work dispute resolution. It seems to me that the tension here has increased precisely because there is anxiety in the ruling coalition before the upcoming budget is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8277	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Bosko Ristic for his contribution to continuing the debate on this subject. I ask all MPs to return to the agenda theme. The word has a folk MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8278	Mr. Chairman, I would like you to continue to take care of the violation of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to MPs who form the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8279	Of course, always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8280	Today, we have two laws on the agenda, among other things, laws relating to social justice: the law on socio-economic councils and the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. The team before, the strange statements we just heard about this pay phone, which, with disdain, speak of the Socialist International. Incredibly, in relation to the parliamentary group they come from, in relation to the ruling structure that is the proposing of these laws, which primarily refers to laws that need to be introduced to some extent by social justice into our legal system. I'll remind you that you are the promoters, among other things, of this law. The law has many social democratic provisions. In a country where social democratic roots are deeply rooted, in which social justice is something that is spoken of, in a country which, objectively, because of social misery, is introduced by the rule of those who now remind us of why bombs have fallen and who brought them, and now they are looking for excuses for the mistakes made in the previous period, something that makes you, me, and all MPs in the National Assembly have to take care of everything that has a social sign. For this reason, the Democratic Party will, of course, have many objections to the socio-economic council law and to the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, vote for them because it has awareness. He is aware that problems in Serbia exist. Because it has the awareness that certain solutions in these laws are not good, although this law makes different evaluations of other positive regulations that regulate the same matter, the question of how Article 153 will apply. The labour law, because this law also provides for the standards provided for in this law, although the law did not come to the agenda, and perhaps it should have been discussed earlier. Yes, lex specsialis, and it is one of the characteristics that you are trying and with the Law on the National Assembly to present to us, as well as the retroactivity that you want to regulate certain issues, which are not adequate, according to our legal system – that is what you cannot defend yourself from. Yes, you have a consensus of the ruling structure, you have this consensus of only one thing – to stay in power for as long as possible. Because you know that in the next election, as a few years ago, some of those who have addressed and raised doubts about the number of votes and voters the Democratic Party has won will be a statistical error in the upcoming elections, because they were at the level of a statistical error in the recent local elections. This fear of a statistical error is what makes you united about certain things, united about making a majority in the National Assembly, united about inaction, united in decision-making, united only in sitting in chairs in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We don't need that consensus either. The consensus does not need Serbian citizens either. This consensus is something that we already pay dearly, and I'm afraid the price will be really high when we get to power and continue the reforms that we have started and which are only possible to do what you've all voted here for, and that's European integration. Therefore, please, in the future when you speak for this speaker, take care of the laws that are on the agenda. Take care of the laws you're proposing. Discreting the social issue, discrediting social issues, discrediting social policy, discrediting through a story that you want to degrade all those who think that a socialist idea is something that's right. Unfortunately, our country has long been represented by the wrong people, and that's a different story. No one will understand you, but those who understand you will surely deny you your trust. Of course, it's hypocritical to look at things that way. The hypocrite was also consensually reached in the ruling majority. It's another feature that every one of us who deals with politics, but also those who look at us on the side, can certainly, as a characteristic, notice. Then don't be legislators of laws that solve social issues, which solve social ageing problems. Don't be proposing and forming institutions in this country that will in some way drive strikers and people with problems from your government, from your ministries. Don't take out the budget money to resuscitate the strikes. Don't drag this country any deeper than what you've led her to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8281	Let me get this straight. I have made an effort to return to the agenda, to allow, by the way of the Rules of Procedure, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party to speak. Unfortunately, we failed because we did not return to the agenda, because the opening exhibition was used for another topic. That's why we have replicas now. The president of the DSS parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8282	Ms Stojačić spoke as a representative of the motionor and, in accordance with Article 89, at a time when she could not get the right to speak, because by using her 20 minutes, the representatives of the promoter could come forward at the beginning of the debate, in accordance with the order laid down by the Rules of Procedure, Article 89, and they can use it in two segments: the first 10 minutes at the beginning of the opening presentation and 10 minutes as the final word. In doing so, while Mrs Stojacic was talking to us here again, she was saying some amazing things, giving political qualifications, political assessments and speaking about social policy, and in this context she was talking about the ruling coalition in Serbia. When it comes to the Socialist International and your accession to the movement, it speaks of your commitment to left-wing ideas or ultimately as far as many of you are concerned with communist ideas. It's your right. You have the right to love and worship it, but joining a communist, socialist, other international, doesn't mean that your program and your fact has ever had or will ever have any social dimension. That's what you must never forget. And the social dimension of those who rule is reflected in laws and projects that are being adopted and how they will reflect on the life of the population. So leave that demagogue somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8283	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8284	Member of the 95th says - the MP is obliged to tell the truth about the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when someone belongs to the Socialist International, then he does not vote for the Labour Act that leaves half a million people in Serbia without a job! When someone belongs to the Socialist International, then he does not vote for such a law that only provides employers with an effective dismissal! When someone belongs to the Socialist International, he advocates the principles of social justice! When someone belongs to the Socialist International, he's not associated, he's real!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8285	That's not in Article 95, but we can treat Article 100. MP Shormaz, breach of the Rules of Procedure. To quote the exact article, not to speak by heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8286	Article 100. - We have a duty to respect that we speak to each other and speak the truth or at least things we know about. I would like to say briefly, the public is working, so that there is no confusion that the MPs do not know because one of the MPs has stated what she has stated. The pears fall from the tree. From the pear, and the bombs are hard to drop. Bombs are being dropped and I know it as a member of the anti-aircraft artillery that took part in the war. We were bombed, bombs didn't just fall on us, so there's guilt, of course, and those who ran the country at the time, but there can't be any guilt about those who dropped those bombs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8287	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister is gone, but I hope that during the debate, there will be an opportunity for me to address him personally. My debate in the principle of proposals could end these two laws in one sentence, however, the key word in that sentence is the one I cannot pronounce from this pay phone without being warned. It's because of the culture of dialogue, just to convey, the ambience of those who are dissatisfied with the state in which they live, their social status, their material position and the conditions in which they work. In these texts of the bill, I cannot help but say that it repeats itself in several proposals adopted earlier, these same texts of the bill signed by the Government and puts it in the assembly procedure. After discussing and confronting opinions, adopting these laws, they remain as laws that are not applied in practice. So, the government, whether it's present, ex, but mostly, doesn't insist on applying the regulations itself. For this reason it happens in practice that voters, citizens often do not distinguish the legislative and executive power, so we are equally ugly, and you have seen the texts in the paper as many of us swearing, thinking that we are doing the same job, useless to citizens and very impertinent. That is why you would distance yourself from such a government that is trying to solve problems, propose that they be resolved outside the institutions, and we advocate that we strengthen the institutions of the system, that rules be applied, that we be serious and consistent in applying the rules. What to say about these two draft laws. It is an assessment that it wants social unrest to be amortised, that ministers have more time for jobs from the profession, and that someone else solves conflict problems, i.e. accumulated problems, strikes problems, etc. I'll explain on the case if we try to translate these regulations into practice. In practical conditions, what it means to establish a social council, bearing in mind their objective and what the council is doing, how it decides, what it decides, what attitudes it takes, and what it informs the minister and the government. In the case of a company where the state is a majority capital owner, in the case of the Majdanpek Copper Mines, which is a company composed of RTB Bor parent company, where, whether it is the government or the current government, it is less important, that the company's board of directors be put up by the government board, directors who are representatives of the government. So he's got a steering and executive function and he owns a company. There may be five years of government, or if this government is a smaller period, it does not care about the company. A real employer is the head of the company. He worries about how his company works, takes care that he can sell a product on the market, hires a professional workforce, creates conditions by respecting all provisions of the laws relating to the work of enterprises, by the Company Act, the Labour Protection Act, the Labour Act, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, etc. In the context of this law, you say you saw in the world how others do it. What can this group of people, no matter how elected they are: representatives of the government, unions, representatives of the Union of employers. What can the miners tell us, what our material status is, the economic position, whether it's an employer or an employee, when we know for five years, and no government move is directed to solve these problems. Very slow, tromo or nothing. Of the 3,000 employees in the Mejdanpek Copper Mine, we have reduced to 1,300 and as the owner of the company, as the owner, we have not invested funds for the development of the company, for the restoration of equipment, for the purchase of spare parts, we have not allocated funds for the purchase of re-romatics, we have not employed workers who are formally in the working relationship. We don't produce copper anymore, we don't sell, and the state's suffering it, it doesn't take any more serious steps to resolve this status. What to do in the context and relationship of employer – employees? The miners come out, strike, block the "parathin loop" and after a few days of strike, the government takes the seriousness of the problem. He comes out and he promises a quick solution to the problem, and he doesn't! I listened to your statement on TV, which made me bitter, and I have to tell you, when you said that all those who haven't been paid contributions to pension and disability insurance, they don't expect to have their work hours regulated. What do you do where the state owns the company? You know that, by law, the employer is obliged to deliver the billing list to the worker when calculating the earnings. If he doesn't, he'll be punished by both the employer and the responsible worker. We received regular salary billing, with all suspensions: contributions and taxes for pension, disability, health and unemployment protection. In the end, after a year, we find out that the state didn't pay off those funds, even though it was on the checklist. What are the legal consequences of such work? When it owns a private company, an entrepreneur, it is in a small number of cases, a smaller number of employees and a smaller social problem. What do you do when big systems, like the flag, are like RTB Bor, like the ZTP, like companies where the state is the majority owner? How these legal consequences are resolved, because it is unacceptable for the government, the state does not insist on applying its own rules. When it comes to the employer's obligation, only one detail of pension-inhabited insurance shall, within a fixed period, provide the competent subsidiary of the pension-inhabited insurance data on earnings and time spent at work within the first quarter. He hasn't done it in a year, and no one's been punished. When a worker fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 19(1) of point (3) of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and submits a request for the exercise of pension and disability insurance rights, he shall receive the answer that he does not have a regulated insurance position and asks for him to decide on his own, to pay. Where'd the money come from? Were these commitments made to the state if the employer was obliged to settle it within a certain time limit? How could he, according to the rules that apply, pay off profits without paying off liabilities based on contributions and taxes, and not being punished? And after five years, some companies haven't regulated pension and disability insurance obligations. In the end, you say the state won't be able to resuscitate, regulate. Is there a case somewhere in the West that someone doesn't pay so many years and they don't get punished, they don't get locked up, that company isn't driven into bankruptcy, bankruptcy, etc.? That's what's unforgivable. Can this advice, in any way chosen, regardless of knowledge, wisdom, wisdom, show otherwise when it comes to conflict between the employer and the employee. Only in a part relating to a peaceful conflict resolution - is there any other way, a restless way? What does that mean, "a peaceful way of conflict from work relations"? If an employer fires an employee, he obeys the provisions of the law, when he can cancel that, if an employee thinks he has a basis, he will press charges against the court. When a court case is filed, there is the possibility of a labour inspector, if there are obvious violations of the labour law's provisions, to return an employee to work until the trial is completed. You don't need a peacemaker, you don't need an arbiter, but to insist on applying existing laws, respect for regulations, discipline, and then we won't have, as you say, conflicts. I don't know if anyone solved the problem by hitting the employer, so he got some right. It's mostly in the institutions of the system. To finish, I think one and the other bill was designed only in the desire to disband the minister and the ministry. I'm not saying it'll go with their hands. Workers are looking for direct contact with the ministry, the minister, and often also with the Prime Minister, because they are long waiting to solve these problems, and they are not solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8289	The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8290	Just a few sentences that are directly related to these two laws, since the subject is not directly, which is spoken here, about these laws, though I will mention them, of course. Since RTB "Bor" was mentioned yesterday, and it is mentioned today, only a few things need to be said, in order not to be mistaken. When it comes to RTB "Bor" and "Majdanpek", in those mines, in the 1990s and before that, it's about to stop investing, you living in Bora know it very well, by taking down the discrepancy, and you're going into a senseless exploitation and you've come to the well. You know exactly what this is about. In the past 10 to 15 years, the complete absence of investment in RTB "Bor" and "Maydanpek" has led both mines to the well, as they say. Now, huge investments are needed, which were previously lagging behind, because there was a senseless exploitation available without investment, in order to eventually bring it back to life. That's the first thing. For truth's sake, that should be known. It didn't fall off Mars, the Bora and Majdanpek problem. Secondly, regarding Bor and Majdanpek, the only solution to those two mines or those two companies is to find a serious investor who will seriously invest. According to the information I have, and first of all, I should ask the Minister of Economy, because I'm not covering it, but I've been informed that there are serious conversations with some investors who are willing to invest. What we need to tell the workers, we need to tell the truth, that they have a future if we find an investor who will invest there. That's right, like it or not. The other thing you mentioned, I also have to comment, and it's about connecting the internships. We're talking about connecting the internships, the problem of non-payment of contributions. First of all, there's only one thing I'd like to say is that one predicate of the law that we have in the Ministry, and on this issue, I hope that we're going to go out relatively quickly with that text in one debate, we're covering the period since 1992, according to that idea. So, the problem of not connecting the internships started from 1992 to today. This government is doing two things about it. One thing is, as you probably know, through the Development Fund, not to tell that story right now, it's a conversion, when it comes to the entire company, the collective, and it covers the internship. So we covered the internship, for example. The flag and many companies, when it comes to employees. The second thing it does, when it comes to individual cases, for the period since 1992, is prepare this law that I mentioned, which should now be the other group of people, who are not associated with the internship, to solve. So that's two things I think you should say here and know what's going on with Bora, what can be done with Bora, what about connecting the internships and what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8291	National MP Nikola Todorovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8292	Mr. Minister, I told the story in the context of the state's commitment to its own laws, when it comes to paying off profits and solving contributions. It wasn't done. How could this state-owned company afford to afford to "respect" the regulations of its own state? As far as RTB "Bor" is concerned, I have 37 years of internships in RTB "Bor" and I know the problem well. There are many mistakes, which are states, which are us ourselves who have worked during that period. RTB "Bor" and "Maydanpek" copper mine have installed 12,350,000 tonnes of annual ore processing capacity. In order to produce 12,350,000 ore, it needs 40 million tons of excavations, total, when it comes to digging machinery, starting at phases, from drilling, mining, loading, transport, grinding, etc., until the copper concentrate that we melt at the Boor Topionica is obtained. We produced 50-60 tons of copper in the concentrate. There were three to five tons of gold in that copper, 12 to 13 times more silver, selenium, etc. It's according to the plans and programmes of mine development, those five-year plans, long-term plans. I speak from 1983 to 2000. Then we developed capacities, in 2000 we have 14, 16, even 18 million tons of ore. We were building new processing facilities, we didn't have enough ore for installed capacity. There are a lot of mistakes, but I'm telling you about the time when it was a state-owned company. When the state manages and manages the company and makes the wrong decisions or does not make any decisions, and the problem is slowly solved, and the miners have nothing to eat, they have nothing to live on, they have no basic existential conditions, and we are a state-owned enterprise. The state does not take a step further to train the company, to lead it to a situation to prepare for bankruptcy and liquidation or now to bankrupt or sell. There's nothing to sell in mining. Earth to sell, we can't. He owns the state, all I can do is concession. The equipment has run out, the technology is old, it needs to be copied all over again to remove the huge accumulated gaps in order to reach the reserves that are present, and they are undetected, so that they can be exploited. It's hard for us miners who are in that area, and for you professors who aren't in that area, and often you're in the role and you decide to convince someone who will invest money, to exploit ore that's relatively poor; where metal content is 35%, where huge costs are, when it comes to capacities that we don't have today, and we've had, I'm telling you, we've had annual capacity up to 40 million tons of excavations, to take off a gap that we haven't taken off for 10 or 15 years, and to come to a utopian, to produce some amount of ore so that it can be profitablely exploited. So, to cover the costs, to earn from copper and to settle all obligations to the state. The Mejdanpek copper mine will be called if it produces 13, 30 or 40 million tons. So, the same will be called. The question is whether there are investments and whether this government can invest so much money to make some production at four or five million tonnes, as the government owns the company, the state owns it. I'm not saying it's this government, I don't speak politically, I speak professionally. So, can the owner of the company, the boss, the one who's interested in the company work well, reduce costs, the one who's interested in having a good organisational structure, therefore, have professional people who in all phases are going to meet all the work processes, so if it's not right, he's going to get fired in accordance with the law. Our director doesn't have the conditions to fire a worker or a worker who doesn't do his job, or who doesn't listen. Someone started commenting yesterday, whose behaviour is not in line with the expectations of employers, because no provision in Article 101 can be made. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8293	I know it's too late, but the theme is RTB "Bor."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8294	Article 101 of Item 1 108 of the Labour Act cannot be applied because there are six or seven remaining earnings. So there are unsettled commitments, and there is no cancellation unless it pays back the backlog, if it doesn't pay the severance fee and only to declare a worker as a worker whose work has stopped the need. In this mine, when the process of production is launched, there is a need to employ a large number of professional people, healthy, qualified, and at the same time there are a large number of people who are surplus; they have lost their working ability or their working ability to be reduced, because they are very difficult working conditions in mining and what the state, i.e. the company did not invest in the necessary measures and protection at work, which they often do in impossible conditions, and there are no adequate means of protection at work. It's all a problem, but I'm talking in the context of the boss, i.e. the owner of the company, because he has to worry about the company he owns, with a desire for the company to do a good job, to make a living, not to make any losses. I didn't criticise you as a minister, because there were Ministers Bubalo and Naumov, but to promise not to do anything, or to promise, and not to remember how to solve this problem, that's not right. It doesn't matter whether this government is or not. Someone was talking about Mr. Zivkovic's government. At that time, I lost a year of internships and something, even though I worked all the time and received a profit, a small one, with a delay of five or six months, but I didn't get paid contributions to the PIO. Could the state allow such indiscipline and for those you mentioned earlier, because it's a difficult situation somewhere, and it's easier somewhere. It is not correct for a worker who appears with a request from a competent branch to exercise his pension insurance right, to solve that problem himself! Should he sue the state, the company, who to sue? He can't do it himself, unless the state helps force the employer to settle his obligations to the state, or PIO to make the worker work first; and when he can't work anymore, when he's lost his ability to work, because he's been working under these difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8295	Thank you. I apologize for making it possible for four minutes longer than is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, but given the importance of the subject, since RTB is "Bor", I think it is acceptable for all MPs. The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8296	Just to finish around Bora: the social programme about Bora, which the previous government had brought, was mostly realised, the subsidies went as they went, and what was last, I'm not talking about the past, it was the time of the protest, there were three things that were agreed on. The first thing is to get support, essentially, from the government to reach average earnings in the Republic through increased production. According to the information I have, they're around here somewhere, they're close. As for other things, and that's the thing that's for Bor Fate, if we didn't do it now, the whole story is for nothing, and that's to make a "restructure decision" so that the trustees don't eat them. So that's where we made the decision, so Bor is protected from the trustees until we find a strategic investor. Third, it was agreed that the government would guarantee, or mediate, a more serious commercial loan. That's three things. What I want to point out is, these are two important things, the decision to restructure is Bor saved from the trustees, and now we have room to deal with a strategic partner and through an increase in production this would be realized. When it comes to Bor, that's it. You're right when you open the question and you say that the worker is not responsible for his internship not being paid and what's in the problem, and I said we're working on solving that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8297	Mr. Rankic, on what grounds? You have no right to a replica. You know what? Someone might have felt called that someone mentioned him a month ago. Mr. Rankic, you have no right to a replica, you are not called. It's for yesterday, and today it's for today. When they call you, you'll be entitled to a replica. We continue to work in order of the reported. Be careful, Mr. Minister spoke on the basis of Mr. Todorovic's discussion. Mr. Todorovic, on that basis, got the right to a replica and I think we're done with that thing. Mr. Rankic, if he feels called, when he gets the word after discussion, he can pollute, and yesterday what happened, I don't know, we're moving on today. The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic, and let Jovan Palalic be prepared, not, but Zlatan Jovanovic. There's been a switch, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is indisputable that a new labour law should be passed as soon as possible. We have two draft laws in the field of labour and social legislation: a bill on the socio-economic council and a proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. The first regulates the establishment and work of the socio-economic council. The Social-Economic Council was educated in 2001, with an agreement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a representative union and representative employers' associations. Since we have insufficiently developed social dialogue and lack of social partners' activity in collective bargaining, both at the border level and at the level of the Republic, by adopting a special law defining the establishment and operation of a socio-economic council, we would create preconditions for the development and improvement of social dialogue on the principle of tripartiteness. The social-economic council is an independent body. The aim of its establishment is to encourage and improve the mutual co-operation of authorities, representative trade unions and employers' associations in order to raise the level of standard of living of citizens, as a result of improving working conditions, development of negotiation and peaceful resolution of collective labour disputes. The decentralisation of business to this government, I mean local, is seen through the socio-economic council at local level and deals with local problems. In the process of concluding changes or complementarity of collective agreements or their application, disputes often arise that social partners fail to resolve by agreement. He then resorts to strikes, which not so rarely result in concessions, and all together he has negative consequences for employees and employers. There are also a number of individual labour disputes arising from the achievement of individual rights and labour obligations. Such disputes are numerous. The complexity of the procedure based on civil procedural law takes a long, unorthodox and many years, which directly affects the increase in the amount of damages the employer is obliged to pay to the employee on behalf of the lost earnings, in the event of unlawful termination of the labour contract. By applying the Labour Act in Article 121, it provides for the possibility of a negotiated settlement of issues between the employer and the person employed before arbitration. The position of the 5th legislator stresses that the arbitration decision is final and that it obliges the employer and the employee. It is in the interest of both employers and employees to settle disputes over the exercise of individual rights in a shorter procedure and out of court. However, there is no institutionalised service in the Republic of Serbia for the peaceful resolution of labour disputes. The proposed law, on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, creates legal assumptions that individual and collective labour disputes are removed from the jurisdiction of regular courts - they last shorter and cheaper, and that is the interest of both employees and employers. The introduction of peaceful work dispute resolution would have a positive impact on the development of social dialogue. The parties in the dispute voluntarily decide whether to resolve working disputes through peaceful methods. Depending on the parties to the dispute, i.e. the subject matter of the dispute, labour disputes are divided into: - collective labour disputes, which arise from the conclusion of changes or addition of collective agreements, application of collective agreements, the exercise of the right to trade union organisation and strike; - individual disputes, these are disputes between the employee and employer regarding the cancellation of the labour contract and payment of minimum earnings. The process of peaceful resolution of collective and individual labour disputes is based on the principle of "deservation" and "unbiasedness". The collective work dispute is conducted in front of the peacemaker, and the individual in front of the arbitration panel. The draft law regulates the choice of a peacemaker and arbiter, their exemption, the course of the procedure, sets out deadlines for the taking of certain actions in the settlement process and the type of decisions to be taken. The adoption of these two draft laws as part of the overall work and social legislation, with the adoption of a new labour law, would continue to reform the work legislation of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8299	The word of the People's Messenger is Zlatan Jovanovic, let Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8300	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start my discussion with that people's house is on fire and the grandmother is combing. I simply can't help but feel that these legal proposals today are only for the sake of order in the Assembly, so that this ministry will show that it is doing something and that it is in some way participating in political life. In fact, it's the first impression, and if they look a little deeper and read these suggestions, which are ahead of us, it comes to the main reason why these laws are in the process today, which is the need of this government to hide behind some cover, to find some law, to find some mediator between disgruntled workers and the government. The point is, in fact, the government's desire to, in some ways, debilitate the enormous dissatisfaction of workers about what's been going on in the last four years. As a result, it was much smarter and more meaningful that this ministry went straight after the formation, i.e. the vote of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in amending the Labour Act, to get right to the point, not to deal with what should be the consequence of the Labour Law. Namely, the essence of the Labour Act is. He generates, he produces dissatisfaction, he produces all of this in terms of these two legislative proposals: dissatisfaction and disputes, and the need to resolve these disputes. As far as the first proposal is concerned, it is a bill on the socio-economic council, I will try briefly to make some of my remarks on this proposal. First, I want to refer to the fact that this council has existed since 2001 and that the minister confirmed it yesterday. Although many citizens probably didn't even know it existed, because the effects of the work of the council are invisible. And the minister confirmed it yesterday saying that the council so far was "a shell without content". I wonder and ask the Minister (he is not here right now) what guarantees that if this law is voted on, it will have a content, or that this council, which is voted upon by this law, will have a content. On the other hand, I would ask the Minister: what is the previous council, what are the effects of the work of this council, why have we not received any report on the work of this council - and it has existed for three years and spent significant resources for its work, and there is no effect anywhere?- I'm sorry. This council proposed and set up by this law has 18 members of the council, a tripartite body that includes representatives of the government, representatives of employers and trade unions. In addition, however, this council will also have one technical service, which is a secretariat that will carry out organisational and administrative and technical tasks. I would like to stress that this secretariat as a technical service will also have a certain number of employees, which, of course, will only increase the accumulated bureaucracy in our society and require certain resources for its work. The tasks of this council are also contained in Article 9. It is said that this council is considering issues of development and promotion of collective bargaining, the impact of economic policy and the measure for its implementation on social development and stability, employment policies, profit and price policies, etc. So, questions from this area. The Social Council, under this Article 9, takes views on issues which it considers and delivers to the Government. It is further said (in a member) that this council makes decisions by consensus, i.e. to make a decision requires the consent of all members of the council. I'm interested in whether a decision will be made sometime, if we know that in this council, representatives of groups that are diametrically different or conflicting in their own interests? How and when will agreement be reached between them, if their interests are so different and conflicted? Also, article 10 states that the council delivers its opinion to the ministry. If the ministry does not respond to the advice within 30 days, then the council can forward its opinion to the government. It says "can," not "must." But this is all debateable because there is no obligation to adopt these views, or obligation to accept the views of this council. In response to Mr Dragan Colic's amendment, a solution like this, the decision to make by consensus, does not block the work of this council, as attitudes and opinions of this body do not commit. What good is a body if its attitudes and opinions do not commit? What's all this for? Article 11 states that this advice can also educate working bodies, and that: let it be permanent and let it be occasional. These working bodies can be attended by representatives of NGOs, as well as prominent scientists, experts, etc. I wonder, now where does a non-governmental organization in a single body founded by the government? What's his role in this, and who's going to finance all this? Is this just one new way for the hairs to fail, to fund NGOs? Let me remind you, the previous government funded NGOs directly from the budget, and this -- probably shouldn't have gone that far, so now it's finding some other way to fund NGOs. As far as these local councils are concerned, it leaves the possibility for municipalities to form these councils, for their level, where they will, by analogous to the republican council, be educated with representatives of local authorities, trade unions and employers, at local level. However, it says here that if two participants launch an initiative to educate the local council, the other participants are obliged to accept the initiative. I don't know why you're talking in the crowd, because if there's two more participants left, then that remaining, third, has to accept the initiative. I wonder now, what happens if local unions and employers start with an initiative to educate this council? Then it means that the local government must also accept this initiative, that the council is formed, and the law states that the work of the council is financed by local self-government. That means it has to be on the budget burden. Do you know what the financial situation is in the municipalities, in the bar?- I'm sorry. Do these budgets even have room for another cost like this? The information works, a new government was launched in Baja Basta, and the first SO decision was borrowing, a 15 million loan, so that they could survive. From now on, where to finance another council, another body that will address some issues that are not at all relevant or crucial to the life and work of our citizens. At the end of this law, in Article 24, we are talking about the means necessary for the work of this council on a republican level. It said that this year, according to this law, four million dinars are allocated for the work of this council and that the 2005 budget provides for 15 million dinars. It's just over a million dinars a month to work this council. If we consider that he will have 18 members who will have certain fees or rewards for his work, that he has a secretariat that is likely to be bulky, I think this 15 million is small, not enough. Of course, I'm not asking anymore, just that this proposal should be withdrawn from the procedure. I think that these funds are unrealistically projected and projected, that it will take a lot more resources. That the actual costs of the work of this council will be much higher than they are proposed here. As for the law on peaceful dispute settlement - and that is one law that is a complete failure at the moment, should be withdrawn from the procedure, as well as the previous proposal. There's a whole new thing going on again. This law establishes a new agency, which will have a job, i.e. to peacefully resolve labour disputes between employers and employees, both collectively and individually. This provides peacemakers for collective disputes and arbitration for individual, or individual disputes. Article 21 states that if the parties to the dispute fail to determine their representative, then the settlement procedure shall be conducted by the peacemaker directly contacting the parties to the dispute. Nowhere is the possibility for parties to the dispute to give up during the dispute, and Article 5 speaks of a way of volunteering. If there's a way of volunteering then there's the possibility that every party in the dispute will, at any point, give up. For collective disputes, Article 26 refers to the recommendation made by the Peacekeeper, or by the Peace Committee, which is not binding on parties to the dispute. As far as individual disputes are concerned, the arbitration panel shall adopt a solution (Article 36).). What is not logical, there is no analogy between the settlement process in the collective dispute and the arbitration process in the individual dispute. However, when a decision is taken by the committee in the settlement process, it must be agreed with – both parties in the dispute, in order for it to be acceptable, i.e. to be accepted. In the case of arbitration, a solution shall be adopted by the arbitration panel, which shall be bound by the arbitration panel, i.e. it shall become judicial and executive although the parties in the dispute do not give consent. That's just impossible. So the parties in the dispute have to agree to a solution so that it is justifiable and enforceable. I propose to the minister, although he is not here, that this should be withdrawn from the procedure because at this point it is declassified for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8301	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and then Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS MP's group at the session yesterday afternoon presented its position and objections to both proposed laws. The key objection of the SPS parliamentary group is that these two laws are passed before the labour law or before its amendments and additions. That's not good. First the labour law was to be passed, then only these two laws, or at the same time, in the package, at one session. No harm would be done if these two laws were to wait for the labour law and if they were to follow the labour law, because they both have enough opportunities for now, and through the economic and social council and through one bad labour law that still gives the possibility to settle disputes peacefully. The key objection is this. Since we talked a little bit more about the proposal for a social council law, I'm going to stick to the law on peaceful work dispute resolution. To take advantage of the opportunity to make a few more observations and warnings to the proposer, i.e. to ask for answers from the legislator. In line with the SPS policy, the peaceful resolution of any dispute, in any action, in any area, deserves support. A peaceful solution to the work dispute, like a system to which it is sought, to be affirmed, too. We agree with that. What we disagree on and what I want to warn the promoter about is that the adoption of this law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes must not be like a means to appease disgruntled workers! It must not make inefficient dispute resolution even more inefficient.- I'm sorry. He can't delay changing the labour law! Already, the reason for the law is – "very often there are disputes that social partners fail to resolve by agreement, or by peaceful methods, but they resort to collective action methods - strikes". And immediately there goes the warning – the strike must not be prevented. The point is to eliminate the causes leading to the strike. We know and agree that social reforms are not without social peace, but there are no social reforms, no social peace without social justice, and we warn the promoter. Secondly, it says that numerous disputes in the exercise of individual rights, individual labour disputes in the exercise of individual labour rights, are true and we agree with that. Look at the reasons for the law. Who's always been damaged? He's always a damaged worker, because he gets fired from his work contract. Unfortunately, employees don't fire an employer. His claim for protection of rights is being fought over a long period of time. This argument that even the employer has an interest in being as short as possible - I'm not sure that it is, because even when a decision is finally made after years of dispute, when the employer has to pay the fee, the employer can easily pay someone else's money and bear no responsibility for it. I've noted all of this for a reason to see that employees are very interested in resolving the dispute, of course, for peaceful dispute resolution. But is the employer interested if the Labour Law gives him great authority? What's the employer's interest? What mechanism can an employer afford to settle work disputes peacefully if it is not in his interest, if it has great authority? There is the essence of the problem, which points to one danger, which we warn the legislators of. Let's not let this law continue, by extending these deadlines and actions, to help the employer. Also, the reason for the law's adoption states that one of the basic reasons for this situation, which I was just talking about, is the fact that there is no institutionalised service in the Republic of Serbia that would help to find a solution by providing peaceful work dispute resolution services. I don't argue that it is, but I don't think that's the reason either. The basic reason is in the enormous rights of the employer, who gave him the Labour Law, while on the other hand there is a second-rate role for dissident workers. When looking at the objective of passing the law, the legislator set four goals. They're not in their own right. But have the conditions for achieving these goals been secured in parallel with that? For the process and practice of peaceful dispute resolution, there must be a proper degree of democracy, but they do, in a society where all social events are respected and treated with respect. In this area in Serbia, that is not the case. In Serbia, autocracy and terror are stronger over the weak. This refers in particular to the position of employer and employee, employer as all-powerful, and employee as fully decommissioned, reduced to the level of the figure. However, the relationship between the employer and the employee is regulated in basic law, in the Labour Law. So, in order to create conditions for peaceful dispute resolution, it is necessary to define and respect employees' rights, not to list them all: the right to work, working time, earnings, benefits, health and social protection, to help a family that is socially endangered, to protect women, mothers and children, etc. I remind you, these are all the rights that the arrival of DOS, in 2000, were abolished, with an explanation that they were "relicts of the past". And then the government persistently persuaded workers by offering one assault privatisation that robbed companies, convincing workers that they would all be capitalists and no one would be a worker. Also, parallel to that, the amendments to the Labour Act that prevented workers from protesting such privatisation, which dissuaded him, again convincing workers that they would all be employers, and no one would be a worker. When we talk about unions later, remember, at the time the president of one of the unions, whom they call representative, was not sure whether he was the minister of labor, who was representatively passed such a law! Therefore, in order to create conditions for peaceful dispute resolution, it is an obligation to amend the Labour Relations Act, which must clearly define the rights of employees and employers, which can regulate relations and foresee sanctions for non-compliance with them. This provides both impartiality and rapid response. Secondly, a package of social laws should be returned which respects the worker as an expert and partner. They should ensure the conditions for a worker to live with dignity, independence, with full respect for the law's rights, but that I am also a worker to experience such a relationship. Third, it is necessary to restore the position of the union, which is lost and belittled, due to the union's relationship with the adoption of these two laws. One question for the promoter – does the Ministry have reliable data that are, in fact, representative trade unions and which are representative employers' associations? Fourth, collective agreements – who today cares about a collective contract and what impact does it have on the position of workers?- I'm sorry. The state today makes its own decision to privatise the company, determines the terms and conditions of sales and price. The social program, if signed, the new employer doesn't respect it. So far, the most common first condition for the transformation of businesses has been the layoff of workers, with often minimal compensation. The result of such a policy is about a million unemployed workers, and 300,000 new unemployed workers, which has put their existence at risk, as well as the existence of their families. These are important and crucial issues of workers. Addressing these issues will create conditions for a peaceful settlement of work disputes. Therefore, the peaceful resolution of labour disputes as a system that seeks, deserves support, but above all to create conditions that it can be revived, and they can only be created by passing labour laws, that is, by amending this existing "disasterous" labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8303	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic, and let Nikola Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two draft laws, and this: a bill on the socio-economic council and a draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, deal primarily with unions, workers, relations with the employer, while it is unwarranted in the bill, the most economically impressive category of the population, which is "unemployed", which today in Serbia, unfortunately, is about a million. What to do today in a country where there are more and more unemployed every day?- I'm sorry. Trade unions deal with irrelevant issues, and workers protest almost every day in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or in front of individual ministries or in front of the Commercial Court building! This was, of course, preceded by the famous Labour and Privatisation Act, which was implemented in most companies by regulations. Just see how many of these controversial privatisations are in front of domestic courts or before the Committee on Privatisation of the Serbian Parliament and you will understand everything. What do you expect from the state where the factories were sold for three euros, where former officials were throwing hundreds of thousands of euros out of their Sessel accounts?- I'm sorry. In my discussion, I will mainly deal with the proposal for a bill on the establishment of a socio-economic council. Today, the government is forming a semi-party council, composed of its representatives, from union representatives and employers' representatives, to discuss issues of importance for the achievement of what is said in the bill, economic and social freedoms and human rights. Among other things, it is mentioned in Article 3, in addition to concerns about the social and economic situation of employees and employers, the council should deal with the problem, imagine, publishing magazines, development of democracy and the like. And that's how it goes, when it's supposed to be announced in a statement ahead of some election or when it's supposed to cloud the situation in Serbia before some law is passed by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of social policy, which does not primarily correspond to the labour force or the wider population of Serbia. Article 9 of the bill provides for a consensus to take the positions the council provides to the government. The start set up a scenario for mutual blackmailing council members, and knowing the fundamental differences there are, above all, between the unions themselves, and only between unions and employers' representatives, it can be seen how quickly the Council's views will be brought into line. This law wouldn't be what it is if they didn't have to be mentioned here, in Article 11, so-called. NGOs, to hear their opinion - as it seems that the shadow power centers in our country must also have interference in this council. When it comes to financing councils, the situation is rather vague, because in Article 24. The bill, in part of the joint provision, only says that funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget and for the work of the local council in the budget of local self-government. For 2005, as we can see, 15 million dinars were allocated from the budget, plus funds from the local self-government budget. If it is taken into account that the chair is in charge, which is explained in Article 12, that he concludes legal affairs, the question is what kind of, that he has the means in the name and at the expense of this council, the question is who controls the spending of these funds?- I'm sorry. If the same benefits are transferred to local councils, there will be a large amount of money to be spent on fostering union local leaders. In a translated sense, nearly one budget of a mediocre local self-government will be spent on supporting such advice. Six representatives of the government are listed here, and these are probably already employees of the government of the Republic of Serbia, six union representatives, and they are also likely to be employees of their union organisations or their businesses and ultimately six employers, who are likely to be so situationed that they do not need any compensation for the work. A secretariat with job systematicisation is also mentioned, suggesting that a mini-civil apparatus, similar to the ministry agencies, is slowly formed here. It has been noted that every bill found in the procedure is immediately defended by the words that in the European Union, Denmark, Belgium, France, it is only forgotten that the situation in the economy at the time of the formation of similar councils was not the same as with us. This is about something else, after all. This is about keeping a union representative under control. It also opens up the possibility of manipulating the budgeted funds, and if there is still some concern that NGOs are being introduced into the work of the council at a small door, there is room for doubt. Article 5 mentions a provision that will be difficult to implement in practice, which reads: "Representatives of trade unions and employers are determined in proportion to the number of members". There will never be a real picture in the field on this issue. Who's going to confirm the relevance of all access to any union? So many counterfeits have been committed and even in the election process, the signatures have been forged, so why not forge workers' accessions as well. They didn't have a number of workers to join a union without having a clue about it. This can't stand as a real method for the distribution of the number of members of the council. Many parties in Serbia today boast that they have several hundred thousand members, and after elections, only five-six thousand people vote for them. That's the way it is with unions. Who will determine who the employers are, if it is said in Article 5 that representatives of trade unions and employers are determined in proportion to the number of members? Is that where many "new-business" buyers of social capital can qualify for the bagatella? That there won't be a number of members to put together famous industrialists who are darkening locks and chains across Serbia? What is this criterion for determining the right of an employer to take his place on the council? On the other hand, many union representatives know that before the elections they totally politicise their union by calling on workers to vote for a particular political option; an option that makes up for their benefits and privileges later, one of which has also denied an idea in the developed system of trade union organisation in the world, and with us can be detached and changed the very essence and purpose of the council. At the local level, this political lobbying is even more pronounced and will only be put under the control of local authorities by forming local councils and union leaders. Also, one thing gets out of sight, the unemployed are nowhere here, for them no place in this council is foreseen. There is no indication of who the local councils refer to as their observations, or their conclusions. Is it local self-government, is it a council in Belgrade, is it a competent ministry or government? All in all, such advice should be formed, but in a country with a healthy economic system where the power of law rules, not the power of corruption, justice and citizens' rights. I get the impression that the council has the role of amortising the dissatisfaction of a wide-ranging population, primarily workers and peasants towards the Serbian government, although I find it difficult to find in this council someone who will represent the interests of farmers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8305	The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let Ivan Radic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8306	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, my ladies of the People's Parliament and the gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to keep your attention briefly only on the proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, because from the experience of these 10 months in the work of the Committee on Privatisation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia we have just come to the conclusion that a law like this is missing. I think the law is nice and it should give him a chance. Of course, there are things we could talk about, if it's possible to regulate better, but I think it's our job to send out a positive signal to the citizens of Serbia and to the difficult situation in which the whole country is. I wouldn't single out the unemployed individually, because employees aren't in any easy situation either. But what exists on the ground and what we face every day is, one bit of concern, one scarcity, and under the influence of various, I could also say unions, former managers, etc. So people who stand against the entire privatisation system, in the end, and the lives that live and cause this terrible negative effect. This law is trying, and it is absolutely certain that the intention is good, that this opposition, that this bitterness and acuity decreases, that tensions calm down, and that in one other way it tries to resolve the conflict peacefully, at any level. Of course, conflicts exist. Conflicts exist, above all, in the minds of Serbian citizens. In our conversation with people, we see that they speak in an undifferentiated three-name manner. They speak, on the one hand, as workers and self-controllers, which is the legacy we should be free of as soon as possible, at the same time thinking in a martial and political way, while at the same time speaking as small shareholders and owners. So, this confusion with this law, in the procedures of calming down, is certainly going to differentiate, so we're going to talk either as workers, or as trade unions, or as small shareholders. To solve a problem isn't that simple. I'll tell you just one example, and that's an example from practice, about solving conflicts, when brothers and sisters argue over "orange," I promised to say it, arguing and stalling who needs it more. In that fierce fight, Mom, who puts on an orange, takes a knife, cuts in half, and each one takes one half. Problem solved. It's not a problem solved. When they talked about that orange during the day or two, it turned out that the sister wanted to make a crust, and the brother wanted to have a soda. If they had talked, if they had listened, if they had talked, then the real problem would have been solved. I'm afraid, as a consequence of these different discussions and this law will be understood as a foreign body, and it should be given a chance. I was delighted with the sentence he said, the other day on TV, one of the leaders of the Beopetrol Union who said in that dispute with Lukoil -- no, we're not gonna strike, we think it's better to negotiate for 7 and 77 days, negotiate, but also one hour strike. That's exactly the idea of this law -- let's talk, but so we listen to ourselves and try to solve that part of the problem, which is huge and regarding working-legal relations, because the profession and choice of profession, employment, that part of the work-law part of life is one half of life, considering that the other half is private life or family. The G17 plus idea of this law will absolutely support and on its part will try, as much as it is in our power and individually and as political parties, to give it a chance to survive and to do everything we can to be those who try to calm these passions and to solve problems in an agreed, peaceful way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8307	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word, and let Tomislav Penezic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin with the position of a large number of colleagues from different parliamentary groups, that, before these two draft laws, we should have considered the Labour Law, as a basic law in the field of labour legislation, as a law with which all other laws in the field of labour and social legislation should be complied with, but we are used to this government to going in opposite steps, inverted steps, so this did not surprise us. As far as the proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council is concerned, two issues are essential here. First, a large group of Serbian citizens has been bypassed, and these are unemployed. That's what the SRS insists on. We have over a million people in Serbia today, not to say maybe close to two million unemployed people! In his opening statement, the minister said that it is not common in world practice for such councils to include unemployed persons, that they should be participated by employers, government representatives and representatives of representative unions. But in modern European countries, there is not such a rate of unemployment, as is the case with us, with the trend of growth, so this group of Serbian citizens should have participated in the work of the socio-economic council. Perhaps it is a problem to find an appropriate modus how to determine the representatives of that group of people for participation in this council, but we are convinced that there were opportunities to resolve that too. The second fundamental question is, when the situation is already as it is, what is the economic justification of forming such a council, which has already been provided with the 2004 budget of four million dinars and 15 million dinars for 2005. One illogicality, in this council of 18 members, according to the government's proposal, each member has his own deputy. So this is one of the few organs and bodies where each member has its own deputy. I assume that each member and deputy will have a certain fee for working on that council, so that the question of the economic justification of forming such a council is raised. Furthermore, Article 9 sets out the competences of this Council. It's just amazing how wide a leprechaun there is, how general these powers are. Practically, this council has the competences of some mini government, and even, among other things, not to list everything, it is also said in the field of protection of the working and environmental environment, education and professional training, health and social protection and security, demographic movements in society, etc. I get the impression, after all these tips, the agencies, and who knows what bodies, that the government is slowly transferring responsibility from itself to other bodies, to other organs, and therefore wants to transfer its inability to others. Also, what is another thoughtless gesture of the promoter is that this advice makes a consensus. I don't think there's any need to remind the minister how hard it is to force employers and workers, about government representatives, more or less, they're some bond, how hard it is to get them to agree on some things. It is even harder when the law stipulates that all decisions must be made by consensus. In his presentation, the minister has already made a withdrawal when it comes to it and says, paraphrasing now - we know that this advice will be very difficult to agree on some things, but at least we will know who is to blame for not making a decision or for not coming out with some opinion. What good do we have from knowing who's to blame? We're supposed to make sure that problems are solved, not any side of it, and say that they're guilty, and we had a good will, but what's worth it, they didn't make a deal. The second thing, according to the SRS proposal, is one amendment that we propose that this decision council be made by a two-thirds majority, which, among other things, would prevent the excessive appetites of individual representatives, whether the union, whether the employer's representative and the government's proposal, essentially, would be controlled by both trade unions and employers, and that it balances as much between them and prevents the rise of tensions. Also, a failure of a purely legal nature, therefore, to give an opinion after considering the draft laws and other regulations of importance for the socio-economic position of employees to be forwarded to the minister, has a 30-day deadline to respond to that opinion. If the minister does not respond, the opinion is forwarded to the government and puts an end to it. So the government doesn't have to answer that question. We believe that the government should be obliged to respond to the opinion of this council. A lot of failures have this bill, and given that there is little time, I will say just one more thing, and that is what has particularly bothered me, namely, these are the objectives for forming this council, where, among other things, Article 3 says that one of the objectives for forming this council, the development of democracy and publishing of magazines, publications, brochures, etc. It bothers me that in any bill of law, any form of body, the government has indicated that it is only going towards one goal, towards the development of democracy. I guess we're a society with a regulated internal democracy, so there's no need to stress specifically, and publishing activity can also not be the goal of any advice, but it can only be done in accordance with financial opportunities. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8309	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic, and let Miroslav Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything in life has actually been arranged for a cause and effect, so I believe that these two laws, which you have heard several times, are the law on the socio-economic council and the law on peaceful work dispute resolution, are also due to one cause, or the adoption of a bad labour law, which came into force in 2001. This law, a little figuratively speaking, is, in fact, to bend the verses of His Lordship, "a glass of bile still no one drinks, which is a little honey not sweetened." The glass of bile is, in fact, the law that the workers drink, the citizens of Serbia, and this little honey tries to interfere with these laws that will not have any positive fact. It would be good, I'm glad Mr. Minister announced that the law is coming soon, the new labour law. I'm often asked by citizens on the street, what about the labour law, whether it's going to be, and I didn't know what to tell them, but now I'm glad I can answer them that it will be. This could have waited for that law, so if there's a breach in it, and no law is perfect, then some of them will be added to these two laws. I'm saying, no law is perfect, only God's law is perfect, but in order not to pass as a former minister of education, I'm going to say natural law. The labour law (so I will return to this) is necessary as soon as possible, (not to talk about this) because the SRS finds these laws excessive, if you take into account as many amendments as we have submitted, and these amendments have been submitted by our issuers. I am proud that the SRS has so many lawyers that I do not suffer, that I enter into details, to explain, because there are also at the top of that group, excellent, and there is one who is the best among us, and also among you, and that is Dr Vojislav Seselj as a lawyer and as a man. We're against some items in this law. We do not agree with agencies, councils, peacemakers, arbitrationists, and in particular the construction is constantly being imposed, that is, the word "non-governmental organisations". Where did they come from? They're about to start sneaking into our homes, telling us what to do, how to eat, how to hold a fork and how to knife. So I think these NGOs can carry another object, be like a government, be ruled by the government, and carry these other items. The assembly majority will probably pass these two laws. Time won't let me quote anything, but I'll finish and it'll be settled with the amendments. Please, just let me tell you that if the assembly majority adopts these laws, let them make an effort to accept the amendments of the SRS, because they are not bad. I'll end up with one suspicion, anecdotic. They say, when the "hodja has lost the watch", here I owe an explanation, because I used one side of the word, I mean the chess, because that's the word from the newly formed language in our spaces, so I'll translate it to you, it's the timer, so I'll say further in the text that you would understand, means that he lost the timer and said, "If Brother Musliman finds it, bring it to the mosque, if the brother of the Croat finds it, bring it to the mosque, and if the Serb brother finds it, I say this for nothing." So don't let us speak Serbian radicals for nothing. At least adopt the amendments we've submitted, so that at least that law will be a little better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8311	The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Zivkovic, and let Branislav Stevanovic be prepared. You gave up? The word has the People's MP Branislav Stevanović, and let Verica Radeta be prepared, pardon me, Milan Stanimirovic, excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8312	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that I have very little time in front of the SRS parliamentary group, and we have two draft laws, a bill on the socio-economic council and a bill on the settlement of labour disputes by peaceful means, by workers and employers, I would refer more to the problems that are happening in Kolubara. This Dosovna power, it is known that thanks to the workers of the Colubara they came to power, and in 2001 they returned the workers of the Colubara by bringing this scandalous Labour Act. He'd have to correct all these illogicalities that you're proposing right now. I'm thinking of this peaceful work dispute settlement. I mean, I'm saying that this labour law, the employers, that you called the current directors of the company, actually, is more likely to be called the owners, and why would I say that? Because in the Labour Act we have five items where the employer, or director of the company, has the right to legally cancel each worker. I don't want to give examples, and that's said more than once yesterday, but I want to point out that this law, which was passed in 2001, gave great authority to company directors, who are now more political activists than professionals, act in such a way that they do more police or security work than they use their expertise. Why do I say that? I know the climate at Elektroprivred: if we take our biggest companies Obrenovac and Kolubara, there are "Svilajnac" and "Kostolac", believe it or not, I am sorry that the minister is not there to hear this, that it is necessary to change this labour law for the reason that most workers, most of them sure, say, maybe all of them in Serbia, on the basis of this law, going to work daily are terrified of their jobs. Not only are they terrified of being fired, but most of them who work for 20, 30 and more years in a single post are terrified of showing up whether the director will personally be able to transfer it to another job where simply a man can't fit in working for many years in a particular workplace. You here, this proposal on peaceful settlement of workers' work dispute, want to institutionally solve some accumulated problems that are happening in the country; I am a member of the Privatisation Committee, and here is one of the cases Mr. Novakovic has been saying. We were trying as a Committee to do something about it, to reconcile the private who bought the company and the workers who were at risk -- most of it got fired and believe that we failed. These newly-compromised privates act so arrogantly that it's amazing. That is why I would like to say that in this case, in individual dispute resolution, it really won't have anything to do, and especially peacemakers in collective cases, where workers are currently very difficult to live in Serbia, and a large number, unfortunately, almost a million people are out of work. I would also like to say that, for these two draft laws, in fact, it is required to be set aside from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 25 million dinars for the implementation of these laws. I think it's too much for this country. As far as this socio-economic council is concerned, I would also like to say that these funds that stand out for these 18, as I would call, freelenders, I think it would be much smarter if these funds were allocated to 18 extra-party, very professional economists who would try for this society and this country to create a social programme and thus help to get the state out of a difficult situation. So much, since we have very little time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8313	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, and let Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8314	Mr. President, dear fellow Members of the People, there have been a lot of objections to the Labour Act here and more minority talk about the Labour Act and the needs of its amendment than these two draft laws. We also heard from Mr. Minister that it was in preparation to amend and supplement the Labour Act, so it might have been more logical if the minister wanted and had the majority to amend the Labour Act, to find it on the agenda, first amend and supplement the Labour Act, and then to discuss the draft law on socio-economic council and the draft law on peaceful settlement of work disputes. I, among other things, have submitted one amendment, as in Article 153. The labour law dictates one of these laws that we need to pass in the voting day. Of course, we're not about to change the Labour Act. We are not for many reasons, and the basic reason is that investors who are necessary to this country and our established economy simply will not come and invest in that state where they do not have a law on work that is similar to the laws in their countries. Of course, over half a century of life in socialism has left its mark. I said in my own time, saying in this assembly when the Labour Act was passed, that the original people's saying of this people said, "Who does not fear hunger," and that in half a century we invented, "They can't pay me as little as I can do"; "But I love this regime, pay goes and I'm lying," "Teach the school so you don't have to work"; "Radio doesn't work, play you radio"; "Who likes to work, work on his head" etc. and so on. It's about some of the remains of the previous system that we've been living in, that we have to deal with. In some Western European countries, because we are still building something called capitalism now over and over again, there is no term "unemployed". Either you're a worker or you get fired. So this law is not directed against workers, but against those who are used to getting paid, and that nothing or very little do and contribute to the collective in which they are employed. Let's get back to the proposal of these two laws. In line with the national and national seriousness with which we approach every law and European orientation of the DS, we will support these two laws, because we believe they are definitely necessary. All social dialogue actors should accept the basic values of modern social systems, which are: private property incomparability, market economy, the existence of social protection instruments, human rights, democratic electoral system and the like. The conclusion of the social agreement at national level sets itself as an imperative for the calming of social tensions and peaceful implementation of transition processes, in which each of the social partners has its own expressed role and interests and which together form a set of measures for the transition of society from underdeveloped or medium-developed to a development phase. So we need a consensus where we want as a society all together to go. We need that minimum social agreement so we can get our economy back from the ashes as a phoenix. We need to know that in the last decade, and I often repeat that we are aware of how much our economy has failed, that from 29 billion dollars of gross national product in the 1990s, in 2000 we were on only ten billion dollars of gross national product and that this is an unrecorded decline in gross national product in economic history. We need a deal, we need a consensus, an agreement of all those who want the progress of this country, this society and our economy. The countries of Western democracies where social dialogue is considered one of the basic levers of the political and economic system have far removed in implementing its most advanced form, which is to control the implementation of signed social agreements and the search for increasingly modern and comprehensive forms of social dialogue. Both France and Germany and Denmark and other countries are far away to compare with them. Also from countries in transition that we could compare ourselves with, and they're somewhat further away from us, but the results are still not satisfactory, so we might be able to apply Ireland's experience -- where all the social factors have reached a consensus where society wants to go and have become a full-time society today and a great growth in gross national product. It represents one principle of decision-making by consensus, unanimity, which is promoted in this law, all social partners, although not binding, represent one of the basic principles of social dialogue. There are countries where this principle has not been fully adopted, so as an alternative solution, it also foresees decision-making by majority of votes, but the question is what is the contractual obligation then, even more real will of the social dialogue participant in implementing a decision with which the proposal was not agreed or voted on in the decision-making process. What are these goals that should be achieved if these social-economic councils are formed, according to this bill? These are: setting up and achieving democratic dialogue three social factors on important social and economic issues; monitoring and giving opinions and proposing appropriate solutions to protect labour and social rights in the privatisation process in the field of labour law and other rules governing the material and social situation of employees and employers. There is the launch of joint initiatives to change existing and adopt new legislative and sublegal acts before the competent authorities, to provide guidelines for work-social policy in the transition process, to monitor, to assess and to give an opinion on the impact of changes in prices and wages on the position of employees and employers, then to inform each other about important issues on which social partners take common positions. There is – encouraging social dialogue at local level and within business frameworks. As regards the third participant of the social dialogue – the government, the close parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament, which supports this proposal, contributes to the destabilising of social dialogue, which is manifested through the different relationship between the social partners in the union's ranks towards it, to the need to conclude a national and social agreement on the minimum of uncontested interests on issues where there is a common consensus on how to resolve, so that it will oblige all future social partners in the time in which it is concluded, regardless of political and other circumstances. So we need to find that minimum national consensus on these issues. The most important problems in establishing social dialogue in Serbia can be expressed in difficulties in matured awareness of the importance of social dialogue, as one of the basic instruments of transformation of the economic and socio-economic system, the problem of the legitimacy of social dialogue actors. Several amendments have been tabled in this regard, meaning on the representativeness of the employers' association and union association. There is also a lack of clearly defined agreement on the role and tasks of each partner in the social dialogue. So we need a national consensus on all these issues. Furthermore, determining the representativeness of management organisations is also a significant problem, although the Labour Act, as well as the union, has set criteria for determining these properties. At the time of self-government socio-economic planning and social property, there was no concept of "employee", but the organisations of joint work were members of the chambers of commerce and that is, on the principle of obligation. Since social dialogue was not implemented, chambers of commerce played a role in communication between the authorities and the management of joint working organisations. The adoption of the company law meant reforming the organisation and functioning of the economy, did not bring a lot of newspapers on this issue, so that the chambers of commerce, although modernised and transformed, continued to represent a dominant form of association between business entities. Today, we have another association of employers, but the issue of their representativeness is one of the outstanding issues for the normal functioning of this bill on the socio-economic council. The principles of social dialogue in developed European societies also included the principle of volunteering, i.e. voluntary access by the employer to their associations, and the membership of the chambers of business and the countries of Southeast Europe in economic and social councils was not seen favourably, precisely because of the absence of this principle, but criteria must be established on the basis of which it is determined whether any association of employers is representative. In any case, this bill on the socio-economic council is necessary. In this regard, I've made some amendments that I'm going to talk about in an individual debate, and I'm going to try to specify some of the members of this law. As for the proposal for a peaceful settlement of labour disputes, a whole series of laws here have been matured to meet before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and before the MPs. I had one situation in the local self-government - a farm, where workers wanted to strike and where a minimum process of work was to be prescribed, and the employer and workers could not agree on what is the necessary minimum of the work process, they came to this local self-government that it, under the existing Strike Act, prescribed what is the minimum of the work process. I don't think it's necessary in this way to do it and that the Strike Act should be found before us again, with changes and additions, to specify certain things. So that this area of labour law, which is one of the most important areas, is finally arranged to not only criticise the Labour Act, but to prevent its abuse by employers or anyone else. So, as a party with national and national seriousness, the Democratic Party will be in line with its European orientation to support these laws. Of course, we have submitted a series of amendments and we hope the minister will accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8315	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I listened carefully to Mr Albianic, the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, and specifically noted his words, which spoke about the bill on the socio-economic council, that this law would lead to an improvement in the socio-economic status of employees. Unfortunately, he didn't say it would lead to improvement. By reading this law carefully, several times, I have found nothing that leads to an improvement in the socio-economic status of employees. To believe Mr. Albianic's word, it's hardly possible. An analysis of individual members of the law, beginning with Article 2, where the socio-economic council is said to be an independent body that makes up six representatives of the government, six employers and six union representatives, we ask ourselves – what is it then independent of? Is it possible he's from the government, when he has six government representatives?- I'm sorry. Is it possible he's from the union, when he's got union representatives?- I'm sorry. Or is he perhaps independent of employers, who are also part of the council?- I'm sorry. He is probably independent only of those who need to improve the socio-economic position, from workers, and he will not take their will into account. Besides, who makes representative unions under this bill? One of these unions is ASNS, the famous association of free and independent unions. It was the president of the union, Milovanovic, while he was Minister of Labour and Employment, and in his time the union was the DOS's striker for the cause of unrest in working organisations and businesses in order to bring down the previous government, he proposed, he proposed and explained the Labour Law, which we all agree is a bad law and should be changed urgently. Can we talk to such union representatives about improving the socio-economic status of employees? Members of the 9th and 10th of this law say that the socio-economic council takes views on the issues it is considering and delivers them to the Government. A consensus – unity is needed to take views. It was not even in the Socialist Union of Workers established within the Communist Party, for pluralism within a party. So no one could come up with a common, unique attitude. If that were possible, it wouldn't even be necessary to set up such advice. Article 10 states that the socio-economic council is considering draft laws and other rules of importance for the economic and social situation of employees and employers and gives them opinions. And who has so far defended the unions or any association to consider billing and to give opinions to the government or anyone else. Furthermore, he says – unless the Ministry responds within 30 days or gives a negative answer to the proposals of this council, the Council can address the Government. What's that? What happens when he talks to the government? What is the government’s obligation to this counsel? Not at all! It's a waste of time and, of course, a waste of money. The basis for this law is said to have used the experience of some other countries in developing market economies. Yes, but in these countries it is a developed market economy. There, before that, a labour law was passed, as it should be, then, a law on pension and disability insurance, as it should be. That's where they solved the problem of the railroad law. There, as a state, they returned their debts to the citizens. This looks like something like a "heard frog where horses are bitching and she's got her foot up," so we're passing laws that are rash and unnecessary right now. As Toma Busetic said, I realized that the Socialists would not vote for these laws. But there's that famous cohabitation. Most have found another partner who seeks to deal with cohabitations to raise significantly more quality relationships, relations with marital obligations, etc. Just because of your cohabitation, Serbia is going back! Because of this cohabitation and the desire of the DSS and the ruling majority to attract DS and improve relations, to involve them in power, we have examples that you cannot collect the congregation majority in many units of local self-government; you cannot establish the authorities of local authorities, because you need DS because you are one. There is neither DSS nor DS, nor G17 plus – you are all a fraction of one sect together! In the end, I must agree with both Mr. Prophetic and Mr. Bosko Ristic. Mr. Ristic said that this government has lost its legitimacy, because in the local elections it won very few votes and that is correct. But I also agree with Prophetovic – and Tadic has no legitimacy, because he urged citizens to go to the elections and they did not go out. So, we're working with you, but what's the solution when the government and the president lose their legitimacy? Gentlemen, these are new choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8317	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Albianic, though I hope the replica is not on the first part of the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8318	It means the word to me, and I don't know where you are! G17 Plus is a responsible party, offering initiatives, proposals and concrete solutions to certain issues and problems. The G17 plus in its programme attaches a significant place to social dialogue, and in this sense it is really necessary to have talks and good strategic solutions between the government, employers and trade unions. G17 plus you always keep your promises and give your words. As for these personal matters and personal insults, I find it inappropriate to ask such questions here. I am a member of the Serbian Orthodox Church and I am a Orthodox, is it possible that such a topic should be set here for each other. I guess that's something we all need to respect each other, as well as the differences that exist with us. That's something we should be performing with in the next conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8319	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, at the end of the break, and before that, Bosko Ristic will address it at the beginning. [[After break - 16.05]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our afternoon session today. Before we begin, I ask that we determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find the Assembly has a quorum to work with. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and before that, a replica, Mr. Bosko Ristic. You gave up? Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8321	At the beginning of this debate, I must point out that there is no constitutional basis for these two laws in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter stated that the constitutional basis found in Article 72 paragraph 1 of point 12 that other relations of interest for the Republic of Serbia could be regulated by law, in accordance with the Constitution. It is one general formulation, but when it is said in accordance with the Constitution, then, above all, it is thought of those provisions concerning freedom, the rights and duties of man and citizen, so if the relationship was to be sought and to seek some constitutional basis then they had to be kept in mind the provisions of Articles 22, 35 and 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 22 for the equality of all citizens before the law, and Articles 35 and 38 as two members mentioning the word "collective contract". Let's go in order, since it's obvious that the objection to the lack of constitutional basis will be little of an impact on this debate and the adoption of these laws. With this first law, on the socio-economic council, the proposing asks the National Assembly to arrange something that is an internal matter of the government. Namely, they believe they should raise an economic and social council to the level of an institution that would have an advisory character to simply deliver opinions and propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia. If this is primarily the function of this socio-economic council, then you could arrange it with the government law, which is also at this session. Earlier, this was arranged by the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there were some advice that helped the government to address some very important issues, and related to law enforcement and the government's function to propose laws. This view cannot be corrected by any provision - that the socio-economic council has the property of a legal person, because if it is a legal person it should be the bearer of rights and obligations that it can effectively meet and fulfil its obligations. However, this socio-economic council does not do administrative work. The advisory body which has been raised to the level of legislative regulation and does indeed act as a strange provision of Article 12(4). – the chair of the socio-economic council represents the socio-economic council, concludes legal affairs, has funds on behalf and on behalf of the account, etc. Completely unnecessary provisions from the domain of the way the political will of the executive government is formulated. How the political will to formulate the executive power is covered by provisions on the competencies of the Republic of Serbia, which leads to internal policy, it enforces the laws. He should probably have contacts with the unions and with all other interested entities, but not at the level of the law, but at the level of politics. As for the second law, on the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, I must point out that there is an impression that the legislator of this law does not know that there is a Labour Act. I'd just like to list some of the provisions that the proposer didn't have in mind. First, I would like to specify the provision of the tenth chapter, which is called – The exercise and protection of the rights of employees, Article 120. Who decides on the rights and obligations of the legal person, the entrepreneurs, then the protection of individual rights. The general act or contract of work may provide for a procedure for the contractual settlement of issues in question between the employer and the employee. Employees and employers may raise a question of dispute before arbitration. The composition of arbitration and arbitration proceedings shall be governed by a general act. When a general act is said, it is meant to be a general act of the employer. The arbitration decision is final and binding on both the employer and the employee, when it comes to the individual rights of the employee, and when it comes to collective agreements, it is a whole chapter from Article 131 to Article 155. Just to draw attention from the wrong concept, what everything should include a collective agreement -- we have a broad interpretation in our law that all areas should regulate by collective agreement. I used to say a long time ago that the basic thing of collective bargaining should be the lowest price of work. There is nothing else to negotiate about, because everything else in the labour status is areas that must be regulated by imperative regulations, especially by law: annual vacation, job protection, protection of rights, the way of design, termination of employment. There is no agreement, no bargaining, there is no possibility of anything else, but what is most important from the view of the general importance is to determine the lowest labour price that would be the basis for everything else and behind that would have to be the state, first of all, employers and trade unions. This is about how collective agreements are concluded, how disputes are resolved. For the resolution of disputes, Article 153. – issues in question solves arbitration, who are participants, etc. We have two completely unnecessary laws which, above all, aim to when someone does not want to enforce the law, and these are quite today, then all dissatisfied points to other addresses, not to the address of the one who enforces politics in this country, who enforces the laws. In this way, the Government has delegated an on-call culprit and in several places in these laws it is indicated that whoever did not participate in the negotiations, who did not participate in peaceful communication, we will inform the public, etc. After all, that this and the laws are not the best shows that there is no provision for punishments. When there's no provision for punishment, it's not a matter to be regulated by law. The labour law may need to be complemented by some provisions concerning collective bargaining. As far as the SRS is concerned, we represent a completely different concept of collective bargaining, and we recommend that the government withdraw these two draft laws, because there is no constitutional basis. The solutions are wrong. They're not meant to solve problems. No, because if they couldn't, as you say, social partners, it's pure demagogy, new expressions, threats with some recommendations and some other things that don't stand at all, that shouldn't be a reason for us to solve this and this way. This way of three-layered establishment of a place where these disputes should be resolved is tragic when it is seen that the government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to fulfil the obligations it has signed. In this way it all moves aside from being crowded in front of Germany, but to spread crowds across cities in the Republic of Serbia, that everyone is called, and besides reminding you of those provisions in the Labour Act on representative trade unions. They probably don't exist anymore because they had a limited fact. You probably forgot that. If you are already going to these two laws, and especially on the peaceful settlement of work disputes, then at least you could put aside the proper provisions of the Labour Act. This is how we have a conflict of provisions, and I have to tell you a sermon that disputes can only be settled peacefully this way. Absolutely not. Any dispute can be settled by agreement, and besides, why do we have courts if we have to pass laws like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8322	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8323	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, the DS Group feels it is necessary to pass these laws, feels it is necessary to introduce these new rights into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and also supports the adoption of the law on the socio-economic council and the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, but of course, at this point there are certain objections that will not be able to answer the question at this time how they will vote for these laws, because there are problems that are not, in our opinion, too. They primarily refer to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. As you know, in this session, we also had the Law on Prosecution, we have the law on public agencies, and we have no labour law, which means the provisions of the existing Labour Act apply. The Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes, unfortunately, the provisions it has undermines the Single Legal System, and if adopted, together with the Law on Parley Procedure and Public Agency Law, will put us in a position to have different ways of dealing with the same problems in different ways. The DS pointed out this in its amendments, which it submitted in relation to the law on public agencies. You can't treat agencies in different laws in different ways. We believe that if they adopt the law on public agencies and provisions of the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, they must be fully in line with the provisions of the law, which will be on the agenda in a few days. As far as the labour law is concerned, Article 153 provides a clear opinion on the peaceful settlement of disputes on collective agreements, in a different way than the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which is before us today. Of course, it is not disputed if peaceful resolution is spoken of in disputes that have already begun, they will certainly end up under the Labour Law. As far as the disputes that are yet to begin in a peaceful settlement are concerned, the question arises under which law they will be governed. There's also the DS tabled an amendment. I remind you of the most serious problem we face if we adopt the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which is the problem that concerns the opposite of this law with the provision provided for by the law on litigation. Article 30 and Article 37 of the Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes provides for the stay of court proceedings if a working dispute is brought before the court for the establishment of a certain right on a working basis. The law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes therefore provides for an institute which, if this assembly adopts a law on litigation, no longer exists. I will remind you, although I will not enter into details, because it was the subject of the debate during the debate in principle, but also in particular, the law on litigation, the law on litigation, now provides for a halting of proceedings. These are two completely different institutes that have a different relationship compared to deadlines and a different relationship with parties in the dispute. We believe that the total collapse of the single legal system, the non-compliance of the positive regulations found on this Parliament's agenda. I cannot say that the resolution ministries are directly responsible, but it is quite certain that the legislator or government in general should agree with each other on the agenda of the Republic Parliament, because it is inexplicable for each of us individually, but also for all of us as the most legislators, it is unacceptable that in the same voting day we pass laws that are mutually contrary to each other. This would certainly entail further proceedings that would challenge individual laws and seek their alignment. Therefore, it is the proposal by the DS that Mr. Minister, MPs, the President of the National Assembly, should consider the objections made by the DS behind this speaker, which she made on the committees that were also during today's session of the Serbian Parliament and that we are not doing each other a bear service. Of course, we support the adoption of laws on socio-economic councils and, of course, we believe that the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes is a law that is broadly in line with the views of the International Labour Organisation, that these are the rights that are needed in our legal system and that it will greatly improve certain things. Given the facts that I've pointed out, under the circumstances that I assume you're all aware of, I don't think we should let these miss this parliament legalize.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8324	Anyone else want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8325	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we held a session of the Legislative Committee, and the subject was the minister's proposal to implement the legal and technical redistribution of the law. We haven't received a report from that committee yet, so you can get to know the legally impossible solutions that exist in this law. I have responded to the Legislative Committee, because I do not think it is possible at this stage of the procedure for the minister to submit an amendment and thus correct the bill. The inability of legal solutions is seen precisely in Article 30 and Article 37, as the institutes which are either not in agreement with the draft law proposed by the Government are envisaged, I mean the law on litigation, or it is not possible to amend the bill by amendment until the law has previously been passed with a different legal solution, which has a change in this law for the conjunction. That's why I expect a report from the Legislative Committee, from a session held at 13.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8326	This is a principled search, and you have misused your rights. You didn't have the basis to answer, because this is a principle search. I give my word to the MP and to the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8327	First, on both grounds, replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is evident in the fact that the previous speaker could not have received the word because there was no basis for it. When he had already received his word and said what he had said, he spoke as a member of the Legislative Committee. Firstly, it is not good to inform MPs about what the meeting of the Legislative Committee was and what was on the agenda. On the agenda was a proposal from the resolution ministry to carry out a legal-technical editorial of the text, to bring the terms in line, by replacing the term "restricting the procedure" with the term "stopping the procedure". This was done because the bill, as Mrs Stojacic said, did not bring the terminology into line with the law on litigation. However, the Legislative Committee has not concluded anything. There is no report, nor will you receive any report as MPs, because simply, the Legislative Committee has not spoken out on this matter. What is concluded, which will not be in the report, and what I now have to say orally because Mr. Ristic has misinformed the National Assembly, is that we will do what is necessary to obtain or propose by the ministry, in the form of a certain amendment, which obviously will not be possible, or we will have to, after the adoption of these laws, then implement the legal-technical editorial of the text. What's she made up of? It is simply that there will no longer exist at the time of the adoption of the law on litigation and the term to be applied in the future, which is the legal and technical editorial of the text, will be the one that corresponds to the new institute and the law on litigation. In this case, it will most likely be an end to the proceedings. This does not depend on the Registrar, it depends precisely on this assembly and the competent committee of the Assembly, which is the Legislative Committee. So it will be possible to agree at this point whether there is room or no legal-technical editorial.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8328	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I conclude a principle search under the proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council and a proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Social-Economy Council(s) you have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Milan Stanimirović, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Todorovic, Sreto Perić, Branislav Rankić, Momir Marković, Dragan Colić, Darko Glisic, Stevica Dedjanski, Stefan Zankov, Milivoje Vukovic, Milan Veselinović and Zoran Antic. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search under which the proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard from the MPs of the SRS our general position that we believe this law should never have been found today on the agenda. Instead, we should have discussed the labour law, because that's what could possibly improve the situation in this area. As far as the socio-economic council law is concerned, our basic objection is precisely that, in the economic council, or government as a proponent of this law, it did not provide for the unemployed. In fact, Article 2 of which I submitted the amendment states that the socio-economic council is an independent body that forms: representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; representatives of representative associations, there are employers; as well as representatives of representative unions. We of the SRS think that if such advice is to be formed and this law is to be passed, then it is necessary for the Council to be representatives of the unemployed. It is unacceptable that the government has established that this amendment is not accepted, because we cannot measure ourselves with the countries listed in this government's rejection of the amendment, because these countries are more developed and there are no million unemployed in these countries as we do, and unfortunately every day is more and more unemployed. This is where the minister spoke of the preparation of the labour law, that we would be discussing the law soon, he was talking about some public debate. I see we have some letters from the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce, people are very angry that the government has not consulted them on these laws, and we have a letter from the Union of Employers of Serbia. I really thought that at least they were consulted, since it is predicted that the socio-economic council will also have representative employers' associations. It seems, however, that the government thinks that the representative association of employers is that of industrialist Bogoljub Karic, who has nothing to do with industry, he is a banker, and why is he in this association - I don't know. It seems he will be the one to give representatives to this economic and social council. We have a particularly interesting question when it comes to the Labour Act, about what has never been voted in this assembly, because a MP voted from Thessaloniki on a remote control. We asked the question then, and now, what does that representative union mean? Who is it that determines the representativeness - is your representative union at this point the Independence Union, and is that why, Branislav Canak, the president of the union planning for the chairman of the National Employment Agency Management Board? You, through these unions, representive, who are as representative as they support the government, ignore real problems! I don't know if you know, Minister, how much trouble there is in small businesses, I mean Serbia. Do you know of a company called "Progress" from Rakovica, which has 50 employees, is involved in textile production, is 60 years old, privatized last year, and these days they have received a solution to the destruction of the facility, to take away that plot. And they bought it in time for 99 years, but now, the great Belgrade tycoon, Mr. Mayor sold that land of theirs and, of course, those people will stay on the street! A similar problem is the Impa Zemun, where 80 workers wait to be fired every day, come to work every day, 16 months don't get paid! They're small companies with few people, they can't block traffic, they can't endanger government. Somebody doesn't care, even if they're going to strike hunger, they might as well die, as far as the government is concerned, obviously, those small companies are not being taken care of. You don't even talk about big ones, but at least some kind of media atmosphere is being created when hundreds or thousands of people come out, and this kid is not being taken care of, and obviously, neither will these laws contribute. One more sentence to say, I see I've timed out, I apologize to Mr. Chairman, it's about the minister's comment when my colleague talked about the problems in Bora, so he said there's no pay for contributions, that it's some legacy from the past, or from the last 15 years. And just to tell you that these people, from the said enterprise in Rakovica, are not paid self-dependence on pensions since 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8330	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8331	I'll try to help the MPs understand that we don't need a law like this. I will take the opportunity, given that an amendment to Article 2(1) has been tabled, but before I go to the amendment, I must remind you that Article 1 states that this law "is designed to set up, register, work and way of work, finance and other issues relevant to the work of the socio-economic council". If anyone thinks that the socio-economic council here is given in one - a mistake, because it's given in plural. However, what the proposer should not allow himself is that he cannot "impose" an executive AP and an executive body of local self-government. More rightly said - local self-government, because local self-government is not a government, it must be potentiated, but here you order them to form the socio-economic council of the province and local level. You do not have that right, a team before, that from Article 1 of all the provisions of this law cannot clearly conclude what is the status role of the socio-economic council. Is he a para-state body, is it a state body, is it an advisory body?- I'm sorry. You just said that it was a legal person, that it had its own chairman who had the resources and gave some opinions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to some logic, these in a lower form of organisation give their opinions to the executive of the province and to the executive body of the unit of local self-government. You have entered this law into something concerning the inviolability of local self-management in the Republic of Serbia, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. You are pushing local self-management, which has authority in terms of development of the city, urban traffic, suburban traffic, plumbing, sewerage, to address socio-economic issues that are fully in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I said at first, this is all "unconstitutional" what you do. You are here, using these modern NGOs flossules by social partners, social dialogue and what goes along with it, adopting this new terminology you forgot one thing about the state bearing its responsibility. The State is responsible, i.e. the government is responsible under the Constitution and the laws. She can't get divorced by any law. With this amendment, we wanted to draw your attention that social partners are not just on these sides. You're still suffering from that active social policy, that the best social policy is when the most people are employed and working. Your problem is that millions of people don't work! Your problem is that nothing's even going to start in the perspective! Your problem is that you've passed the Banking Act, which is a new form of privatisation of all these social firms in one accelerated procedure through licensed bankruptcy managers. You are aware that a social problem is opening up, but your partners for social and economic issues are not in these relations. The representative union, I won't remind you of the Labour Act, where you have 7.8 provisions that you're trying to define what a representative union is. I don't want to remind you who might be the employer, but I have to tell you that the socially endangered are located outside these categories of negotiators. Let me remind you of something: once upon a time in this country there were resolutions on socio-economic development, where at the end of the year some economic policy was agreed. You are now entering something that is economic policy and which is exclusively the right of the Government of the Republic of Serbia alone. You're spreading the number of people who might in some way influence, and you're spreading so much, you're even going to local self-government. You're even going to local self-government, like these unions and these local employers are going to do something to fix the social situation. That's what every president will tell you that this is impossible what you're doing. This law has no constitutional basis, what is pure politics you end it at a political level, but don't make institutions, because these institutions don't solve problems, you'll go to the wrong address to direct people who aren't satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8332	On the same amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, defeating the fact that four years after alleged reforms and a transition in which the previous DOS government reportedly began to introduce us, promoting laws that are harmonised, harmonised with EU laws, and continued by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the number of unemployed is rising from month to month from year to year in Serbia!- I'm sorry. A month ago, when we had a budget rebalance, Mladjan Dinkic said one incorrect fact -- that during this year, 23,000 people found employment?- I'm sorry. It is possible, if these are people who have not been registered with their employer, and are now employed in such a way, because as far as I know, it is well known to you and to the general public, no new workplace in this country is open! On the contrary, in all cities and in all municipalities in Serbia where there was such a volume of production and employment of workers, workers were out of work, production is becoming less and less. It was going to sell out factories for a reason, to keep the workers out of the streets without an adequate social programme. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this because of the importance of Mrs. Vervain Radete's amendment. I would understand you (and you who chat and talk about who knows what, don't listen to what I'm telling you, and it's very important) that you don't accept the Verice Radete amendment, if you go out and say, you know, we've been in power for nine months now, and these predecessors that we faithfully follow, we have the same intensities, they've hired a few hundred thousand people -- Boris Tadic promised to hire right away I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of people, now he's nowhere. It usually falls into the ground, and when it comes up and it comes out and raises its head out of the sand, it invites Serbs to the occupation elections. Ms. Radeta, as a responsible MP, a politician, as a Serbian radical, suggests that you include in the advice of those who are today the most vulnerable. Everyone is at risk: pensioners, children, students, and workers who work, and do not receive salaries, and strikers, but are the most vulnerable, besides children who expect their parents to enable them to exist, unemployed. Mr. Slobodan Lalović, Minister of Labour and Employment, has the information that is published by the Republic Bureau of Statistics and which is obtained through the records of people at the Bureau, i.e. the employment service, how many, today, looking for work, various qualifications, which are those who have lost their jobs, which those who have never had the opportunity to work somewhere. However, Mr. Lalovic knows that this information is not true and that unfortunately this number is much higher, perhaps even for several hundred thousand, because the research done by experts in the area say when it comes to looking for work and unemployment in our country that this number is much higher because not all of them are registered in this so-called, according to legislation voted by predecessors in this assembly, job-seeking clubs. One of such clubs, as the legislator called it, and lawmakers voted, opened in Kragujevac in a pre-election campaign ahead of local elections. Minister Lalovic, along with one of the candidates, did not win the Kragujevac City elections, opened a job-seeking club, to make cynicism even bigger. Unfortunately, such a club in Kragujevac covers 40,000 unemployed. In Serbia, over a million unemployed, a million and a hundred, maybe two hundred thousand, because I'm telling you that not all people for various reasons are registered at the unemployment service. That is why it is very important, because it is so defeating the number of those who are looking for a job to accept this amendment proposed by your colleague, Verica Radeta - that people who are jobless, and not only unions that she asks to be deleted representatively, as well as employers' associations, (because who is to assess what is representative and what isn't) that those people who are most vulnerable, and who are over a million, are involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8334	National MP Bosko Ristic, and before that, according to Businessman Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8335	Mr. President, on the basis of Article 130. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would like to make a statement on the extension of the work until the end of the seventh item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8336	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. For 93, there was no, abstention one, not 33, out of 127 MPs. Thank you, we'll be working today until the end of the 7th agenda. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ristic. Excuse me, Mr. Ristic. Mrs. Verica Radeta has reached her office, please. I apologize for stopping you twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8337	There were obviously no 127 MPs who participated in the vote. It's obvious that you didn't even determine the quorum before the vote and I'm asking, since I doubt the data in this electronic list, that according to the Rules of Procedure, to be voted by the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8338	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Excuse me, are you asking me to call it in? Yeah. ) Please, on the basis of Article 82(7), I ask the professional service to count whether there is a quorum at this time. Is there a quorum now, please. Is that what you're looking for? Here you go. I ask the professional service to count the MPs. (A number of MPs leaving the O.R.) I thank you. So there are 132 MPs present. We're going back to work. Please, according to the amendment, MP Bosko Ristic. No, please, it was doubtful to read to you once again: "If the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of the quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system, the president shall put into account the computer copy of the members of parliament present." The following position: If the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the quorum identified by the count of MPs, he may request that the quorum be determined by calling the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search." We voted. There are doubts as to whether the electronic system was operational. We checked, he was in office -- 132 MPs are present. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8339	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Minister, here, I wanted to honor the proposal from a colleague who suggested that the quorum be determined and that the vote be carried out by a personal statement. As far as the proposal for a bill on the social-economic council, Article 2, which states that the socio-economic council... (A number of MPs returning to the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8340	Please continue, it's not correct for the speaker, I'm sorry, Mr. Ristic. I'll give you your time back. Please don't react. There's no reason for that. MPs come in and out of the O.R. throughout the session, and that's no reason to interfere with the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Ristic. I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8341	So I believe that the bill on the socio-economic council is inappropriate and that there are no solutions that guarantee essential independence and independence of this, as the law calls itself, the bodies. The social - economic advice under this law is not defined by its concept. Whose organ is that? Whether it's the government's authority, the government's authority, the body of the Assembly, or the body of another body or branch of the government. If it is said to be an independent body, then it means that, by its composition and way of selecting members, independence in the functioning and conduct of all members must be guaranteed by law. According to the envisaged solutions, members of the socio-economic council, among other things, are appointed by the government. There's no way, no procedure. Here, it is further defined that this law has regulated the establishment, registration, work and mode of work, financing and other issues of importance for the work of the socio-economic council. Analyzing this bill, I couldn't figure out how the socio-economic council was financed. What are the resources to be used for the work of the socio-economic council? Who controls spending on the work of the socio-economic council? But it is therefore defined that socio-economic councils will also be educated for the territories of local self-government or autonomous territorial organisations. As part of these socio-economic councils, which are organised and educated for certain territories, local self-government is entered by trade unions registered to work on the territory. However, employers, or chambers, are not educated and are not established for local self-government territories. There are regional chambers of commerce representing employers, while local self-government territories are organised for the territory of cities, or municipalities. Thus, in practice, this law will not be able to remove doubts, i.e. conflicts of jurisdiction, or conflict of aspirations for individual factors to become members of socio-economic councils. The unions themselves, or union organisations, are not educated locally for each territory of local self-government. So, in this way, as the law predicted, it will not be possible to organise local councils. In addition, the relationship between the socio-economic council educated for the territory of the Republic of Serbia and these local socio-economic councils has not been defined. Therefore, I propose that the minister representing this bill draws the same from the procedure, because I believe that along with the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, an illogical relationship introduces into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The conflict of provisions proposed in the draft legislation on the agenda for the vote is introduced and will come to a vote together with the proposals of these two laws. For this reason, I think it would be best at the moment to have a social dialogue between the subjects, as defined here, but to be resolved in a completely different way – by a new law and by the consensus of the political parties that are participating in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8342	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Todorovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard all the legal reasons why we don't consider this text of the bill to be a law, but it can be one agreement, what once was solved by chambers, associations, social organisations at their consultations, and it can be the subject of this debate. So, taking certain views on certain issues, giving opinions, written publications, notifying to the professional public, can be of benefit when professionals do so. If we adopt this text of the bill in this assembly, we pass the law, the views of the council chosen in this way do not oblige anyone, no matter who represents him, from which structure, who these people will be, what their expertise, knowledge theoretically and practically is, but their views are practically just attitudes that are occupied on certain issues, which they inform the Government of. There's no coercion here, there's no sanctions, there's no need for this matter to be arranged. In this context, nothing would change the concept, as we have put it in the amendment proposal, to include an army of people waiting for work, especially in the context of this government's attempt to help businesses through the National Employment Service to be used through this agency in the area of creating opportunities for young educated people through traineeships through training. However, businesses are not in a position to take these funds to the amount the state gives, because they are inequitable, so they cannot take it, so the whole problem is that the Government is trying to solve these problems, i.e. to waste a lot of time looking at these problems, and there is no benefit from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8344	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8345	And with this amendment to Article 2(2), we want to help the Minister and the Government understand that they've caught up with the wrong business. It sounds really nice to say social partners, social dialogue, etc., those are words that promise a lot, but they only promise and they don't mean anything. Of course, we don't know who represents the most socially endangered category. If anyone thinks they're government representatives, these in this council, he's wrong. Those in front of the government in the socio-economic council represent the ruling coalition that is present in the government. Whether the ruling coalition has its own socio-economic programme is another issue. They probably have some. I'm not using the situation right now to compare it to this government, but any government that would inherit a law like this would find itself in wonder. With this amendment, we want to draw attention to the fact that something is wrong with these social partners. It's not right, because the rights of some people are decided by others. Probably the most vulnerable are those who receive social assistance, who are in a state of social need and those who have not resolved their working legal status, are on some record as unemployed. They're not here. I can agree that this does not correspond to some of the intensities in Europe, but in the Conventions of the International Labour and Recommendations, those who are waiting for employment, which are on the records, are not bypassed. Just what I mentioned earlier, it's best to paint here as a problem at these lower levels of this organization of the socio-economic council. Article 4 says the socio-economic council at the level of the Republic has a legal personality. If he has a legal personality, he's supposed to sign up for a register. You can't see what the register is here. But if it is the socio-economic councils of the province and local importance, they are not formed by law but by agreement. As mentioned here in one of these articles, this agreement shall be delivered to the Minister for Labour who keeps records and enters it. Since this advice or these advice from Article 2(2) is competent to address issues referred to in Article 9 let's see what this would look like in the case of the Municipality of Black Grass. It was taken up to a few years ago in statistics as a pandan of something contrary to Novi Sad, Beocin and Belgrade. According to all the statistics, black grass was the weakest, the lowest. It is said – the Socio-economic Council of the Black Grass discusses issues of development and improvement of collective bargaining. Who's gonna collectively negotiate there? Furthermore, the impact of economic policy and the measure to implement it on social development and stability – what are the measures of economic and social policy implemented by local self-government? There is one piece, but it concerns the Centre for Social Work and additional social security rights, but what is most important, as part of local self-management, is something else. Does this mean that the council should propose to the president of the municipality as president of that executive council there to free the economy of municipal taxes so that citizens do not pay water? He won't, he can't. Then, the policies of profit and price – what policy does someone in the municipality of Crna Trava run? If there are two employers, two carpentry shops, three or four organisations, the profit policy is not within the jurisdiction of that employer but should be limited, if nothing else, then the municipality by collective agreement on the lowest labour price. Furthermore, competition and productivity, privatisation and other issues – what does privatisation have to do with this? We have the organs in charge of conducting the privatisation. You also say structural adjustments, protection of the working environment and the environment – it's regulated by law, and if it's about the working environment, there's no guessing. Only innovations are possible to improve quality, but legal minimum must be respected. You're saying he's considering education and professional training. Please return this, this is really unserious, we're wasting valuable time on some things that the government can't handle on its own!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8346	Thank you. The word has Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Policy Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8347	Just two information. The first information that education of economic and social councils is not necessarily outside the republic. So, if it's going to be in Black grass, it depends on the need and that's why it's not mandatory, and the comment of that nature is inappropriate. Secondly, when it comes to the unemployed, the jobless position is regulated in our system, and in this form, through the Republic Employment Council and through local employment councils, which according to the employment law should be formed. Therefore, this type of objection is not involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8348	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8349	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, I must again express my dissatisfaction with this solution to the status of the socio-economic council as defined. His education at the bar is completely impossible. You predict that representatives of the union are involved in the composition of local councils according to representativeness. It's very difficult to do in practice. Since the unions of threads are formed for the level of one municipality or city, they are for some larger territory or at the level of branches in production, then by this model many branches will not be represented in the socio-economic council at the level of the municipality, or the city. This means that there is no room for representatives of the unions in health, in metallurgy, in construction, because they are border formed, not formed for certain territories. How are you going to determine the representativeness when you didn't prescribe it? This response to the fact that there may be no need for socio-economic advice in Montenegro is absolutely deplassed, because we just want to form organs, that is, bodies that will achieve social dialogue in the most vulnerable parts of the country, where the economy has stopped, where there are problems in work, in production, in employment, a large number of unemployed or large numbers of people who, due to various other circumstances, have lost their jobs, right there, need to open social dialogue. Once again, I would like to point out that I believe that the proposal to pass these two laws in the Serbian Parliament is only motivated by political reasons. The government wants to get rid of social tensions. She wants to throw a bone and fight the unions. The inability to determine the union's representativeness at the bar is precisely the basis for their discussion, disagreement, weakness of their position and distraction from union relations and unemployed or employees with very poor working conditions in relation to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely the desire to reject this social pressure by law and the inability to deal with it for a long time, until after this law would change and agree with the realities of life, politically motivated. Along with the law on peaceful work dispute resolution, this is a method and a way to delay problems, to delay the problem that needs to be resolved for 100,000 Serbian citizens who are not connected to a work and pension internship, who have not provided socio-economic security for all those who have received the minimum, and who could not because of the political pressure to exercise the right to adequate earnings, an adequate salary, so I think this is the instrument that the government wants to relieve socio-economic pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8350	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8351	Looks like we don't have any information, so that's what we're talking about. The comment that was on the chambers of commerce, as they were organized, is not. They cannot be involved in social dialogue at all because Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and its branches are funded by law enforcement. According to international standards, employers' associations must be voluntary organisations to participate in social dialogue. So this type of chamber observation like this, so organized, is completely inappropriate. As far as the second part is concerned, the question of the representativeness of trade unions and employers, as you know, is governed by the current Labour Act, which is in force. In the new text, we're adding something, but now there's something and it's according to the law, it should still read the law, establish it locally. Therefore, all these remarks are completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8352	National MP Bosko Ristic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8353	Your Honor, you've given one of your reasons. They're employers and lawyers' chambers. They're all voluntary, self-financed. It is a chamber of employers and was established for the Republic of Serbia and regionally. You also have a health care professional's chamber, you have a private dentist's chamber. These are all chambers of employers who need to participate in social dialogue, so I ask you on what principle will determine their representativeness be?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8354	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8355	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a bill on the socio-economic council on Article 2 in order to improve and specify the text of the law itself. Article 2 reads: "The Social and Economic Council is an independent body that forms: 1) for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Government), representatives of representative employers' associations (hereinafter referred to as employers) and representatives of representative unions (hereinafter referred to as trade unions) established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment says, "Article 2. The bill adds Article 2 which reads: "The representativeness of the trade union and the association of employers, within the meaning of this law, is determined in accordance with the labour rules". Since the legislator has not proposed a solution to determine the representativeness of trade unions and employers' associations, the question of determining the representativeness of social partners in the establishment of socio-economic councils is raised. The only regulation setting out the representativeness of the trade union and employers' associations is the Labour Act, which also indicates the legislator of the law in Article 21(2) of the Bill. For those reasons, it is necessary to accept this solution proposed by this amendment, without going beyond the amendment to Article 21. - I suggested that the words "in terms of labour rules" be deleted in Article 21(2); I think that this way the text of the law would be more consistent, more precise and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8356	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8357	I still believe that there is a possibility of opening a union dispute and thus pushing unions into each other's fights instead of protecting employees' interests. I therefore believe that the proposed amendment, which removes suspicion in the way of establishing the union's representativeness in the bar, is entirely logical and correct. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported and I expect the Government to accept this amendment, in order to fix as much as possible its text of the bill and prevent unnecessary disputes between the participants in the social dialogue. Social dialogue means an agreement, how to find a solution for the unemployed, for people who work under poor conditions, how to improve safety during work and how to ensure an increase in their earnings. Therefore, the way the amendment was proposed allows trade unions to agree on a timely basis and prepare for negotiations to improve the social status of employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8358	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to explain this amendment to our public, I must now enter the building area a little bit. If we compare labour law with home, then the law on economic and social council and the law on peaceful dispute resolution means two scratches from that house. To me, as a man as old as he is, it is not known that even one builder of the house, when he decides to do so, first buys two ticks and later takes another material and starts building a house. The SRS parliamentary group, when it received these two draft laws, found itself a little in the wonder of what to do, since we expected there to be a working law on the agenda first. Since we had no other choice, we have set out to lack these two laws, which in practice will be inadmissible and will hardly be able to live, to try to solve some problems. When solving these problems and monitoring these issues, we respected the International Labour Organisation conventions and tried to fix what was difficult to fix. As MP Zoran Krasic said, these laws have no constitutional basis either, but when this much work was done by both the government and the National Assembly, we tried to find some solutions, so I specifically submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the Law on Economic and Social Council. I have to read how this article now reads: "Social-economic council is established in order to establish and develop social dialogue in matters of importance for the achievement of economic and social freedoms and human rights, the material, social and economic situation of employees and employers and the conditions of their lives and work, the development of a culture of negotiation, the promotion of peaceful resolution of collective labour disputes". The development of democracy and publishing activity follows further in the follow-up of this article. We believe that the economic and social council should abandon publishing activities, but should already address those problems and issues that are why it is being set up. Earlier, the minister said that the problems of the unemployed are solved by some other institutions, i.e. they have other solutions provided by law. We did not get the impression, we in the SRS, as well as the citizens of Serbia, of course, that in the last four years, care was taken about the unemployed. We therefore suggested adding the following text to this article, to add "material, social and economic situation of the unemployed and the conditions of their employment" after the term "work disputes". So in our election campaign, we promised not to solve the problem of unemployment, but to do everything slowly to solve the problem of unemployment, or to move slowly into employment. One of the first steps that we want to take is to include in this economic and social council, as equal, and representatives of the unemployed. True, it says in the International Labour Organisation Convention, that some countries solve the problem through tripartite representation. Some suggest that the two entities are factors in the settlement, but in a country that has about a million unemployed, I think there could be four entities that will negotiate and solve these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8360	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8361	Since this issue of this bill has been banished, on this amendment, I will ask a question, and there is no Minister - what does the Government plan, when will it send us a proposal for a council on industry, and a special law on a council on agriculture, and a special law on advice on internal affairs, on advice on electricity, on a council on construction? Approximately, this is the criterion run by the government of the Republic of Serbia when it was doing this. We're trying to distract you that Article 3 needs to be fixed, because it really offends something. See what they wrote in Article 3. It is said: "Social-economic council is established in order to establish and develop social dialogue". If it takes into account who are members of this social council, then it is the representatives of the state, the representatives of the employers and the representatives of the employees. It should be polite of their dialogue. Their dialogue can probably be polite in a room, but what kind of "vide" for the unemployed and those in a state of social need of that courtesy? I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that there's no provision here that says the participants in that so-called. Social dialogue insists on respecting the law, that the government undertakes to comply with the provisions of the law and fulfil its obligations, that the government assumes an obligation to guarantee that employers will meet their obligations. There are no such provisions. What further says: "In matters of importance for the achievement of economic and social freedoms and human rights." Not only economically, but all freedoms and human rights are listed in the Constitution and all laws regulate this area. There's no law that doesn't regulate that area. Who's the one who has the exclusive right to have the three of them sit in one seat and talk? Then why the National Assembly? Further: "The material, social and economic position of employees and employers and the conditions of their lives and work, the development of a culture of negotiation".... The culture of negotiation is basically this, not solving social needs. "Incentives the peaceful resolution of collective labour disputes." This can't stand in the law, this can't be a norm! This could be a political programme, it could even be a political pamphlet. It can be used in talks, agreements, negotiations, on the form and manner of how the one responsible for law enforcement comes to its economic policy. You will probably have a draft budget bill for 2005 in a month. There's a memo there. An integral part of this bill should be a consolidated public spending balance. It's the government's economic policy. Should we then ask the Prime Minister - did he consult the Social-Economic Council or the Council for Industry, the Agriculture Council before printing the bill, etc? Why does the government show us in this way that it does not want to rule, but rather wants the culprit for this situation to find elsewhere and all the unsatisfactory directions elsewhere. He doesn't want the government. He doesn't want this minister in front of his office. We're just asking a question, why aren't the laws being enforced? All the government asked here is to regulate the laws, as it is said here, to be valid so that they can be applied. Why don't the laws apply? If the laws were applied, then there would be no need to form a "surveillance". Why don't you sit down and think about why we don't have a law on advice for industry, why don't we have a law on advice for agriculture? Some of the goods that have been bought out haven't been paid off yet. What, when there's a problem, then we'll pass a law on the advice on agriculture, so if there's anything you need, please don't go to Germany, but go there, they're the legal face and let them solve it for you. We encourage you to collectively negotiate and develop a culture of dialogue, and in addition to printing, even publication.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8362	Anyone else want a word? The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8363	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, this article provides that the socio-economic council will establish texts, create brochures, publish various publications, and thus the government of the Republic of Serbia gets some more funds for public information, which is contrary to the government's programme, contrary to the exposé we heard from Mr Kostunica that there will be rationalisation, that there will be a reduction in consumption. And it seems to me that this law only now opens up the possibility of opening some government agencies, organizations, the possibility of hiring a large number of people. It seems to me that this law should only allow for the expansion of the coalition potential and the settlement of coalition partners in some new areas, such as publishing, which will be controlled by socio-economic councils, i.e. employers, or parts of the government. That is why I believe that this provision is contrary to what we have heard here as a proposal from the government, what was voted on in parliament when the government was voted on and it is contrary to the regulations that define the possibility that unions, parties, and the government itself are the founders of some public votes. All of this, with the question of how the position of the legal person of the socio-economic council will be defined, all of this creates one confusion and cohesion. This confusion and cohesion will take place particularly in disputes arising from the work of the socio-economic council with some third parties, legal or physical, and in practice we will have a large number of ambiguities regarding the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8364	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 5 of the Law speaks of the composition of the socio-economic council. He predicts that the socio-economic council numbers 18 members, by six members from the three groups: representatives of the government, trade unions, employers. The amendment stipulates that the socio-economic council numbers 20 members, five each group, and the fourth group would be representatives of the unemployed if the previous amendments submitted by the SRS were adopted, and should for two reasons, then you will see how meaningful this amendment is. It is the following, namely, not one such advice to be a tripartite body, there are countries in Europe where it is not, but if SRS MPs have to tell you what a trend is in the countries of Western Europe, I will tell you. Trend is that these and similar bodies go to multiparty and there are as many interested groups for certain jobs as possible, to engage in the work of such bodies, so it would be good to include the unemployed in this advice. It is simple that other countries would have this kind of unemployment rate and this number, of which we have stated they have tripartite advice, they would probably also have the unemployment rate as a category, and that is one reason why you should accept this amendment. Another reason that is very important, namely, is contained in Article 12. Yesterday I said something about it, and you have no opportunity and this amendment will only correct what you have done as a mistake in the bill that the practically socio-economic council chooses the chairman from its ranks. (Look away, it's your Article 12) Representatives of the government, representative trade unions and representatives of the employers' association are acting alternately. Previous members were regulated to hold the mandate of members of the socio-economic council for four years. Now tell me what mathematics you think, if the term of office is four years, these three partners change for a year, what happens to the fourth year, namely, which of them will get the opportunity to be chaired twice during the term of office and the other two to be suspended. If you accept the amendments so far to introduce the unemployed, practically, as the fourth group in the socio-economic council, then you will also solve this problem that will arise in article 12 when you choose these chairmans and when these systems change the donations as you have predicted. Moreover, if this council had not been formed in 2001, the amendments to the SRS would probably have read - Article 1 is deleted, Article 2 is deleted and thus by the end of the law, because there is essentially no need for such a law. However, since such advice has already been formed in 2001, we see that the government's desire to put this council into some legal frameworks, then what we are trying to do to the amendments is just to make this law applicable, that you can apply it in practice and that the unemployed as a very important category introduce economic issues that are big, huge, or problems that are huge in this country, because, according to Article 9, this socio-economic council is even pleading, considering employment policy issues. Employment policy should not be resolved without those who are most interested, which are unemployed, and nothing is obliged by this government that this body must be tripartite and that it must only have three partners in the council, but must have four partners, no one will blame you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8366	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted follows the course of all amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS and to the 6th and to the last member in an attempt to imitate this law and make it acceptable and applicable. Otherwise, this law will remain only as an icaban, inapplicable in practice until the end of your term, and I hope we won't wait long. If in countries where trade unions are developed, in countries where trade unions really defend employees' rights, in Germany, France, where the feet shake on employers when unions fail to talk or strike, maybe such a law could be applied. In our country, where unions do not exist, there are only on paper, where the president of one union has done nothing but make a 700-square-square house in Zemun and floor heating in the yard, where the other union president has done nothing, and he was also the minister of this ministry, as far as I can remember, except making himself president of the board of directors in the employment office, in the employment fund, employees can't expect any protection. So, in an attempt to emulate this law, we introduce another category that you forgot about, which is your fault "the most numerous", because several hundred thousand workers are from the DOS-Mali Revolution, the bulldozers, so far lost their jobs, several hundred thousand people you have excluded from the decision by this law and all previous laws. Article 6 on which I tabled the amendment reads: "The government appoints and resolves its representatives in the Social-Economic Council on the proposal of the Minister in charge of Labour Affairs (hereinafter referred to as Minister), and representatives of trade unions and employers name and resolve trade unions and unemployed. "I propose that article 6 reads as follows: "The government appoints and resolves its representatives in the socio-economic council on the proposal of the Minister in charge of Labour Affairs (hereinafter referred to as Minister), and representatives of the union, employers and unemployed are dismissed by trade unions, employers and unemployed. "I suggest that you adopt all previous amendments, including this one, so that this law may not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8368	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the bill on the socio-economic council. The amendment calls for Article 9(3) to be amended and to read: "In order to take views, two-thirds of the members of the socio-economic council need agreement." This amendment is not related to the previous amendments of the SRS, as it does not enter into the problem of the composition of the council. The purpose of the amendment is to simplify and make it possible to take the positions that the socio-economic council is responsible for. The composition of the advice by nature of things will be done by groups whose interests are opposed, and therefore it is impossible to reach consensus on the views of the council. The solution offered by this amendment prevents the blocking of the work of the council, with the two-thirds majority guaranteeing that at least two opposing sides in the council must take a common position. If you would accept amendments to the SRS that require the extension of the council with the unemployed, then this amendment would have full meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8370	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 10 of the proposed law, I have provided that the Government and legally undertake to deliver opinions within the meaning of Article 10(1) to the Council and to time-determining what is the period when it must deliver its position. Four existing positions are added to the fifth position, which says the government is obliged to notify the socio-economic council of its views within 5 days of the date of submission, because it is illogical that after ignoring the council from the old competent ministry and the government has no obligation to address the socio-economic council. In an explanation submitted by the government, which says it does not accept the amendment for the reason that the participants of the socio-economic council are among other things and the representatives of the government, which means that they are obliged to inform the socio-economic council (on the views of the Government) - but there is no record in the law that they are obliged to do so. We wanted to make them bound by this amendment and timed in what period they needed to deliver their opinions and their answers regarding what Article 10, Article 1, in particular, states. Since the government has not accepted my amendment, I do not accept the government's opinion and remain with this amendment. I hope so, and it would be good if this time section of the weapons, because we have cases that often come before the government to protect their rights, wait all day, break the thresholds from the ministry to the ministry, haven't told anyone who's bothering them. It is not known when someone will receive them, they are delayed from morning to morning, so if they have to seek their justice anyway, let's at least in some future law, which would be applicable, to predict that time. Indeed, when it is necessary to adopt a draft law and a proposal for other regulations of importance for an economic and social position, we have a clear deadline when we will get the government's opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8372	Anyone else want a word? Yes, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and then Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary to accept the amendment to the 10th Law of counterpart Dark Glisic for the reason it is impossible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to hide behind Article 1. It's a bill of law. If you haven't already shown good will, but we will see, you have time to accept in Article 1 voting day, too, the Radete amendment - that representatives of the unemployed are included in the government, then it is necessary to show seriousness as holders of the most legislative functions in the control process when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that attitude 1 provides, as you have suggested, that Ms. Glisic is here now following what we are saying, because the minister has come out, involved in the process concerning the socio-economic council, does not oblige the government, as a fellow Glisic asks to declare that she is of particular, very important importance to the employees, issues within 15 days. In the end, what kind of government is it if it can't talk about such vital issues important to workers, for employees in all segments of our economy, I'd rather say unemployed, those who strike, those who seek their rights, those who seek the protection of their rights, to give their opinion. Is it an insufficient engagement of the Ministry of Government, which is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not accept such a binding position for the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Isn't that her responsibility as the executive authority we choose here? If we have a very bad practice when it comes to the Privatisation Agency, when it comes to everything that's been going on, multiple abuses and robberies, I'll be free to say, because it's really a real term in the privatisation process over the past few years, why is it a problem for you to accept that the government commits itself to a certain question to its opinion? You know for a fact that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia predicts that the Government is obliged, of course we can consider that without its opinion, that the amendments that the MPs have submitted their opinion. On such important matters as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as far as the economic and social council is concerned, nothing in the government will hurt, (head) if it is ready to solve these accumulated problems. The other thing is, right now, if the resolute minister and the entire government want to put under the rug, not to face the fact that they're hurting the unemployed, socially endangered in this country. Therefore, it would be good for you, as MPs, to accept the fact that we, however, in that equal division of power, are in a legislative, executive and judicial capacity, yet someone who must have control over the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore rightly seek, or one of your fellow MPs, to have this binding position for the Government by adding a new position in Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8374	The word has an MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8375	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that article 10 is just proof of my claims, which I presented during the afternoon and afternoon exposure, that the government only wants this law to reject social problems from itself. This Article of 10 does not resolve participation between the entities to be factors, to be involved in social dialogue, but rather mentions an opinion that the Government rejects from itself, including from the minister, to the social council, solving social problems. The growing demands of individual entities, especially the union that wants to protect the position of employees primarily because of the payment of minimum earnings, but also the adequate earnings and salaries that these people have made during their work and that all these problems are related to an organ, as this economic and social council is called, without any authority, without any influence. They can give their opinion on the bill. The minister has an obligation, if it refers to the section of his portfolio, to deliver his views to the socio-economic council, and only if those views conflict with the opinion of the socio-economic council can the socio-economic council address the government. It says that in principle the socio-economic council cannot address the government. In principle, he can't. And only when it's being promoted is they get through the procedure through the competent ministries, so the competent ministry says it doesn't agree with the position of the socio-economic council, and yet it means some previous procedure, that the trade unions have spoken to the socio-economic council, says a period of several months will pass until a union position or demand comes in a position to decide on it. Therefore, it is clear that the story comes down to diversifying socio-economic tensions, pressures, legitimate requirements for employees, but also requires employers to firmly regulate the matter of working relationships and to assume the responsibility of both employees and employers to keep this relationship going smoothly. It is noteworthy here that the billmaker excludes the competent committees of the Serbian Parliament from participating in socio-economic dialogue. The competent committees of the Assembly are directly avoided here and are prevented from being contacted by all of these factors represented in the socio-economic council, to participate, to negotiate, to hear these opinions. It is as if it is not about MPs who should finally give an assessment of every draft law by making a statement and a debate in this House. This is where the competent committees shut down. Their place isn't scheduled. There is no obligation for ministers or ministries to provide proposals and draft laws to the competent committees of the Assembly in good time, to have dialogue between the Assembly committees on the integrity of certain legal solutions. So, I will conclude, this solution offered by the Serbian government defined by Article 10 is to avoid responsibility for resolving social and economic tensions, to shift the ball to the burden of the socio-economic council and to dissipate solutions to the socio-economic council's relationship – the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8376	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Please, there are words from MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what this amendment is about, colleague Darko Glisic. This Article 10 refers only to the situation where the socio-economic council is considering draft laws and proposals for other regulations of importance for the socio-economic situation of employees and employers, etc. That means it's about counseling at the republican level. I suppose the government's response to this amendment was therefore that the government had its representatives in the socio-economic council, and there was no need for the government to declare its views, as required by this amendment. However, if the government already has its representatives on the socio-economic council at the republican level, then why is it possible for the socio-economic council to have its opinion on a position to deliver to the government at all? If the Government has no obligation to respond to the socio-economic council and has its representatives in the Council, then the Council would at all deliver its opinion to the Government on a draft law that is under consideration, because it is sufficient for government representatives in this socio-economic council to take this into account during the Council's work. But it's not like that. This is where the government didn't honestly answer why it didn't accept this amendment. In fact, only representatives of the government, appointed by the government, are on the socio-economic council. It's not the government. And this, when addressing the socio-economic council, he addresses the ministry that is required, it is said, within 30 days, to notify the socio-economic council of his views, and when it is already due to mean that nothing further should be stated. If it's due, it'll do it. However, the competent ministry for these issues may also not notify the socio-economic council of its views. Why can't he? He may not respect this decision, this position in Article 10 of the law because there are no criminal provisions that will force the ministry to act in accordance with this law. So, what's the government gonna do? Or advice? Or anyone, if the ministry doesn't notify the socio-economic council within 30 days of its position. So the difference is big, and that's why the government's argument is wrong. The difference is large, in the socio-economic council, the government has its representatives. They're not members of the government. And when a council is addressed by this member, it addresses the Ministry, or the Government, if it does not accept, so that only the representatives of the Government know practically what it is, but not the Government, and therefore it is necessary to adopt this amendment, which guarantees that the Government will, after obtaining a request from the socio-economic council, have to declare itself within 15 days of its views on the issue of considering the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8378	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8379	Thank you. I have submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS, to point out the illogicalities that exist here. Article 11 says, I will quote: "The Social-Economic Council can educate permanent and temporary working bodies to consider and propose positions in certain areas. The Social-Economic Council can invite representatives of NGOs, as well as prominent scientists and experts to participate in the work of working bodies, without the right to vote." Because of the very character of this council, it is unnecessary to educate any working bodies, as well as the subsequent involvement of NGOs and other legal and physical persons in the work of the council. I would like to hear who, how and whose money these experts and prominent scientists will be paid, as said in Article 11. Aroundly, they are said to come, advise, and not have the right to vote, as well as not to be paid. It could be interpreted that way. That's pretty funny. It is a particularly funny situation when it is said – we should call on NGOs, because we have very bad experience with the NGO sector, with those women from the NGO sector who do not have any desire to worry about our socio-economic situation. They'd prefer it to go away completely, and so the problem would disappear. That's why we're proposing that article 11 be completely deleted and that it disappears from this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8380	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8381	The amendment of colleague Stevica Dedjanski is very meaningful and it is absolutely unacceptable for us to keep such a member of the law, Mr. Minister, in the matter of Article 11, which says: "The Social-Economic Council can educate permanent and temporary working bodies to consider and propose positions in certain areas. The Social-Economic Council can invite representatives of NGOs, as well as prominent scientists and experts to participate in the work of working bodies, without the right to vote." It is truly amazing that you start with Article 1. you reject the possibility given to you by your colleague, Verica Radeta, not because of writing an amendment, but to include a huge body of unemployed people in the socio-economic council, and this is repeated in Article 3 in Article 5, where your colleague Rankic suggests that you have 20 members instead of 18 and five of the unemployed, and here you suggest that we have representatives of the so-called. NGOs for which, this year in the 2005 budget projection, we will ask them not to receive a single dinar! It is necessary for you to realize once already that these NGOs are not helping anyone in this country, and especially those who are looking for work and those who are unemployed, but who are comfortable, from their well-equipped offices and rooms, from their working sessions, have a fine life and help is not for those who need help the most!- I'm sorry. On the other hand, it would be a turn if any of the representatives of the government told us – and who are prominent scientific experts in the area of "they and they". When it was on the agenda a few days ago, a law proposed by the Government Minister for Culture and Information, I have already appeared to you, on state television in the morning daily by an exhausted professor of the Belgrade Faculty of Law, extremely ill-oriented when it comes to our national and state interests, a certain Vladimir Vodalić, and now it is imposed on me as logical, that you, in the socio-economic council, as experts from that area, you can call Alexander Vlahovic, former minister, and now a colleague and MP from the DS. You know, when Vlahovic from the position of executive director of his firm performed such and such an assessment of the company in our country, he apparently promoted himself as an expert, and as he was professional then proved himself, along with all those experts from the Ministry of Privatisation. Therefore, the great danger lies behind this. Who's gonna get away with it, who's those experts, what they're gonna do here, no matter what they don't have a say in it. You need to know once and for all that, in this country, through the laws proposed by the Government to the MPs, the responsibility for doing some work can have, if this is about social dialogue with union representatives, we have nothing against, and we were them, when no one wanted to talk to them, and especially when there were incidents in front of the Assembly, and when the police were sent to the workers to beat them, who we wanted to talk to. We're looking to get involved and unemployed. Like this, NGOs, which are sectors for money laundering, what those you give and who spend a lot of money on the budget, what others, and you so-called. Not that we don't need experts, but with their projects and what they've been doing so far, they've shown that it wasn't really their goal to improve the social position of all the structures of the population in our country. Therefore, Minister, accept the amendment of my fellow Glisic, delete this member, you will be free of a large ballast that is dragging on many other ministries, and then we will really know that we do not have to finance different individuals who are seeking arrest on various sides, or some additional engagement to earn that euro more.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8382	Thank you. The amendment is the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski. The word has Sreto Peric, and before that, Minister Slobodan Lalovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8383	Just one announcement and a message for the People's Messengers. On the basis of Article 139. The Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the absence of state reasons, of Resolute Minister Velimir Ilic, withdraws from this session of the Assembly of the 8th Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Postal Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8384	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sveto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by supplementing the amendment of my colleague, Stevica Dedjanski, to Article 11, I would only like to point out to the MPs that this law, which has been proposed by the Resolute Ministry and Government, is indeed one populist law and is not realistic at all. In addition to Article 5, which regulates in the socio-economic council law that there are 18 members and 18 of their deputies, there is also a secretariat headed by the secretary and I suppose a number of other experts, should be subsequently hired, i.e. it is left for freedom of the economic and social council so that it can engage in permanent or occasional groups or NGOs. That's what my colleague Dejanski said, who he wouldn't want to consult at all. His opinion is shared by most MPs, if not all of the SRS, but I wouldn't be talking about it right now. I find it interesting that the government doesn't accept the amendment to the 11th colleague of Stevica Dedjanski. We've been explaining and trying to get four subjects into this council, i.e. and the representatives of the unemployed, and through all the reasons and explanations of the government, which is why they do not accept the amendments, it is repeatedly pointed out that it is a tripartite body. All right, let's accept that attitude, but all of a sudden, Article 11 of this law requires a number of other persons or working groups that need a little help. But especially something that can't stand here and of course I'm going to ask the minister a question, because yesterday he said that this socio-economic council was founded in 2001. However, he had no basis in the law, but he says there was one shell, and here in the government's explanation for Article 11 says it was founded in 2001 and 2002 "five permanent working groups of the Council to discuss certain issues and the possibility of involvement of NGOs". It is said: "This solution has proved to be useful and celery" and we know that this advice has done nothing. Suddenly these working groups turned out to be useful and celery. That's why I'd like the minister to explain to us what he did to that council in the first place, so he needed these working groups to do it even better? I think it would be good if this amendment were adopted, then maybe we could get this law, which really won't be applicable and which is more farce than real law, to get something of quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8386	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the Santa Claus amendment? The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. Let me thank you for this decision, for the respect of the MPs and for the willingness of the Government and the Registrar of Ilic to respect the Assembly and that, when there is an official absence, it is preferable to withdraw the law rather than to present itself to the Assembly during the absence of the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8387	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I believe that Article 11 does not respect it until the end and NGOs and experts, above all because they do not have the right to vote in taking positions in the work of professional bodies. I cannot agree with the speech of some previous debaters who, in NGOs and priorities, see, above all, the enemies of the state, the enemies of the employees, the enemies of the unemployed, the enemies of the national interests or the pests that are not useful at all on our political or social scene. We need experts as well. We also need organisations that are not under the dictatorship of current political garments that have a narrow party interest. I believe that there are a very large number of professional and capable NGOs, which and how they contribute and help the troubled Serbian population, start from humanitarian activities, from micro-centre employment training, from micro-financing of certain initial jobs. I believe these NGOs have experience in solving our population's problems. First of all, I mean the people who escaped from the war of the affected areas. That's why I don't think it's a waste to invite experts, even if they're organized through the NGO sector. But I also think that these experts must really have an impact on taking what is said here, attitudes. I don't think that word's very good either. It comes from a communist period, because attitudes are actually a relationship to facts and arguments that are very difficult to change or change through decision-making at individual forums. As we advocate free and civil society, I find that the subject of attitudes is not adequate for one such law. That is why I do not believe that there is a regulated way in which these professional bodies will work within the framework of the socio-economic council. There's no procedure, and it's all about decision-making. Therefore, it is not envisaged who and how it determines the procedure in which the professional bodies participate, decide and take, as proposed by the law, views in relation to the areas in which certain laws are adopted, which they point to, which give an opinion to the relevant ministry. That is why I believe that this member should be corrected, but on the other hand I cannot accept a priori view of the harmfulness of NGOs and of the non-governmental sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8388	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Stefan Zankov has submitted an amendment to Article 12, which is directly related to Article 2 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Verica Radeta, where the Council provides that the Council, except for representatives of the government, trade unions and employers, representatives of those who are the most numerous, therefore of the unemployed. This member follows the amendment to Article 2 and foresees the role of the chairman-in-Office of the government, trade unions, employers and unemployed. Given that the term of office lasts four years, the situation would arise if each of the representatives had one year of office each. I think it is good for the unemployed to make advice, given that it is indeed an army of people, which in Serbia is almost increasing almost every day, and it would be good to hear their voice; it would be good to hear their opinion on the draft law and other rules which should probably create conditions for these people, who are unemployed, to be employed -- therefore we consider and remain in order to make advice and therefore, within one year of these four, to be presidents of the council.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8390	The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8391	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I won't talk long about this amendment, but I will use the minister's presence to ask him how he thinks, provided Mr. Zankov's amendment is not accepted, to resolve the functioning of the socio-economic council when it comes to the chairman. Namely, you must change this member whether you accept this amendment or not. This member will have to be changed. Why? Because you have a tripartite council, because the term of office of members of the council takes four years and because, as president, the chair of the rotating council is being replaced by representatives, those who have their members in the council, and then you will be in a position that whoever starts first in the fourth year of office will be chaired again. I'm just warning you of the final position in this article of what the chairman is doing and what rights he has. This will not be at all naive when it is decided who will be first and to whom, again during the same term, another right to chair will belong. The chair of the socio-economic council shall represent the socio-economic council, conclude legal affairs, make available on behalf of and at the expense of the socio-economic council and shall be responsible for the legal conclusion of legal transactions and the availability of funds. Now you can see that you will be in a situation, unless you accept amendments to the SRS, that you are changing Article 12 yourself, or you will simply experience huge problems in practice when you implement it. Believe that no representative of these three, practically, by the nature of things the opposite party will be immune to starting first with the seat of the chairman so that the fourth would have a seat of the chairman during that term.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8392	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14(1), which reads: "The Social-Economic Council on the territory of the Autonomous Region or the Unit of Local Self-Government (hereinafter referred to as the Local Council) can be established by an agreement between the competent executive bodies of the Autonomous Region or the unit of local self-government, trade unions, employers and unemployed, established for the territory of the Autonomous Province, i.e. the unit of local self-government (hereinafter the participants)". Since we have an increasing number of unemployed, it is justified and necessary to include in the work of councils and representatives of the unemployed. In explaining this bill, the minister said the unemployed were involved in solving their problems through the Employment Law, which is essentially not true. The unemployed are left to themselves without being able to in any way influence the solving of the enormous problems that our society is burdened with. That is why it is necessary to adopt my amendment, as well as other amendments to the SRS, that at least through this law the government is experiencing the unemployed as citizens of this country, and do not forget that their number is almost equal to the number of employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8394	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8395	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as previous legal projects, are also aimed at divorcing, which is to force our citizens to solve their problems by means of a detour. That's why we Serbian radicals have been against all the legal projects that predict the establishment of some agencies, trust, now advice, centres, etc. So, it's simply removing responsibility from yourself by referring citizens to someone else, and in fact through those agencies, their centers and councils, the government wants in some way to have its power in small, or their own party offices to continue to manage their own people, and in fact they wouldn't be responsible. In this way, he wants things to be watered down, wants to avoid responsibility rather than be directly responsible for those in charge, which are the ministries and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As did the previous amendments to the SRS, so did this amendment, which I submitted to Article 15, aim to improve the text of this law and, as a matter of fact, to be applicable in practice. In fact, the very finding that the 2005 budget singles out about 15 million funds for the Council's functioning, shows that Serbian citizens are still singled out their funds and that the law deserves certain attention and criticism sent by SRS lawmakers. This amendment changes to Article 15(2), and I assumed that two-thirds of the members of the local council, not by consensus, were required to take positions. It means that a position on the council should be adopted or taken under the prescribed law to be the consent of all members of the council. If this Article 15 remains likely to have been blocked, as has been shown in practice, that never on certain issues the opposing parties will be able to reach an agreement 100%. I therefore believe that this amendment to Article 15(2) should be amended, accepted by my amendment and thus, as well as the previous amendments that are related, I mean amendments to the SRS, so as to improve this text and to be applicable in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8396	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8397	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a mathematical problem. In order to take views, as provided for by the law in Article 15, all members of the local council are required to agree. As you have imagined the tripartite council, attitudes are taken on the issues referred to in Article 9. Only when you read Article 9 stands and everything needs to be done with the local council if it is established. It's only comforting that it doesn't have to be established, because if it is established, let's say, it even considers issues of health and social protection and security, demographic movements, etc. It is difficult for these three opposing groups to reach full agreement and unanimously take a stand. That is why it is foreseen that there should be no blockade of the work of these councils at local level, the introduction of the fourth factor in this council and with a two-thirds majority. Practically, you have the option, if the council counts 20 members, to take a decision or take a stand. These 14, at least three groups of these four, must be unanimous, and this one will very easily comply with that decision and say that they are probably right if the three mutually opposed groups think the same thing, but if full consent is sought, believe me, you will not be able to achieve it in practice. If you would accept this, it would make sense and we could advise them to function locally, where they are founded. If you don't accept it, you'll see for yourself that they won't be able to take their stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8398	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8399	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment to Article 22 refers to the right of municipal, local councils to establish working bodies. The working bodies themselves have already been spoken of by my predecessors, the attitude of the SRS towards NGOs and experts. I'd like that from another angle. I believe that local councils themselves, local socio-economic councils, are quite legally unfounded in this bill of law. Their work, their goals are very problematic. If you look at the title - social policy, economic policy is run by the Republic. A part of the work of these councils would be very narrow. I think that in this bill, they intended to dull that blade of union struggle, possibly, to divorce this debate or to be an alibi of the government or local self-government in some disputes or in the event of some social unrest and in itself are a great cost to the citizens of Serbia. I'd talk about it, too. If funding is needed to establish these councils, only a tenth of what is needed at the level of the Republic, we come up with a figure of one million to two million dinars per municipality. Multiply that by the number of municipalities and get to about 300 - 400 million dinars. There is no reason not to be founded, because they are very easy to establish, and their obligations to local self-government are undefined. These are some benefits that council members are afforded, which means they themselves are a great burden on the citizens of Serbia. If they don't have a purpose, they don't have a specific goal, there's no need to expand and allocate some special funds, which would further burden Serbia's citizens. That's why I find it unnecessary to extend their powers. I would also ask the chairman to, according to the Rules of Procedure, check that we have a quorum to work on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8400	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Please don't throw it away. It is a clear Rules of Procedure: if an authorised representative requests a quorum check, of course we will check. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Agreements (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Gordana Pop-Lazić, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Sarović, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Vojislav Milajić, Milovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milan Stanimirović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milan Stevović, Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanović, Igor Bečić, Živan Vladimirović, Milorad Mirčić, Mita Avramov, Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antić, Srdojo Komazec, Milorad Krstinić, Miljko Vjevrović, Milan Vjević, Zlatko Radić, Rodoljub Gačević, Miroljubjuvljan Šilić, Miroljubljan Krastavić, Dragolović, Dragoljubović, Darko Gliković, Stojan Cvetović, Bobjan Vjević, Gorana Živić, Dragana Živić, Dragana Živić, Branjan Živić, Branjan Živić, Braniljić, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes has also been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have to make one remark, because I've reported to the first member, but my colleagues have been standing, so you haven't seen me answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8402	I ask MPs who are tired of sitting in front of MPs, because then I can't see. I'm giving you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8403	So, I believe that Article 1 has violated the legal system in Serbia, because a mandatory procedure is being introduced to resolve disputes peacefully. The peaceful resolution of disputes implies the agreement of parties in the dispute and implies their desire to come to a peaceful path. This introduces a parajudicial system and introduces a new procedure that is not based on the Constitution. Every citizen of Serbia has the authority to decide on labour rights on his own. If a person wishes to resolve his right based on work and working relationship, he submits an application, i.e. to the competent court and to the competent court, he has the opportunity to settle his dispute in a peaceful manner. This may be a court or non-judicial settlement, but it can be resolved if the lawsuit is dropped. In this way, the party in the dispute that wants to give up its demand cannot, but must initiate the procedure and when the proceedings are initiated, must go into the process for the peaceful settlement of the dispute to the end. The basic concepts of Article 2 relating to parties that can be resolved, participate, in the process of peaceful dispute resolution are unclear, first of all, when you have in mind and the possibility that workers who are also shareholders in their company appear as parties to the dispute. Then it is not clear whether they will report on that side of employers or on the employees' side. This kind of confusion will make it impossible to resolve procedures and disputes in this peaceful settlement procedure, and very often when parties intend to dispute each other, such issues of legitimacy for participation in the peace settlement dispute will be disputed. It is not provided for by the authority to decide on the legislation. Therefore, it is not envisaged that a body that will measure or literally resolve which party it negotiates with, especially in disputes where the parties and employers and employees are. This applies to large systems where employees have become shareholders, and at the same time they work in these companies and have a slow, precisely about minimum earnings, that's something that can be controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8404	Anyone else on the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is known that we have recently had inflation of regulations where nothing is achieved from the aspect of the exercise of the rights of our citizens. This proposal slows down the resolution of our citizens' numerous disputes. Many institutions exist to resolve disputes. In practice, this institution will not contribute to the acceleration or more efficient and more economic management of any procedure, and it will not make citizens any better and this is ineffective from the aspect of legal science. This could sooner be called a political-legal issue. So, if the promoter had taken the political-legal issue into account, he would have respected the existence of existing laws that regulate this matter. So if the citizens wanted to and if they could settle a disputed relationship peacefully, they would not have allowed them to come before the peacemaker. This peacemaker is nowhere known in the countries of the European Union. I asked around, I looked at certain regulations of parallel law, and I couldn't find this regulation in such a way as to solve the dispute between employers, both collective and individual faces, and also individuals. As the political-legal issue with this proposal should have been kept in mind, it should not have been before Parliament. Many agencies, many peacemakers, they only cost the state and taxpayers. Who will pay for this institution, perhaps the taxpayers of Serbia? The director, committees, members, etc. must be paid out of their pockets. The funds for the implementation of this law must be provided from the budget, the funds will not be small. This pulls one number of bureaucracy, the number of employees and perpetrators who should be working on these jobs. There is a law on litigation of a truly normal and effective means of resolving the disputed relationship. Citizens shouldn't come before this institution, because there's gonna be one thing about all this. It is known that we have a peace council in local communities and in some cases the institution has proved effective. In a number of cases, citizens resolve a disputed relationship, and if they want to settle the dispute peacefully, then they will resolve it at a preparatory hearing before the competent court. What's going to open some new institutions here now, form, to take money from that leather purse, which would say government. Only these agencies, the socio-economic agency this year will cost four million in a month and a half to the state and taxpayers. You know how retired our citizens are, it's 660 pensions and it's just as much as it's gonna cost the agency in a month and a half. 15 million are planned for the agency next year. I've calculated, it's 2,500 pensions, so much could be paid to our citizens. What do we need with this many imaginary agencies, institutions that just need to be funded? The big problem, any party that is in power, is not what every party that comes, at least in practice, has recently shown itself, is primarily looking to calm down the chairs of its party champions or interested parties. Look at the Privatisation Agency. Go to the Terrace, you'll see that agency, I don't think the cabinets of the UN Secretary-General are as equipped as that agency. I have to say that this is ineffective, harmful to the state, it costs a lot of money and we don't have to engage in the formation and establishment of some agencies, some institutions that are just looking to draw money from citizens and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8406	Thank you. Anyone else on the amendment? The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word, and then Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8407	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was really nice to remind myself of an institution that was abolished 15 years ago that was a peace council in the local communities, they don't exist long ago. As far as these amendments are concerned, which there are many here, and as regards erasing this proposal that there is an agency and that jobs are entrusted to the service of legal assistance in municipalities, there really should be a lot of ignorance in themselves, therefore, the function, the spirit and ideas of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, so that these jobs should be given to legal aid services in municipalities. First of all, these services are academic. And that some are formed, in these departments in the municipalities someone works, and the one who works has to be paid, so it's back in the water this thesis that someone's going to have to pay the people who work at the agency, because someone's going to have to pay the people who work in legal aid. On the other hand, legal assistance services are not qualified to carry out this type of work - professional assistance jobs in municipalities, as we know, are carried out by employees in municipalities, and jobs of peaceful work dispute resolution require independent, impartial experts who are able to handle peaceful work dispute resolution tasks. In this regard, I must stress that, since the intention of these amendments is completely removed from the bill's proposal, instead of giving these jobs to the legal aid service, for these reasons that I have now mentioned the G17 parliamentary group plus that will not support it. And we are not going to take up congregation time to say this to each amendment, so I declare in advance that none of these amendments have been declared not only on the Legislative Committee that they are not in line with the Order, but it is indeed a matter that cannot be entrusted to the Service of Legal Assistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8408	National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8409	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the minister is not here, because I wanted to ask a few questions concerning standards in the area of procedures in which citizens' rights are being decided. First of all, international documents prescribe that parties in the dispute have the right to choose a natural judge or natural arbiter, which means that no one can impose it on them, and unless there is agreement on the personality of the arbiter, no one can impose on them the personality of the arbiter. Then the procedure for a peaceful solution to the dispute ends at the very beginning, unless the parties can determine the person who will decide in their dispute. The judiciary is based on the principle of a natural judge that cases are segregated in order of admission and that, in principle, random numbers, cases are assigned to judges for consideration. This avoids favouring and mixing a third party in a dispute among citizens. Our Article 4 provides for arbiter as a person who decides on the subject of an individual dispute, however, the individual dispute itself is not defined in a proper and clear way. For what? He says that an individual dispute within the meaning of this law is considered a dispute over the cancellation of the labour contract and payment of minimum earnings. The question arises when the dispute between workers and employers is over what the employer wants only to pay the worker a minimum profit, and he wants the right to make a full profit, is this going to be an individual dispute that he will resolve in the process of peaceful dispute resolution? The arbitration officer, as provided for by this law, does not have the appropriate professional equipment, nor does it show who the prescribed conditions are to meet the person in order to be elected to a competition called by the agency. It is said that the arbiter can only be a person who has a high professional capacity and at least five years of experience in the field of working relations. Any high-experienced employee who has signed a working contract, which lasts for more than five years, may be invited to the job contract and say he has experience in working relations for a longer period of five years. On the other hand, the concept of similarity also connects to the arbiter. They say he can't be an arbiter if he's convicted of a crime that makes him unfit to perform this function. Similarity binds to the political criteria, similarity binds to those once convicted of verbal delinquents. It seems to me that some of the pieces that have been kicked out of European practice are being reintroduced here at the small door. However, this is not the case in our legislation and the current power at the small door introduces a similarity to performing public functions. That is why I am against this law too, and I think it would be most comprehensive for the minister to withdraw the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, because it leads only to delay procedures from working relations and its goal is purely political to reject socio-economic tensions that are increasing and increasing every day and are increasing demands and more frequent are the demands of Serbian citizens asking the government to resolve socio-economic status. In this way and the previous law on the socio-economic council, the Serbian government wants to avoid participation in resolving socio-economic problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8410	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8411	Dear People's MPs, I think this is one of the worst laws the government has proposed so far. Of course, bad law, or any law, is bad, which is not in line with the country’s legal system. So this law is in direct contrast with the country's legal system. In fact, it is contrary to many other laws that regulate this area, especially the Labour Law. He is also opposed to the Law on Prosecution. It's one kind of thing, you introduce, admit it or not, a court of joint work where you introduce volunteerism and intricacies. This law is also anti-constitutional. Therefore, the SRS seeks to correct what can be fixed, to save what can be saved, so we have submitted many amendments, so I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 5. The law on peace settlement of the dispute should be deleted, and I quote what should be deleted: "The participants in the conclusion of the collective agreement are free to decide voluntarily on the participation of the peacemaker in collective bargaining". Really inaccurate, unnecessary, superfluous and confusing. This should be deleted in order for Article 5(2) to become Article 1 and it would read: "Parties in the dispute are free to decide voluntarily to join a peaceful dispute settlement if this law is not different".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8412	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. Mr. Ristich, excuse me, I can't see you. It won't be a problem for you, since you're active in sitting in front.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8413	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm sorry that our parliamentary group, when it was distributed to the Assembly, although it wasn't the smallest by number, got a place in the back row, so you can't see me. Such a solution provided for in Article 5. - that the parties to the dispute are free to decide voluntarily on joining a peaceful dispute settlement, if this law is otherwise determined does not mean anything, because this law is very different. It's said to be the principle of tripartism and impartiality, and everything is based on the principle of volunteering, and there's no "d" out of volunteering. As soon as it is said in the law that the parties are free unless otherwise prescribed, and in the next article there is a obligation for the parties to notify the court and to terminate their disputes and to contact the Agency which will determine the arbitration officer to resolve their work dispute if possible, it speaks of the inconsistency and inconsistency of this law. But not only is the law, which has been offered, contradictory and confusing, but it is also contrary to the Law on Prosecution and is contrary to the constitutional principle that citizens are free to have their rights in accordance with the regulations of the law. The restrictions are imposed here and the parties must be pushed into a supposed peaceful dispute settlement. A peaceful solution to disputes implies party consent. So, the desire of the parties in a peaceful way, with a voluntary and consensually chosen personality, which will be the arbitrationist, resolves their work relationship dispute. In this case, it's not possible. In addition, this procedure is flawed because it is restrictive. Because Serbian citizens cannot resolve all their disputes and relationships with work relations. Thus, they cannot resolve in this procedure damage compensation, even if there is a party's consent to obtain damages in a peaceful manner. Or, to establish the termination or reason for the existence or absence of a reason for the termination of a working relationship for some other reason, which is not the fault of the workers. It's, like, a retirement thing. And that is kind of how the working relationship ends, and the parties in this procedure do not have the opportunity to make their demands come true. It is also not possible to resolve the dispute that I was just talking about, when the parties in the dispute consider, let's say the employer has only the right to a minimum fee, to minimum earnings, and the employees, on the contrary, consider that he is entitled to full earnings based on his work. In this way, it is shown that this procedure applies mainly to non-working employees and no pension insurance payments have been made. This means that a very large number of workers, who have disputes over non-payment of contributions to funds, will have to stop their actions before the courts and try to resolve the dispute in a peaceful manner, as provided for by this law. However, the law has shortcomings. Under this law, it is an obligation to choose arbitration and peacemakers by 31 December of this year, and this law enters into force on 1 January, i.e. the obligation to settle the dispute peacefully, for the parties, in 1.01.2005. It is impossible one day to choose peacemakers and arbitres and to leave it to the parties the next day and impose an obligation to report to these arbiters for a peaceful dispute settlement. In addition, no procedure for communication between arbitration and parties is envisaged, but the area should be prescribed by the minister. Such behaviour and such a procedure have not been defined, so it is impossible to expect the parties to resolve their disputes on 1 January 2005 at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8414	Thank you. I ask the MPs to speak of what is on the agenda. It's an amendment. Please, there is no reason to have a principle debate now and to deceive citizens. So it's not the subject of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Bozidar Koprivica has tabled an amendment to Article 5 of this bill and I support the amendment. I think he's in the right place and he needs to be accepted. On the other hand, this is a law that does not provide for absolutely no sanctions. No law can be a law unless there's a sanction. This is the principle of volunteering. So the principle of volunteering is applied under the Labour Act. If the employer is willing to fulfil his obligation, he will execute it beyond this institution. This institution is a failure. It will not in practice have any effectiveness. Therefore, citizens can exercise their rights in regular proceedings before the court or, under the Law on litigation or under the Labour Act. This is just throwing fog into the eyes again or creating an illusion that the government is doing something and making a number of laws. They won't have any idea, and that's why I suggest that this bill be withdrawn. He has no purpose, yes, he has no meaning for the citizens. Secondly, who will make the employer come and settle disputes peacefully? Nobody. If he won't, he won't, you can't hurt him. No party in the dispute, unless they answer the call, will come and go to a regular court. And on the other hand, if the employer wanted a peaceful path to resolve a certain disputed relationship, he would have solved it without a peacemaker and arbiter, but he won't. That's why he'll be forced by the court, and in no way will this fictitious arbiter and peacemaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8416	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when reading the entire Bill on Peaceful Dispute Resolution, the conclusion is that the peacemaker, that is, must have some supernatural powers, some parapsychological skills. In fact, they will need those who do not want to agree with each other and cannot agree, to convince them what their interest is. It's supposed that the parties in the dispute won't know. By the way, I first heard about this law when it was already escalating a strike at Jugormedia. At that time, someone from the government said that a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, which will resolve this and that such work disputes will not take place in the future. However, the fact is that whoever is an arbiter or a peacemaker, and you will see in the transitional and final provisions that very difficult all this by the New Year's Eve, as foreseen by the law, that so many peacemakers, or the arbiters, will be asked and the question above all is whether they will be interested in such a number, that they will have to be magicians and that they will have to engage in a conflict in which the employer and employees find themselves to convince both sides. If employees dissatisfied with their incomes decide to go on strike, the peacemaker will have an obligation to convince employees that they are better off working without pay, working without being paid or working and receiving low wages or having to convince the employer that he is better off, that is, in his interest to raise salaries to the employees. They won't convince either. First, it won't convince the employer that he's better off raising salaries for employees because there's a huge number of unemployed people and there's a lot of competition. The employer will be able to fire him at any time, whoever asks him to raise his salary, under this Labour Act. There's so much competition in the labour market that they'll always get those who agree to work for that kind of pay, at least for a certain time. Therefore, it would be best to do what Mr. Petar Jojic suggests, if you would really withdraw this law. All of this shows that the sole purpose of this law is not to resolve work disputes, but to establish another agency. No other purpose, I guarantee, this law does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8418	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? (No. Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS considers the amendment of Ms. Verica Radete's MP to be in place and that it should be accepted, because the SRS is against such agencies that cost the state and how much. Since we have proposed that this amendment be adopted and this member deleted, I would point out that, in the light of this law, among other things, page 5 states that "for the implementation of this law the funds will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia". What kind of means are these? These are the 2005 funds of 10 million dinars. It's a budget-only asset. What are we gonna do with those funds when the agency collects a favor? Where are those funds? These funds are absolutely not shown here, and that is an additional burden on parties in the process. If you consider the amount of disability and pensions, and the invalid is 850,000 in this country, out of these 10 million, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, you can pay for 2,000 pensions or disability. Let's not. There's a lot of agencies. There's a lot of institutions. Again, just bureaucracy and nothing else. In the pocket of taxpayers again!- I'm sorry. This government doesn't pay. They pay the tax collectors from Zlatibor, Tara, Malena, Povlena, from Subotica, Zrenjanin, Vladic Han, Nis etc. So, they're paying the citizens of this country. It costs a lot of bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8420	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. I hope the citizens of Marjan won't pay, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8421	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I believe that the establishment of a government public agency like this is completely unnecessary and that it leads only to an increase in costs. But on the other hand, it might be useful for coalition partners because it opens up a lot of opportunities for people to be employed because budget funds are being spent. Given the number of labour disputes being conducted in Serbia, I do not know what number of arbitarians and peacemakers will be in this agency. How much compensation will it take to pay those peacemakers and the arbitrationists? Which rooms will be provided for the work of the Republic's dispute resolution agency? If you have thousands of working disputes in Serbia that are ongoing, if you have hundreds of those who fall under this law and peacefully resolve labour-based disputes – I think it is impossible, without suffocation, without drag, to solve the problems of the citizens that they have in relation to work disputes. The formation of a republican agency in this way is contrary to the bill, which we will discuss in the next day. We, ladies and gentlemen and citizens of Serbia, have a bill on public agencies. This agency is a public agency. It's funded from the budget. It's another imposition on the cost of citizens. On the other hand, it seems to me that the only desire to prevent citizens of Serbia, who have problems I have been talking about, which are hundreds of thousands in Serbia, was officially released yesterday, cannot resolve their rights based on the work through competent courts, from their employers, from companies that did not pay them those debts in the relevant funds. How will this agency work? The Director will be appointed by the Government, and the Director will be able to choose and place arbitration when parties in the dispute disagree with the persons of the arbitration panel or if they cannot agree voluntarily on the person of the arbitration officer. Once again, we have the state mixed up in relations between the parties, which can only be done by the court. There's no independence here, no independence, so there won't be any impartiality. In those disputes where a large number of employees appear in relation to companies whose business the government is interested in, it will appoint an arbitration officer in the event of conflicts in the interests between employees and employers, on the list of obedient and similar, as defined in one of the next members. It's that arbiter can only be a face that's similar to that function. What is a similarity, which are conditions for similarity, this law is not prescribed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8422	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8423	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I have submitted several amendments that rely on each other. The first amendment is to Article 7. In Article 7. The bill adds Article 2 which reads: "The work, organisation and management of the agencies are subject to rules on public agencies". The draft law on public agencies should also be adopted at this session. Since it is in the process of adopting a draft law on public agencies, that is why I have proposed this amendment, because the work of the agency will be regulated by this law, which we will adopt in the voting day, at this session. If this amendment concerns the work of the Agency, the second amendment relating to the same matter, the title above Article 9. "The Director of the Agency" and Article 9 are deleted, as is Article 55(1), where it is said that the Government will appoint the Director of the Agency within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, is deleted because the Agency would be subject to the law on public agencies. So all three of these amendments apply to this amendment. I think she's logical and could be accepted by the government, or by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8424	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8425	Mr. President, MPs, I think it is important to support the amendments submitted by the DS parliamentary group and Mr. Milan Stanimirovic. As much as you are interested in having a debate and the adoption of such an important law, the fact that you are presently in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia speaks enough. I hope that according to the Rules of Procedure, as an authorised representative of the DS, I could ask for a check of the quorum at this point in the National Assembly and ask the President to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8426	You're absolutely right. Thank you. I ask the MPs to check the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Apparently, there are no MPs of the DS and the SRS. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. [[After break - 19.45]] We're continuing our work. I ask the MPs that at the beginning of the session, in order to determine the quorum, they insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. By applying the electronic system, we find that 82 MPs are present in the O.R. Since I can't believe it, because they're hired a lot more, we're going to move on to a calling to determine if it's true. I doubt the correctness of the system. Avramov Mita - not here, Anastasovski Dragoljub - not there, Priđelković Zoran - not there, Antić Zoran - not there, Arsić Veroljub - not there, Adžić Slobodan - present, Banović Donka - present, Baralić Rajko - not there, Belić Milorad - not there, Beretić Anita - not there, Bošnjak Branka - not present, Bušetić Toma - not there, Vešinović Milan - not there, Vladimirović Živan - not there, Vlatović Mika - not there, Gajić Gordana - not there, Vuković Rodović - not there, Vušović - not here, Vužanović Dragović - not here, Vučić - not there is not here, Gajić Gordan - not here, Gačević Rodović - is not there, Gačić Rodović - not here, Žilić - is not here, Žilić - not here, Žilić - not here, Žulić - not there is not there, Žulić - not here, Žović - not here, Žović - not there is not there is not here, Žović - Žović, Žulić - not here, Živić - not here, Živić - Žurić - Žurić - not here, Žurić - not here, Žurić - not here, Ž. Mr Krasic is here, I'm sorry, I didn't see you - I called you by mistake as if you weren't here, and you're here, Mr Krasic, we'll fix it right now. Stojanović Svetlana - not there, Stojanović-Plasić Snezana - present, Stojljković Dejan - present, Takac Istvan - not present, Tanasijević Zoran - not there, Teodorović Radovan - not there, Tintor Stojan - not present, Todorović Jovan - not present, Todorović Nikola - not there, Tomašević Vukosav - present, Tomić Vojkan - present, Tomić Željko - present, Tosić Branislav - not present, Tosković Vuceta - not present, Čirković Zoran - present, Urošević Sava - present, Homan Vladimir - present, Cvetanović Petar - not present, Cvetković Petar - present, Cvetković Zovan - not there, Čavin Lazar - not there, Čeković Savić - not present, Škrjan Škrjan Škrić - not here, Nekran Škran Žurić - No. I've called those who are in constant labor. Of course, the Assembly is responsible enough and MPs are responsible enough for the money they receive from citizens to do their job for the benefit of the citizens. That's not controversial. Now we're going to have deputies who aren't on permanent duty who are present. Mrs. Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović came in. In addition to the appointed Members of Parliament who are on permanent duty, I call on MPs who are not on permanent duty. We're in no hurry, we're paid to work here. Aligrudić Miloš - present, Alimpić Zoran - not there, Anastasovski Dragoljub was there, Andrić Vladimir - there is, Antonijević Dr Vuko - there is, Belic Milorad - not there, Bečić Igor - officially absent, Blažić Branislav - there is, Bogdanović Mr Nenad - not there, Bošanovic Branka - there is, Bukić Radojle - there is, Vlačić Mika - there is, Vojić- Marković Milica - there is not there, Vuksanovic Dragan - there is not there, Vučelić Milorda - there is not there, Vučić - there is not there, Vučin Štak - there is not there, Vućević Živić - there is not there, there is no Mražan Živić, Dragaživić - it is not there is not there, there is not here, Daja Živožović - there is not there, Dacin Živožina, there is no, Dječin Živožović, Dović. - Not there, Lalić Vesna - present, Lalić Nikola, Lalović Slobodan - there is, Lekić Zivadin - not there, Mamula Đorđe - there is, Marinković Srboljub - not there, Marić Miroljub - yes, Markić Miroslav, Marković Milan - not there, Marković Momir - not there, Marković Predrag - not there, Mikavica Dejan - there is not there, Martic Miroslav - there is not here, Matić Slavović Slavović Vladimir - present, Milentević Vladimir - present, Milivojević Ksenja - presence, Milković Dragosa - there is not there, Mikavica Dejan - there is not there, Milajić Vojsažažar, Miljović - not there is not there, Mirović, Mirović - there is not here, Mirović. Please, I've called Ninić Milan, come in, I didn't sign you up. Slobodan Pajovic - not there, Palalic Jovan - is not there. Let's see what else we got. Is there anyone else I haven't read yet? Please, one moment, Petrovic Dragan - there you are. I did not read Mr. Novakovic, then Srboljub Jamic - there you are. Who else haven't I read? Cabric Gordana, thank you. Chonjagic Sovranier? Just a moment, please, who have I not read yet? Mr. Stamenkovic, excuse me, it's Miodrag Stamenkovic. Please, let's just count it. Since 86 MPs are present, and since our electronic system is out of service, we are continuing to work. I ask the authorities to take all measures, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, against the MPs who were reported to be here and we couldn't find them. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Has someone reported to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Nemanja Sarovic is not there. We called you, I'm really sorry. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. And Nemanja Sarovic is here? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8428	A member of the 100th was injured, not only by the National Assembly, but also by those who had common sense and who watched this transmission. It was clear that there were not enough MPs here, that the number was insufficient, and you were reportedly calling the first Members of the Parliament on permanent work, and then everyone else, so you even asked those who were there to report to you who you didn't call. Another thing, Mr Markovic, when you called the MPs, you were obliged to call those who "are" MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia! Your lists suck! You also called out some who were not messengers, and some who were messengers did not call. Update a little list, then try again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8429	I thank Mr. Sarovic. Please update the lists. Fortunately, of course there were no MPs who were absent, such as happiness, since the electronic system is obviously not correct, but the camera is correct and I think it's visible with the naked eye that there are more than 80 MPs in the room. To Article 8. ... Are you satisfied with the explanation? No, thank you. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Please, we're doing business. The Rules of Procedure again? The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8430	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the president of the National Assembly is trying to be funny. To be honest, sometimes it goes with his hand, but tonight it's really more than just sad. For the simple reason that the alleged majority in this assembly asked for the time to be discussed, the amendments to the two laws in question, to be extended. Mr. President, under Article 107. The Rules of Procedure I intervene on this time, not only do you not have authority, not only are you not able to normalize the Assembly majority to work and behave in the Assembly Hall as is appropriate to the MPs, but you are trying to force us to do so, of course, all the time in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you are not trained enough to manage the electronic system, that you ignore the fact that there are more cards than living persons in the hall that are MPs, that's your problem. But try, because what kind of a majority of you have chosen, is that on the basis of article 107. Rules of Procedure, create the possibility and conditions to work here normally. Circles, walking, standing next to one or another wall, uninterrupted laughter, as if it were a ridiculous Olympics most resorted to by the head of a parliamentary group here is something that is inappropriate and that you had to react to in the last two and a half hours. Since you let them get their own chain-packs, since you let them get a little bit stronger and fresh, get back from the meeting you expected, you still want to usurp the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this way. If that is what you want, if you think you can just come to an end with us, be sure that by each amendment, every member, or MP from now on, will come out and use his right of five minutes. And you will sit here as long as it takes, and be sure that every time we go out, it won't be so funny to either of the other heads of Parliament here, for the simple reason that it was clear eight months ago that you've been collected by a stake and a rope, that you depend on each other, that no peaceful solution to any dispute can. (Dušan Prophetovic from the place: What kind of dictionary is that? ) Mr. Prophet, shut up. I'm saying now, when you want to address the Assembly and ask for a word, you have to behave, if you're Kostunica's "younger" or the ruling supposed majority here, you need to know what's the order and order in the highest assembly body. Therefore, be so polite and report to the Rules of Procedure, replicate, do whatever you want, but be sure that we will no longer suffer your insolence and the fact that in this way you forge the alleged presence of the majority in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8432	Of course, replica, I just owe you an explanation. So perhaps the MPs didn't understand, Article 107 reads, "If the president of the National Assembly can't maintain order on a regular basis at the session, it will set a break in the duration needed to establish order." So, in accordance with this article, the President of the Assembly, who was elected by only 150 MPs, you are absolutely right, what kind of majority, in relation to the regular measures provided for by this Rules of Procedure, has set up order and I thank all the MPs who helped. Are you satisfied with the clarification? You're not. In the voting day, the Assembly will declare itself. Ambassador Dusan Prorokovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, is a replica of Ms Natasa Jovanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8433	First of all, I don't think anyone has the right to call the MPs "from the stake and the rope". If someone is collected from the "brake and rope" then dress as if he were a guest in the "grand parade" rather than an MP in the Serbian Parliament. I think it's still disrespect for the Rules of Procedure and that they draw cards from identification units and that MPs are hiding here like they're playing hide-and-seek -- it's not like that to the National Assembly. I appeal to all those who do so to make themselves known, to try to do their job with maximum responsibility, not to use their time to take advantage of five minutes, as we are told, but to try to help them pass the law or to prevent their arguments to pass the law, to make this congregation look like the congregations in all orderly democratic systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8434	You can't go to the same parliamentary group, Mrs Stojacic first. JESUS (from the city): But you have given me a word! I didn't. I asked you if it was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8436	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8437	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8438	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting by article 101, saying that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. This applies to Mr. President and to you, but also to all the MPs who carry out their parliamentary duties in this House and who also address us as MPs, but to all the citizens of Serbia for this speaker. In addition to previous speakers, I would like to point out the violation by Mr Albianic, who asked as an authorised representative of the G17 parliamentary group plus to extend and vote on extending the work of the National Assembly, and then packed his belongings and left this parliament. I think it is one of the more serious violations and abuse of rights, and I think it is simply the President of the Assembly, but also all MPs, if they vote for an extension of the work, and especially if it votes on his personal request, that they are obliged to sit in parliament, respect the applicants of the amendments, all parliamentary groups, and ultimately respect the minister sitting here and explain the law that is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8439	Thank you. Since it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I owe you an explanation. Ambassador Albianic spoke to the speaker of the assembly because he is visiting Study B, where he explains the reasons for the adoption of laws on the National Assembly and the responsibility of MPs. Here you go. It's a replica. Mr. Momchilov, you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8440	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, I am reporting for a replica of the presentation of fellow Prophetic, who called for a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8441	It was a replica of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8442	A group of SRSs was also called. Some of them hide like mice, you gave yourself the freedom to judge how to dress, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8443	Mr. Momchilov, it's a replica. No one mentioned the MPs of the SRS. I recognized Mr. Vukelic in that, but he's not there. So it's okay. There's no basis for replication. I'm not discussing it. You told me there'd be a replica and you'd give me a basis. Give me the basis for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8444	To the presentation of Mr. Prophetic...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8445	He didn't call Serbian radicals to hide in corners, he didn't say the name of any party, and we can check the stenogram. Be kind or call on something that allows a replica. You don't think the Serbian radicals were hiding in the halls. Please check the stenogram, it's not correct, I listen carefully to the MPs. It's not right to make up replicas. Here, it's not about games, please be respectful of the Assembly as well. There's no reason to make up leads that don't exist. Mr. Prophetovic did not mention any party, it is quite clear, by name and last name. Please -- I don't know what it is. Be kind, we don't have the basis to give you a replica or report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8446	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 81. The last attitude says that the Assembly can only work extremely long. You've turned this congregation into a vampire assembly. At night, the human organism can endure eight hours of work. I'm a doctor and I have a right to say it. People came here from the inside, stood up at three, at four o'clock in the morning from the far end to come to this session. What are you doing? You're exhausting people to discuss very important laws in this country unqualityly so that they can quickly implement some laws that I think are very suspicious of when it's done this way. No meeting here, no session started on time. Every day, now I know you're doing it on purpose, exhausting us MPs. We've been here since 9.30, session starts at 11.00. The afternoon session began with an hour and 15 minutes late and so on day after day. If it is extraordinary, then it means that it is done in an extraordinary way, it is not daily and it is not repeated as often as it is done in this House. Therefore, this becomes a vampire parliament, and these verbal games of yours and jumps serve you honorably. That's it. I mean, who's going to take responsibility for himself that in the late hours of 13.00 hours spent in these rooms he can judge normally and speak normally, I'll congratulate him. This assembly is becoming irregular.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8447	I thank the People's Messenger of Momchilov, and I beg you, I have warned you, and you have misused the pay phone again. Article 81, last position, as you say, probably... Please, it is not correct, the final position is, "The extraordinary session of the National Assembly can be held on another day if"... So he doesn't speak at all in the situation where we are, it's not the second day, this is the same day that regulates the position of 1st, so Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Here you go, replica. You have no reason, none of us, to abuse a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8448	Thank you, to remind you, this is a replica of Mrs. Stojacic's exposure. I'll take the opportunity to respond as deputy head of the G17 Group, plus to the accusation the lady made. As far as Mr Albianic is concerned, he is, as you have heard, justifiably absent. The extension of the work, Mr Albianic, requested as head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. The G17 plus MP group, as you can see tonight, and every day, here in the hall has been present since the beginning of our work, since 10.00 in the morning, and it's a very interesting picture for the media, and I invite them to follow it, and the electronic system can certainly show it. The G17 plus MP group, in full composition, is here every morning at 10.00, and so it will be in the future. The G17 Plus MP and tonight is present in full composition, I must say, except for the justifiably absent Mr Albianic and Mr Lazarevic, all the other MPs are present tonight and working. They are responsible for the citizens of Serbia who have chosen them here, are ultimately responsible for the money that Serbian citizens single for our work, as we all have, regardless of whether we belong to the ruling coalition or belong to the opposition. We are all responsible, not to do most, but to the citizens of Serbia for the money they pay us. So the G17 Plus MP group is ready tonight and tonight and every day and every night to do the responsible work we've been chosen for here. They should think about others who are in constant labor, who are constantly absent, either because the electronic system is not working or because they are not really physically present in the hall. , those who seek quorum and then come out of the hall and all others who are irresponsible to the money of the citizens and the expectations of the citizens that they have from all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8449	Replication on the replica? According to the Rules of Procedure, I am sorry, Snezana Lakicevic Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8450	It's infringed. It's a 100-year-old. The Rules of Procedure say the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. As far as I know on the agenda, it wasn't a marketing campaign G17 plus, or who it was, when and if hours...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8451	Please, there was a replica on the agenda and the president has the right to determine whether the conditions for replication have been met. That's what's done. That was on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8452	Of course, under Article 100, the President of the Assembly may interrupt MPs only in exceptional cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8453	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8454	Which happens more often to you than the Rules of Procedure foresees, and so do you, too, very often violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, I question the fact that electronic devices do not work, because as far as I can see, when we insert the card, they are recorded. Also, please explain why the direct transmissions of this session of the National Assembly are interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8455	What? Please, just a moment, excuse me, please. Well, she said Mrs. Stojacic, I can't stop her, although you're absolutely right. [[He speaks to Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic who is seeking a replica.]] I have the right to break my rules of procedure when it does not stick to the agenda, so when it lists a member who is not injured and proves it is not. But I didn't mean to interrupt. There's no reason, just please, is it true there's no TV transmission at the moment? Please make sure he's not here. (Glasses – no need to check. Please, how is there no need? I like to check everything out. That's why we checked on how many there are. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8456	Instead of transferring the National Assembly, basketball is on the move, and I wanted to suggest to you, Mr. Chairman, that until you provide a broadcast through the state television channel, stop the work of the Assembly and take a break. Then we'll move on. It's a very serious law and amendments. You as a man who respects the right of the Serbian public to see what's going on here, what's being said, are likely to take my advice and take a break in the work. Because of the general public, because the transmission was interrupted at the moment when Mr. Prophetovic spoke in his enthusiasm for this speaker, I will repeat what I said, of course, that the entire public could make a comparison and also because of the fact that Mr. Prophetovic, besides what he should do, is that he is using his right to participate in the adoption of these laws, it is not working, and since there is no current transfer we, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, can face the fact. My impression is that Mr. Prophetic, apart from having such a performance, at least leaves me with the impression of a real-socialist-Communist period, that's what he looks like and he acts like...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8457	Please, without flirting with each other, among MPs, speak of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8458	Well, don't, it's probably a compliment to Mr. Prophetovic, and that's true, Mr. Prophetovic, since for a time, you've been in the enthusiasm of the "post-five-octoctobar" revolution, as you called it, being an MP here and I've known you since that period, what I can see, with that kind of choice of your standing, is that you have at least 10 kilos more than that period. Therefore, you as a young man and as a politician would have to focus first and foremost on the fact that you need to be in a healthy physical strength, in condition, and that as such you participate in lawmaking. And not to use the assembly pay phone mostly to insult, to demean your political opponents, because I need to remind you of the fact that once three years ago you confused me with someone. Unfortunately, this is not funny, because that is how it all started, on the night when the government, with the blessing of your President Vojislav Kostunica, the then DOS kidnapped former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and took him to The Hague, you went out and said, that at that time, the Hague caset, where it has been for a year and eight months and the president of our SRS, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, "were taking the idea leader of Serbian radicals". As you've mixed me up with someone then, you've probably been saying before about who I don't know about or anything, so it's my warm advice, because you haven't learned anything in the past four years, to focus on who the MPs are, what who's doing it -- and my impression is, about you and your standing, because right now I'm looking at you, and so can he not change.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8459	Ms. Jovanovic, please, since a member of the 100th is explicit and says, excuse me, I know you quoted him, but he says something else, he says – that it is not allowed to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. You've given a three-time evaluation of the weight of the MPs... Please, and about how you've been tracking his body weight for years. I don't think that's correct. I don't think it's correct. It's a private matter. MPs who want to talk about it, they bring it out in public, but there's no reason for others to call it. So it's exhausted, please, no, no, no. Thank you. (Employer Prophetic asks for a word. ) Please, Mr. Prophetic, you have received compliments, you have received admiration, return it collegiately. There's no reason for the Rules of Procedure, is there, be kind. (Employer Prophetkovic continues to insist. ) Replica, MP Prophetovic. Here you are, a replica due to the name mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8460	First of all, I don't think you're the person who should be talking about my physical condition or assessing my physical condition. Secondly, I've learned a lot more from the president of your party than you have. You know, when I entered the Serbian Parliament in 2001, I knew I knew little about congregation work. I've tried to learn something from older colleagues, I'm not ashamed to say it, from both the SPS people and the SRS people. I think I learned a lot from the president of your party. It would be good for all MPs to learn that in some situations they react the way he reacts, no offense, slander, disdain for their political opponents. Third, I haven't mentioned anyone in a single word. What I said was an allegory. If anyone in the whole story is recognized, it's his problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8461	Allegories and illusions are allowed by the Rules of Procedure. We continue our work under Article 8. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Before I ask if anyone wants to talk about the amendment, the word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm informing the Assembly that I've been informed by the secretary, you're right, there's no TV transmission at the moment, and we've intervened for the public. Since we all care about making arguments publicly and making the best laws as soon as possible, so we have no reason to obstruct, it's important for us to work, and right now I'm going to intervene to get the transfer back, to see what's wrong, because I think it's important for the transmission to be. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8462	Mr. Markovic, I'd like to ask you to stay and answer me, it would be best if you were to return the time first. Mr. Markovic, the electronic system doesn't work, so you can measure it manually. Mr. Markovic, you have injured a member of 82 talking about opening a session and participating in a session. Since you personally did it, I don't think it would be right to leave the vice president to correct your mistakes. In fact, Article 5's position in 82 says that if the electronic voting system is not in place, which is being notified by the president of the National Assembly by the MPs, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs. So, you have not, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and especially not on the basis of Article 217 you have called upon, had the opportunity to ask by calling to determine who is present and who is not present. So, if the electronic system didn't work, you could only ask to count the MPs. Paragraph 7 states: "If the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of a quorum determined by the count of the MPs, he may request that the quorum be determined by the call of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search." No president, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has expressed doubts about the number of MPs identified by the count, because the count was neither, and you couldn't do it yourself, and this is what the Assembly had previously to declare without a search, so neither has it done. That is why I suggest you return and set a break in accordance with Article 96, in order to remove the consequences of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8463	Thank you. I acted on the Rules of Procedure. I have not expressed any doubt in the existence of a quorum. Is anyone reporting on this amendment? The word is Veroljub Arsic. We have a problem with the electronic system, don't worry, I'm monitoring the monitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8464	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to point out a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, to Article 100, 101, 169, paragraph 1. These provisions of the 100th and 101s concern the dignity of the National Assembly, and you insulted the entire National Assembly when you claimed to have a quorum, that the electronic system was incorrect, and then MP Nemanja Sarovic asked to report to the Rules of Procedure. You looked him in the eye and said he wasn't here, and before that, you claimed that the electronic system wasn't right. It's cynicism, at least. Gentlemen, you who have appeared here and called MPs from the opposition why they hide in the halls - we are not hiding at all. You should be ashamed, because it is you who should provide a quorum for work in this Serbian Parliament that you do not expect the opposition to do so to you. That's what you did when you were the opposition, you also blew the quorum. Now, from this pay phone, it's more in the opposition's hall than the parliamentary majority, who made that decision to work tonight. When it comes to breach of Rules of Procedure in respect of Rule 169. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether you will determine the technical reasons why this continuation of the session is not still public that Serbian citizens can see what Parliament is doing here, is not a reason not to interrupt until the transfer is established.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8465	I thank you. You don't think I'm the one who called Mr. Sarovic by electronics. No, we called, you weren't in the O.R. So we called out the MPs so we knew if they were there and we knew who wasn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8466	The truth is that the opposition should not be obliged to give a quorum to the ruling majority when deciding on a question. However, there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we should all respect. These provisions of the Rules of Procedure speak about how this congregation is concerned and how the presence of MPs in this congregation is identified. Those provisions of the opposition, as well as the ruling majority, must be respected. So you can make obstructions of parliament's work, using business provisions, but you can't behave in such a way that, by violating business provisions, you're making that obstruction. Imagine what it looked like, when it was still being transmitted, maybe it was now established, which would be good if it were, when an authorised representative of an authorised group is asking for a quorum to be determined and immediately behind it flees the O.R., what does it look like? What it looks like when members of another parliamentary group, the SRS, when determining the quorum, come out of the O.R., and then when it is determined that this quorum exists through the count, suddenly enters the same hall and so on, several times, whenever they think of anything. That's what your behavior is, and it's not good, but it's going to judge those who watch the broadcast. If the transmission's gone now, it's a real shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8467	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Veroljub Arsic. I can't tell the difference between MPs in position and opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8468	Mr. Chairman, I don't know what was going on in your head back then, but it's obvious you've seen Ambassador Nemanja Sarovic. First you wanted to give him your word, and then you told the MPs he wasn't here. You apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8469	Mr. Veroljub, I have given the People's Messenger my word and there is no reason to discuss this further. He used that word in the best possible way, as he will now that you're done, by telling me what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8470	You're interrupting me right now, Mr. Chairman. You gave me an answer to my statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure. And I now say, since I was an eyewitness, what was happening in the congregation, that you offended the dignity of the National Assembly, because you told the People's Parliament in the eyes that it was not there. You can say whatever you want, that's how you did it. Whether you wanted to be funny or a goal was quite different to you, I don't know, but don't insult the MPs, especially when you don't need an electronic system, especially since the ruling majority is constantly calling for compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and your side is full of cards, and there is no MP. You've also violated it, Mr. Chairman, because you've been obliged to organize a service that will monitor whether any MP has forgotten the card or not. No matter how incorrect the electronic system is, the card can't be in front of where the MP doesn't sit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8471	The system doesn't work, so the cards aren't functional. You're absolutely right. There is a word from MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8472	Mr. Markovic, you've also injured article 96. The Rules of Procedure, which says that, the President of the National Assembly, is obliged to make an explanation following the violation of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure by some MPs. I've listed to you not only a member who's been injured, but I've also cited the attitudes that have been injured. So it's about article 82 of the 5th and 7. After that, you gave no explanation. You said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not an explanation. I demand that you give me an explanation as to whether, in your opinion, an injured member of the 82nd century 5th and 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8473	Thank you. You're absolutely right to insist. I really didn't give you both an explanation. I gave an explanation according to attitude 7, and by attitude 5, I didn't. I'm sorry. To understand what this is about, Article 5 states - if the electronic voting system is not in place, which is being notified by the President of the National Assembly by the MPs, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs. It's a great pleasure to inform you, we just did it until you were present. Please, we called, and then we counted the names. Thank you. Are you satisfied with the explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8474	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8475	You're not, all right, the Assembly will declare themselves on Voting Day. There's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8476	Please, this assembly and this session are absolutely irregular. This turns into a circus and a fair. Please stop working like this. This is neither a position nor an opposition to honor. Please stop if you can with your cynicism. I was a member of 81st challenged: "Sessions of the National Assembly at which legislation proposals are held, development plans" and, not to mention everything, it says, "in general and in particular, they are held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in time from 10.00 to 1800 hours with one hour interruption". I said, in Section 3, you have an exception and I called it an exception. We're in a regular session. The laws that have been given are in regular procedure. What you're doing, you're making a circus out of the congregation and it's illegal. The physiological limits for normal thinking and man's work are eight hours, Mr. President. That's what a kid in an eight-year-old school knows. You resent us, you call it a substitute. You say radicals are making obstructions. We're doing a quorum obstruction, and we don't have to do it. When it's debated, we are the most numerous, the most present today. Therefore, radicals work, debate laws, try to offer some of their own solutions that they think are good, and do not participate in the work. This is the way you demean Parliament. This way is scandalous, this is a vampire assembly and, please, come to your senses. It's clear to us that you deliberately interrupted this transmission, because it's not appropriate for you to see what's going on here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8477	Mr. Momchilov, I owe you an explanation. The third attitude you've quoted is...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8478	Position One says that, by 6:00, you're working, with an hour's break. That's what I was quoting.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8479	That's right. You said the exception was attitude three. Paragraph 3 reads: "The President of the National Assembly sets the voting days after the debate on all points of the agenda." So it doesn't apply in any way to this. Please be nice, of course, I'm ready to check on what's wrong with the TV feed. That's what I'll do if there's still no TV transmission. I've been asked by your MP to stay. One more thing, please. I never said that any party here is obstructing. On the contrary, I also argued publicly that the political right to obstruction is the most normal political right and you have no reason to accuse me of such a thing. Please, I never talk about the MPs of a party. I'm talking about MPs of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8480	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8481	Can I get you a new breach of the Rules of Procedure or an explanation? I'm asking you clearly, is any new member of the Rules of Procedure injured, or is the clarification, not satisfied with the explanation?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8482	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8483	It's a business thing. A new breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Nemanja Sarovic. Be kind, explain to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8484	Mr. Markovic, a member of 96, says that the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. I don't know where you're coming from with the idea that you're asking me to answer from the scene which member was injured. So here, Mr. Markovic, there is a pay phone and a member of 98 says, "No one should approach the speaker until the president of the National Assembly allows it. No one can speak at the National Assembly session before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly." You're making me break the Rules of Procedure and throw myself out of the bench, explain to you from the bench that a member of the Rules of Procedure is injured so that you can give me a previous permit. So it's a prior examination of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you do, and only if you estimate that the injured Rules of Procedure are giving me your word. When you give me your word, I no longer have to go out, if you estimate that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. The point of Article 96 is to get three minutes within which I will explain how, in my opinion, the injured Rules of Procedure. After that, you have the opportunity to give me an answer in accordance with Article 96(5) of the Rules of Procedure, and I have the possibility, if I am not satisfied, to return to this pay phone and to say, I am not satisfied, I want the Parliament in the Day of Vote to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing is, you violated article 82 because you say counting MPs has been done. Counting has not been done, the call of MPs has been made, and it has been called only by those who are in constant work in the congregation. Afterwards, those who are not in full - time service were also called. Those who are not messengers have also been called. Mr Goran Jocic was named, who resigned last week as a member of the National Assembly. You should know that as president of the National Assembly. Mr. Suleiman Spaho, whose mandate has been verified afterwards, has not been called. So you're going back to the old practice of calling citizens. Do you want citizens to make decisions for you? It's a good thing, gentlemen, because when it's done that way, when the governing structure, there's over 130 of you here, it's asking the opposition to do the quorum, that means only one thing, and that, gentlemen, is that the end is near to you!
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8485	Thank you. The second time I owe an explanation, first after this injury, and then about the request that the MP made 20 minutes ago. Not you, the other People's Messenger brought it up. So, please, there is no other way by the member you quoted, and it is according to the consolidated text which, after the Constitutional Court's decision, says, "If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the statement that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on this issue in the day of the vote." I have no way of knowing if it's a new injury or if it's an attempt to continue the discussion, which the Rules of Procedure does not provide for this article. There's no discussion on the same injury. Although I stayed here to help each other, to continue to work by law, I learned information about TV transmissions, and I am obliged to pass it on to everyone. So, there's a contract that Radio TV has to broadcast football games, which is why there's no transmission on the second channel. I have been asked by the Directorate of Television to make a phone call, to ask if the MPs insist on terminating the show on the first programme and to include the transmission. I think it's an interview with Mr. Nikolic or something. I'll go and check it out. I'll bet he doesn't break up. According to the Rules of Procedure, the people's messenger to Natasha John.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8486	Mr. President, I don't think you've heard well and that RTS's director has in no way recommended that you ask the MPs, because you ask us and ask at least a million and a half Serbian citizens what is important to them at this time, it is important to see the most unreputed and popular politician in the country today, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. Since you can't and can't conduct that kind of poll, it's been conducted in the elections and that result will be better and better, it's yours to, as president of the Assembly, with the fact that you've extended the work, and that RTS has, and that I'm correcting you, the obligation to pass on the basketball game, the Red Star basketball club plays with some Italian club. It is very important that citizens, especially those directly concerned by this law and these amendments, be familiar with what this is about. In order not to act in the manner of your predecessor, so as not to use as an excuse the reason why there is no transmission and in this way to continue the session of the National Assembly, almost an hour ago, time passes so quickly, and there would be no of all these replicas and this whole new circle, to end the work of the Assembly and to invite the MPs to come tomorrow and to continue to work when the TV broadcast is provided. By that time, you will hear a little bit better what the RTS people are telling you, and by then probably passions will be quieted down, and MPs, as Dr. Paja Momchilov said, will be quite ready to work on a new working day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8487	Your findings are correct. I'm sorry if I mistranslated, but it's a basketball game. So, all I've got is technical data on what's going on on the first and second programs. Of course, no one asked me to ask the MPs, but I asked, as I listened to the MPs and not to intervene before, but to stay for an hour and talk. It was a request from the MPs for a pay phone. We're continuing our work. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment to Article 8? Here you are, Petar Jojic, so Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I really can't listen to your speech anymore, I have to go intervene and see if it's possible to secure a transmission or if I have to interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8488	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, due to the new circumstances, this session should be interrupted. This session should be interrupted, because this is not effective and there is no point in further running, if you have in mind that tomorrow you need to continue your work. This isn't some effect, this isn't some law that we're trying very hard to bring around. This doesn't look like a voluntary fire company with its own standards. We'd better stop the session, come work tomorrow. You won't achieve anything with this. I suggest you put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-09-0.u8489	Dear MPs, since there is no TV transmission at this hour and no possibility, due to the programmed scheme of Serbian Television, I thank all of you who are at your post before and afternoon, but I cannot allow the work of this assembly to continue without public transmission. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. In the future, we will work exclusively on the Rules of Procedure, as we have so far. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Before work begins, please determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. In the meantime, I'd like to inform you that, according to official records, 128 are present. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Meko Omerović Gordana Komic, Dejan Rajcic; late Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC RESOURCES OF WORK(s) I convey the apology of the Secretary-General, who is late for the beginning of this work, for talks with employees "intentional", but the Commissioner is present. Article 8 of the amendment was tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the government, did not accept this amendment, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Issues, proposing that this amendment not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Milan Stanimirovic has submitted an amendment, proposing that the title above article 9 and article 9 be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests that this amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Stevovic has submitted an amendment, proposing that the title above article 9 be deleted if article 9 is amended. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs suggests not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristić.
