ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, good afternoon, I thank you for your confidence. Allow me to open the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. According to official records, 194 MPs attend. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has announced the absence of MP Goran Svilanovic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005 as soon as possible. You have received the resignations of Emilija Krstic and Dragisa Djokovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Articles 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments establishes the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament on the day of their resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the elections ended, for MPs Emilia Krstic and Dragisa Djokovic, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of the resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. You were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 13, 14, 18, 19, 21, 26 and 27 October and on 2 November 2004 and the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 2 November 2004. As 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. First, I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 13, 14, 18, 19, 21, 26 and 27 October and 2 November 2004. For 125, they did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 13, 14, 18, 19, 21, 26 and 27 October and 2 November 2004. Secondly, I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 2 November 2004. For 125, it did not vote 34 out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held on 2 November 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda by emergency procedure. 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the election of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 November 2004, should be put on the agenda. Here, the Deputy Prime Minister confirms that the government is withdrawing an emergency procedure proposal, i.e. we will adopt this item of the agenda in the regular procedure. Since we have come to the conclusion of this proposal, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 128, it did not vote 46 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the 2005 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with a Memorandum of Budget, Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2005, with projections for 2006 and 2007 and proposals for decisions to give consent to the 2005 financial plans: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Activities, (g) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, (d) the National Employment Service. 2. A bill on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 205 MPs. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. The 2005 Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy, with the 2006 and 2007 projections and the proposals for a decision to give consent to the 2005 financial plans, is under consideration. You have received the bill of law, with the Memorandum and the motions for decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Goran Knezevic, Snezana Lakićić-Stojačić, Dusan Petrović, Milorad Krstin, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Mirđević, Milovan Radovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Nemanja Šarović, Igor Bečić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic, Ljubomir Kragović, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Todorovic, Stevica Dedjanski, Petar Jojić, Dragan Colić, Srdjo Komazec, Paja Momčev, Branislav Blažić, Nenad Mitrović, Aleksandar Vučić, Bozidar Koprivica, Momir Markić, Branislav Rankić, Natas Jovanović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Meko Omič, Meko Omičan Omič Blažić, Čeran Mirović, Mirović, Mirošanović, Mirović, Miroš, Milović, Mirović, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Mirović. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic, written down, withdrew the amendments they submitted on 15 November 2004, as well as the amendment they submitted on 17 November 2004. National MP Goran Knezevic, written on 17 November 2004, withdrew amendments to Articles 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. National MP Vojkan Tomic, written on November 18, 2004, withdrew the amendments to Article 7. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, when considering the bill, the opinion was set aside by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, a member of the Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, in accordance with Article 90 paragraph 3, let us be clear about the extension of the time for discussion. We don't have a more important legal act in a year than the draft budget bill on the agenda. I think it has been a practice so far, and I hope you will accept, because if the SRS parliamentary group, which has 82 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the most convincing of all political parties and parliamentary groups in this high house, has only 98 minutes to talk about the budget, I think it would be necessary to increase that time and allow all MP groups, relatively their strength, to have twice the time to discuss it. After all, as has been democratic practice so far, almost in all cases in this assembly of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9102	I would like to vote on the proposal by Alexander Vukic to double the time for the principle debate for ten hours. For 70, against 117, two abstentions, not eight, of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group - 1 hour and 38 minutes, 24 seconds, DSS - 1 hour, DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPO - New Serbia - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs and three NDS MPs per 5 minutes on the basis of Article 89 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Yes, go ahead. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the importance of the budget and this item of the agenda for attending not only a large number of MPs, but also the Deputy Prime Minister and part of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted this year on 1 November a draft budget bill for 2005 and, as you know, it is in front of you in a regular procedure. I would like to stress that, in addition to the budget law, you have also received a Memorandum of fiscal and economic policy for 2005, with projections for 2006 and 2007, so that this will be my presentation not only to explain the 2005 budget, but I could also freely say the new economic programme on the basis of which the budget was drawn up. As you saw in the draft budget, the total revenues for 2005 were projected at 396.1 billion dinars, total expenditures at 416.6 billion dinars, so the deficit is planned at 20.5 billion. In 2003, the deficit amounted to 43 billion. This represents a double deficit reduction compared to the execution in the previous year or 38% lower deficit compared to the budget rebalancing this year. What kind of budget is that, then? So, twice the deficit since 2003. We can say that this is, on the one hand, an anti-inflation budget, but it's certainly also developmental. Why the development budget? Because for the first time, it seems to me, with us, significantly reduces public spending to only 45.5% of the social gross product. I'll remind you, in the 1990s, she's always exceeded 50% of the social gross product. And what it means for ordinary citizens to reduce public spending; some say it's savings in the state. What are the implications for the citizens, what are the implications for the economy? If the state saves, then a tax reduction space is created, then it affects the reduction of production costs, the promotion of private investment, the growth of production, exports and finally the achievement of the most significant objectives, which is an increase in employment. However, before explaining the 2005 budget in detail, I would like to say briefly where Serbia's economy is today 2004. This year we managed to achieve twice the economic growth planned and we will have an 8% growth rate of social gross product. Serbia has a $2,900 social product per capita at the end of 2004. We cannot be satisfied with this because our social product per capita is twice as low as Croatia and four times lower than Slovenian. It is true that we are still ahead of Bulgaria and Romania, Bosnia, Macedonia, Albania, with which we have never compared. However, once, I would remind you, in 1990 Serbia and Croatia were shoulder to shoulder, and today Croatia, unfortunately, has a double social product. Once Slovenia had twice as much social product as we do, today it has four times as much. We are lagging behind, and the time has come to finally shorten that lag, and to draw closer to the permanent economic growth at least to those with whom we were shoulder to shoulder, and then, of course, the goal is to begin to catch up with more developed countries. So one way to do that was this year's budget cuts. We are going to have a deficit this year that will be about 2.2 - 2.3% of the social gross product, and next year we knock down the deficit on just 1.4% of the social gross product. I'd like to point out one more thing. If we apply international accounting standards in the account of deficits, we will actually achieve a surplus in the budget next year, because the payment of the principal debt does not enter into the account of the deficit. This year, Serbia finally, after a long series of years, won and has for the first time in its financial history a credit rating. We have an international credit rating and are finally included in the map of international investors. Of course, our rating isn't as we'd like to have it. He's just a B plus. But it took us a long time to get it. This is the merit of this government, which has managed to complete negotiations with the London Club of Trustees, and based on that, a credit rating has been received. What's the benefit for citizens from credit ratings? Our banks weren't able to lend long-term loans, for the simple reason they didn't have long-term sources. In the 1990s, there was this problem of old foreign savings. This country's starting to get it back. There's a lot of money to be paid off. And this year over 300 million dollars was paid in the name of old foreign currency savings. It'll be continued later. However, by obtaining a credit rating to our banks, the doors to the banks of international capital have opened, and the fact that the approvals and long-term housing loans have finally begun to result in credit ratings, as banks are now withdrawing long-term assets from abroad. Serbia certainly needs high economic growth in the coming period. Not only next year, Serbia needs to grow at a high pace in the next 10-20 years. In order to have economic growth that is realistically sustainable, it cannot be based solely on high public investment. No country has succeeded in high public investments and with a high budget deficit to achieve economic growth on the long term. It's possible to make a boom in one year, but then there's a problem in the next year. We need to have long-term sustainable economic growth, and this means that it is taking place in terms of financial balance. We don't have financial balance today, because we have a huge external trade deficit. The external trade deficit is the result of several factors, and first of all, the fact that privatisation and restructuring of businesses have not been quickly performed. We have a lot of companies that are uncompetitive, not only because of the protection of domestic economy, but simply, they don't have enough quality technology, they don't have enough quality products. It is high time for us to modernise our businesses, speed up the process of restructuring and privatisation, and thus to increase exports. Today's current payment deficit has to be closed. Who closes that deficit today? First of all, he shuts himself down by means of foreign contact. Even $5 million per year enters our country this way, and the rest is closed by borrowing, and not only by businesses, not only by states, but also by borrowing citizens through consumer loans, leases, etc. Of course we are in favour of funding development by borrowing, but the component of real growth of domestic production, from exports, must be increasingly present. So the only way out for Serbia is for larger exports. How, though, can we accomplish that? First, we need to look the truth in the eye and then implement the measures that are necessary to obtain greater exports. It's not enough to say we want bigger exports. We need to make measures that will lead to this. Many of our companies are not competitive, and many companies have extra employees. Many companies have unreal high costs. That, first of all, applies to public enterprises. Public enterprises have so far based their competitiveness on permanent price hikes. No one wanted to cut costs. When we say that salaries in public enterprises are the result of employees' work in these companies, it can only be partly true, and rather I would say that it is not true, because public enterprises represent monopolies that, based on a monopoly position on the market and through an increase in prices, primarily, make revenue and therefore pay large profits. The time has come to no longer allow irregularities in the business of some public enterprises to be corrected through an increase in prices. The time has come to start cutting costs, from labour costs, if they have surpluses, to other costs that are unnecessary. I have to tell you, when we announced the budget rebalance, many said -- that 15 billion deficits will be reduced this year, this ministry won't be able to function, it won't be for this group, it won't be for that group. What happened at the end? It's very simple that the deficit has been reduced. One truth has been shown – our budgets in the previous period have been oversupply. So everyone asked for more than they needed, for reasons of being irrational. Finally, this government got in the way. We need to cut further costs, and that's why we're moving on to cost cuts, because we're sure that with lower costs, budget users can function well, but there will be lower costs for citizens. The first prize will arrive as early as January 1st, because we are going to lower some taxes. If we cut expenses, we don't need that kind of taxes. Some of the taxes are going to end that. That is why I would now present five key elements of economic policy for 2005, on which this budget was created. First, the National Bank of Serbia, as an independent institution, will continue to conduct a restrictive monetary policy. The goal is to further strengthen the country's foreign reserves. They're currently worth three billion $850 million. Let me remind you, in October 2000, there were only around 380 million, and today they're ten times as big as four years ago. Of course, strengthening foreign reserves means preserving the stability of our dinar. The second point of our programme is the responsible fiscal policy, which will continue to be based on the principle of sound budgetary constraints and lead to a planned reduction in public spending and tax burden on the economy. However, these two segments of economic policy we started to implement already in July this year and the first results are already visible, because the budget vault was never more liquid than it was now, in this month. We are easy to reconcile our commitments. Finally, order has been introduced, so benefits for the unemployed are transferred to the payers every 16 months. We've introduced a regular payment of almost all budget cuts. Of course, even the deficit this year will be lower than the rebalancing, as revenues are made better than we expected, and some expenditures are further reduced. However, I would rely on the remaining three elements of economic policy that have not been implemented so far, I must say, neither from our government until now nor from the previous governments. First of all, it's pay policy. We cannot endure, as a country, long-term economic development if wages grow faster in the long term than labour productivity. I know that wages are low in Serbia and I know that no one is satisfied with the standard. In many sectors, however, public wages are growing faster than labour productivity. There's something going on that hasn't been produced. Unfortunately, for our economy, most of this surplus goes to purchase import goods, not to purchase domestic goods, due to the slow process of restructuring and privatisation and insufficiently broad quality of domestic goods. So we must, on the one hand, control strictly the movement of the wage mass in the next period and stimulate those groups that need the most support. In this year it was health care, and in the following year it will be education, education, cultural institutions and social protection institutions. As far as salary policy is concerned, it's high time to break up with demagogy and an orderly. This means that one who performs the most complex and responsible jobs and one who has the lowest degree of qualification cannot have the same salary. This means that everywhere in the state administration, in public services, in public enterprises, in the Assembly, we need to increase the pay gaps between unskilled work and the most qualified. However, this must be simultaneously followed by rationalization. I can tell you an example from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we take basic government employment, it has increased by 3,300 in the last four years. So the government received 3,300 new people. It was mostly concluded with February 2004. A hundred new people may have been employed this year. The multiplication of the administration, as the government comes, brings new people, and the rest remain to work, simply, can't take it anymore. We have to move towards a decisive reform of the state administration, to precisely, according to objective criteria, locate people who make significant contributions, to get far better rewards, but to introduce flexibility and reduce the number of those who don't do anything, who can't wait for the end of their working hours, drink coffee or come to work. So, we're predicting a sharp reform and we're going to start on our own, we're going to start with the government. By March of this month, we hope that this assembly will adopt a set of laws on reforming the state administration, on public service salaries and on state administration, and on this basis one serious process of rationalising the state administration, as it cannot be effective for any government, not this present or any future government, if the officials are not motivated to work. And they're motivated in two ways. One element is just pay. But the second segment of motivation is that there is no injustice, and the injustice is if someone works late at night and gets the same salary as someone who doesn't come to work. Unlike the economy, where there is a Labour Act that allows flexibility in the movement of labour, in the government officials are protected as white bears. No one can lose a job, and when he gets fired, if he's working badly, the courts are returning him, and we just have to change that base and start seriously reducing the state administration because it's the only way to make it more efficient. As far as public enterprises are concerned, we want to and we need to control the movement of profit mass in public enterprises, for the simple reason that public enterprises do not behave rationally. They have a lot of irrational costs, including receiving people who have no purpose in carrying out business tasks. The total mass in public enterprises currently stands at 32 billion dinars in Serbia, while the salary mass in Serbia's state administration is 70 billion. Therefore, public enterprises have one serious mass of salaries with far fewer employees and we want those who work in public enterprises to have higher salaries, but that is really working with a rational number of employees. This will lead to a process of restructuring public enterprises, first of all, by separating basics from secondary activities. It starts with the EPS from March next year, and by March, a rail restructuring plan will be completed. It was done by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with the help of a famous world consulting house "Busalen", and on the basis of this programme we want to increase efficiency on both rail and EPS. We will have to restructure other public enterprises, such as NIS, such as Telekom Srbija, because everyone can reduce one part of the costs and not only ask for a price hike. Whenever the problem is, they come before the government and say, the price of electricity has to rise 15%. You can't let that happen anymore. First, to rationalise costs, then only then to see if any price increases are necessary. As for the final point of this programme, it implies an acceleration in the restructuring of the economy and the acceleration of privatisation in order to increase exports and reduce the external trade deficit. If we are objective, we will see that the current course of privatisation mainly referred to enterprises that are easy to find strategic partners. There are 60 social large enterprises left in the restructuring process for several years. I have to say, with the help of the transition fund from the previous year, a significant number of people left those companies, got severance fees and found another job or was on the bureau. We need to speed up the process of restructuring and privatising social enterprises, because the state, or citizens, cannot support businesses anymore. They need to find their place on the market, by finding adequate strategic partners. So, as the government did this this year with Livnica "Kikinda", as it will do with "Hipol" and "North" from Saturday, we plan to open a tender for 30 to 40 social-owned enterprises next year. All of this needs to be done in order to do what we really need, which is to increase employment and, of course, increase standards. It is not possible to significantly increase the standard of the population to a short period of time, and anyone who makes different promises simply does not tell the truth. However, if all these five points are simultaneously implemented, we are sure that Serbia will have a permanent employment growth and a permanent growth in standards. You'll see, next year alone with the cancellation of the income tax for new employees and the change of labour market regulations will decrease by several hundred thousand people on the bureau. And why is that? Today, there's a fixed number of employees on the Bureau, of the total number registered at the National Employment Service, of 950,000, I think, is a good part of them there, and it's not looking for a job. The good part is there to achieve the right to insurance, to health care and others, and it should be arranged as other countries have arranged and we will change the appropriate laws to demote applying to the unemployment bureau. Simply, the unemployment bureau should only help those who are really at risk. Those who are healthy and real must have other incentives to find a job and we have set a new credit line to finance new employment through microcredits. We also decided from 1 January to abolish a 14% income tax for all newly employed workers in the new-value sectors, in order to motivate those who are formally on the bureau, and essentially work on black, to translate into this legal sector in this economic way. After taking these two measures, you'll see at the end of next year what will actually be the number of people who are on the work desk, far less than this year. In Croatia, after changing the relevant laws, 200,000 people suddenly left the bureau because they were not looking for a job, they were fictitiously reported there. We really need to draw lines in many segments next year and finally see where we are. We used to have a high degree of gray economy, so, with tax cuts, but also with the elimination of sales taxes and the introduction of VAT, we will significantly curb the gray economy and next year we will know exactly who needs help and who doesn't. So, not that it is happening that the Money Laundering Prevention Commission reveals one of the largest phantom companies in Serbia that is huge, it has embezzled millions and that members of that family receive child benefits. They're receiving help for the people at risk, and millions of dollars have been broken through a phantom company. We have a land of absurdity. Of course, we're going to ask our administration to be more efficient and that we really know who needs that help and who doesn't need it, and to do that, we need to clear up the administration. It must simply be that those who work well to be paid far better, to receive new people, and those who do not work or who cover up such false social cases must lose their jobs. This is the programme, and I guarantee you that simply any government that is responsible for the citizens of Serbia, if it wanted good Serbia, would have to implement a programme like this. As for macroeconomic assumptions, I mean the budget, we planned the budget on the following assumptions. First, we estimate that growth in social gross products next year will be 4.5%, while inflation will be 9.1%). You can see for yourself that we have come from the lower growth of the social product than it will be in this year. There are two reasons for that. First, the principle of caution, and secondly, because the starting base of a larger social product in this year will be higher, because it is harder to keep such a high growth rate. However, if Serbia records between four and five percent of the growth of the social product each year, we will have no problems, neither with the orderly service of existing obligations nor with the taking of any new commitments. As for the source of funding for the deficit, three are key sources. First of all, there's the privatisation revenue. We planned to cover the 20.5 billion deficit with 8 billion privatisation revenues, with the fact that I have to say that expectations of both domestic and foreign experts are that Serbia should make at least five times as much income next year as this year, including revenues from the privatisation of banks, not just businesses. If this is achieved, and we expect that the privatisation revenues next year will be 25 billion, so far more than needed to cover the deficit, then another 7 billion will be transferred to the 4th quarter of the PIO Fund, to pay off one part of the old debt to pensioners, which is half of the pension that would be paid in the fourth quarter of next year. So, this budget is basically supposed to pay 12 and a half pensions. On the other hand, 5.7 billion deficits are expected to be covered on the basis of foreign loans and donations, while the net domestic funding will be 6.8 billion dinars, and these are the revenues from the privatisation that we will transfer in 2005, and there are revenues from the issue of government securities. Now I'd like to give some attention to the revenue side of the budget. As far as income is concerned, you may feel that incomes are 20 percent higher than those achieved in 2004. However, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention that the bases are incomparable, because next year the sales tax is being abolished and the value added tax is being introduced and the income structure has changed. I'll tell you how. First, when we talk about salary tax – next year we plan to raise the participation of local self-government in salary tax from the current 30 per cent to 40 per cent. This means that less will remain with Serbia's budget and far more with local self-government. I have to say that this is one of the highest incomes of local self-government and, despite being criticised at the beginning of this year, that local self-government with the removal of income tax will lose and have less income than they had before, local self-governments have not only had less than they have had far more income this year than those critics have said, and even compared to what we planned. So the local self-government's income plan for this year was 75.8 billion dinars, and it will achieve 81.4 billion dinars. Raising wages tax participation to 40% will significantly improve local self-government revenues. However, the elimination of the sales tax lost one part of the sales tax, which was also a source of funding for local self-government. As a result, we have defined in the budget a single amount of transfer funds of 13.8 billion dinars, which will be allocated to municipalities under a special law on the distribution of public funds to cities and municipalities. My plan is to adopt the final draft of the text next Thursday at the Government and refer it to an urgent procedure in the Assembly in the first week of December, together with a package of tax laws, which has already been sent to you for consideration. As for the planned revenue from value added tax, they are planned at 179 billion dinars and will be the highest revenue of the budget, as much as 45.3 per cent of total revenues will come from value added tax. But I must point out that Serbia's total turnover from sales taxes this year amounted to 157 billion. So, the Republic of Serbia's income, Serbia's budget, plus the revenues of local self-government. If we compare these two figures, we've projected a very conservative growth in value added tax revenue of just 14 percent. In other words, we assume that after the elimination of the sales tax it will be far greater to cover the grey economy to happen and that the value added tax will be charged by more than one taxpayer, so it will be far greater, but due to the precautionary principle we planned at 14%, 9.1 for the inflation effect and between four and five percent for the impact of the growth of the social gross product. This means that if we cover even one percent of the grey economy, it will be one percent higher. If we cover 20 percent of the grey economy, 20 percent will be higher. I am convinced that next year we will have far greater income on this basis and that we will be able to talk in the middle of the year about the distribution of surplus incomes on this basis, so we will together make a decision – we can go further to tax cuts or to raise some expenditures. I think it would be best if we decided on a combined approach and additionally lower some taxes, but maybe some expenditures beyond half the year to increase. As far as tax cuts are concerned, they've only been talked about so far. They will take place from January 1st. The tax on financial transactions is abolished. I also have to thank the National Assembly that accepted the government's proposal to abolish the tax -- 7 billion dinars will lose the republican budget, but they will get citizens of Serbia and the economy, because all of this has so far been thrown on their backs. When you go to the bank today, in the mail, they charge you a commission, as the bank says, but it's a tax on financial transactions. It has been gone since January 1st and 7 billion dinars will be disbursed by citizens and businesses. Secondly, we are abolishing the taxation of banking services, because by abolishing the sales tax there is no more taxation of the fees that banks charge from customers. The effect is about 4 billion dinars. For that amount, they have to go down interest rates. For this amount of interest rates, two to three percentage points must go down, for the simple reason that banks are now calculating that amount into their margins, into interest. I'm sure the National Bank will make a system that, if there is cartel behaviour of banks and if they don't lower after the 1st of January, they will severely punish those banks that agree and keep monopoly interest on the market. However, it seems to me that the reduction of interest has already begun these days. You can see that they finally started to approve, thanks to the establishment of the National Corporation for Stability Credit Insurance, long-term housing loans, with interest below 9% a year, and up to one month ago it was 11 to 12 percent. We have to go with economic measures to encourage banks and further lower interest rates. But it's not just banks we want to encourage. We will reduce the income tax from independent operations to just 10 percent, and now it is 14 percent, so that small businesses, small shops, cobwebs can compete with large businesses and bidders. Also, excise duties on diesel fuel for tractors, construction machinery and ships will be lifted, so that those who are engaged in agriculture – if registered, and whoever registers any additional taxes will not be paid because the first week of December will be amended the Income Tax Act – all the money that, as registered agricultural producers, will not enter into the base of the income tax of the citizens, therefore, will not be subject to any taxation, and on the other hand, farmers will not pay taxes on catastran income neither in 2004 nor in 2005. Finally, we will reduce the agricultural land transfer tax to facilitate the accumulation and exchange of agricultural land, from the current five to 2.5%. We're going to double down on the car transfer tax, so people don't drive cars to authority, they're going to have motives to register them legally. Next year, we'll have significant revenue from gambling. The adoption of the law on gambling has established both the State lottery of Serbia and the Authority for the Control of the implementation of this law. These days, tax inspectors are moving into serious control of the gambling directors. We planned for next year, except for those revenues that would enter Serbia's budget, and 660 million dinars for special budget funds, and 213 million for funding sports, 200 million for financing the needs of disabled organisations, 147 million for funding socio-humanite organisations, 25 million for social protection institutions and 75 million for Red Cross institutions. If there are higher revenues, they will increase, because no matter how much the revenues from gambling are increased, everything is arranged in relation to the legislation and these budget funds will then get more. That would be basic to the revenue side of the budget. As for the expenditure side of the budget, I must say that next year Serbia is making 13.6 billion dinars more to pay than this year, and most to pay off the domestic debt, therefore, to pay off the debt on the basis of the old foreign savings. We planned 27.4 billion dinars to pay off the old foreign savings next year, and 10 billion less than or 18.9 billion to pay off the foreign debt. I have to say that public debt financing expenditures will rise from 9% to 11% in the total budget. The second item to record growth in the next period is the social security benefits from the budget. Total social security benefits from the budget next year will be 33 billion dinars. I would single out some of the most important categories: for the personal disabled of war and military people – 6 billion, for the additional disability of three billion and a hundred, for the civilian disabled 583 million, total for disease, disability, different additions – 9 billion and 900, so almost 10 billion dinars. That's about 20% growth compared to the singles in this year. To protect families, children, firstly to promote birth, earning families – 6 billion, an increase of 17% compared to this year; a parental supplement of 3 billion and 200, an increase of 15% compared to this year; for child allowances 7.7 billion, an increase of 18% compared to this year. Total for family security and child benefits – 17 billion dinars or on average 16% more than this year. Finally, for social protection, a second person's care and assistance allowance, a billion 165 million, that's 40% growth; for material security -- two billion and 850 million; for family accommodation 430 million; for the material costs of housing facilities and a social work centre – 925 million. Total social security will have six billion next year or 52% more than this year. As for other expenditures, I'd like to say a few words about the investment side of the budget. The largest growth is projected for the Road Directorate. The Road Directorate will have 350m euros in dinar equivalent next year; a 52% increase in the budget itself, and expenditure on its own income will also have significant and overwhelming resources. I have to say, it won't be all the investment to build a road network. You have heard from the Minister of Capital Investments announcing concessions for some directions, the government is seriously considering doing so at the beginning of the year. A financial structure will be considered, and we can really do in three years' time to finance travel infrastructure far more than the previous governments have done in 10 years. It is possible to finish in three years and the direction of Novi Sad-Subotica, Belgrade-Pozega, Nis-Dimitrovgrad, but it is necessary that, with budget funding, the concessions be launched. As for the economy budget, it is planned for 7.3 billion dinars, with 5 billion for economic subsidies. Otherwise, the government's commitment is to reduce economic subsidies, for the simple reason it is the money of Serbian citizens, which is given to pay salaries to companies that cannot operate efficiently and profitablely on the market. This year, these subsidies amounted to around 6 billion. We have to go into a subsidy reduction. It is the only motive for social directors, who are nice to sit in these companies, unlike workers who are unemployed, we have to push them to speed up the process of restructuring and privatisation. There's one more thing, those companies that don't find strategic partners, of course they'll have subsidies next year. However, those companies that are privatised will naturally be removed from the subsidy regime, as we speed up the privatisation process, we predict a billion less for economic subsidies. As for the other items in the economy ministry budget, it is a billion and 700 million dinars, which will be placed through the Development Fund; 900 million dinars are business leases and 800 million, which make up 600 million for microcredits for the unemployed. Our plan is to open a brand-new credit line. Why would we allow that one unequivocal need to finance the employment of those who have ideas and have no money to only work at banks, at high interest, when the state can encourage the same thing, with far lower interest. Our idea is to begin to approve, along with others, loans for those who lost their jobs in the transition process for a three-year period, with one year of starting, with interest of only 1% a year. My proposal is to all those in local self-government that they are also planning part of their local budgets for next year for these purposes. Some municipalities have already made such decisions, I have heard that it has brought Kraljevo, Loznica, that part of the budget goes to employment programmes. We will have a central programme from the budget, but I think local self-government could make a contribution, and the finance ministry is ready for all those interested in the funding model's concessions, which has already been elaborated and ready to use since 1 January of next year. As for the Development Fund, I must point out, although the recapitalisation of the Development Fund next year will be only 200 million dinars, it has 3.6 billion dinars this year. But I must point out that the Ministry of Finance and many other ministers in the government are not satisfied that the funds of the Development Fund are being used, for the simple reason that these 3.6 billion funds could far more affect employment and exports. But we are witnessing that some companies, no matter what they hire 2-3 people, have a priority in the allocation of funds to other companies, which would potentially employ between 50 and 100 employees. As a result, I also heard that yesterday on the Finance Committee, I think it would be good to consider a more detailed operation of the Development Fund; the management of this fund has not changed in recent years; I will not re-evaluate whether or not it should be changed, but the fact is that 3.6 billion dinars of financial injection, under more favourable conditions, could be used far more effectively. There they would have to be used exclusively by criteria that increase the number of employees, of course in a productive way, who can increase exports, he must be given priority without any other principles working. As for other items to boost the economy, a billion were allocated to boost exports, another billion for the Guarantee Fund for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the recapitalisation of the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Loans. If we're talking about the agricultural budget, you know that last year, and this year, the Agrarian budget went up three times compared to 2003. It seems to me that the possibilities for 2005 were still limited, but we will not deny agriculture, because all those programmes that were positive this year, we will continue or even improve, correct some of the mistakes we saw, so the agricultural budget is at the same level as it was last year. So agriculture, with a water industry, is going to be about 20 billion dinars. Of these 11 billion subsidies in agriculture, they remained at the same level as in last year, 3.5 billion are intended for loans, with the emphasis now on long-term loans compared to short-term ones, as they were very effectively paid by the end of July of this year, as many as 28,000 farmers received short-term loans, a billion 700 million dinars. However, as far as long-term loans are concerned, even though both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Guarantee Fund have done their part of the job, there are still hundreds of millions of dinars in the account of the Development Fund paid from the Treasury, not transferred to farmers, because banks have turned out to be really holding back that payment, regardless of what the regulation requires of them, the paperwork they should provide not before paying off the loans, but after paying off those loans. And of course we're going to have to, unfortunately Serbia is still a country where it has to be pushed, where it can't just be a regulation to lead to the desired goal, where a man has to keep asking what's going on, of course we're going to do everything to pay off what's promised for long-term loans in this year, and then next year, because of this impunity, I'd say even with the boastful behaviour of some banks, we're thinking that maybe some banks will shut down from that process and that we'll direct these loans, with as little administrations as possible. I think farmers will somehow forgive us here, because that mechanism never existed. Whoever's doing this has got to be wrong. We admitted a mistake. It's a mistake. It's a complicated procedure. We will also change it from the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Government of Serbia, and I, as finance minister, guarantee that it will be by the end of this year, that it will be a far faster process, and in the next particular. As for the other items in agriculture, I will briefly say what will be the highest priority. Milk subsidies are slightly more than three billion dinars in next year's budget, subsidies for industrial plants 2.2 billion, the predominant production of sunflowers, soybeans, oil pumpkins and tobacco. If you have noticed, there is no predominance of sugar beet production, because we believe that the government has done a lot by allowing the return of sugar preferences to the countries of the European Union. One large foreign exchange inflow will now come into the country, but these are all private sugars, they have to pay the farmers the subsidies, because we simply allowed them to make a huge profit and now it's up to them to give a part of it to the peasants, because without them they have no profit. As for other subsidies, we predicted 500 million for subsidies for vegetable production. It's a newspaper in our budget. Many complain - why some vegetables are imported outside the season. Why the green salad is imported in January, February or March. Because our peasants don't make salad in that period. We want to encourage our peasants to build greenhouses and to produce small tomatoes, not only the big one, that they can produce salad not only in April, May and June, but also in January, and then it's normal that no one will import it if we can produce it. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture will grant subsidies to assist the holdings of registered agricultural households. Once again, all those who register will get more and more benefits, and those who are not registered will get nothing. It's something that is a firm stance of the government and it simply has to be interrupted by the practice of just asking the state without giving anything or little to the state. Those who give more must get more. Those who only complain and give a little, can't get the privileges anymore. So we have to put that sector in order to the end. When it comes to regression, a billion and 200 million dinars are foreseen for the regression of fertilisers. Also, 850 million, significantly more than this year, with measures to boost agricultural exports. The wheat premiums are estimated at a billion dinars. This year, the state paid three billion dinars in the name of the wheat premium; a billion and 200 or a billion and 300 before the harvest was even finished. Those stock reserves paid in advance, and a billion and 700 million dinars were paid in the name of the breeding premium this year. It's that one dinar the government promised. We're not gonna stop at that. Next week, since the province of Vojvodina did not make an appropriate programme to pay half the dinars to farmers, the government of the Republic of Serbia will decide to pay half the premium dinar by the end of this year for all those who handed over the wheat. Next week, the government will make such a decision, and by Sunday, the first week of December, it will start paying off. Now you know the lists. But I'm asking the farmers to register because they'll get the money faster. Whoever registers gets the money on the bill, doesn't pay taxes, and for those who don't register, the money goes to the mill. Whether the mill will transfer the peasant or not, the government can't guarantee it. We simply cannot bear the responsibility of whether some mills behave in accordance with their obligations to peasants or not. But we guarantee that all those who have open accounts will immediately and quickly receive money in their accounts, and no tax on it will be paid. Measures to improve productivity - a billion 430 million for next year. These are primarily measures to improve livestock, it is a regress for breeding cattle, a regress for raising new plantations, fruit material and additional measures to improve the quality of milk, there is an estimated 800 million. The fourth measure is - improving the village, the total value is close to a billion, or 911 million dinars, and finally, these are special actions in the agriculture of 350 million. This will be spent on the costs of analysis of samples taken, in support of scientific and professional activities, the work of commissions and expert advices, and for various professional agricultural services and for the work of the register of agricultural households. The agriculture ministry has adopted a strategy for the development of agrarians not only in the coming year, but also in one longer time. The energy ministry brings a strategy for energy development next week. A strategy for reforming the state administration has been adopted. Today you heard the government's economic policy programme and I have to admit, like any other government, for the first few months we didn't have adopted strategies, and all the criticisms that were heard at the government's expense, that the government had no strategy, were justified. But this is today the government that has a vision, which has a strategy, not only for development in the next three years but for the next three years, which you saw in the Memorandum of Economic Policy for this and for the next two years. I would also like to say something about cultural expenditures, that is, investment for culture, because investments in culture cannot be called expenditures. An increase of 400 million dinars in the division was planned, with no subsidies to RTS. So the total budget is going to be 3.1 billion. It includes around 700 million dinars for various programmes and projects in culture, 95 million for the reconstruction of Hilandar monastery and 80 million dinars for the maintenance of the Dedenje court complex. As for other important institutions, I would point out the special budget of SANU, which is larger next year than this one and will amount to 144 million dinars. Of course, I would like to thank the MPs who, when we adopted the 2004 budget, asked for a specific budget item to be set up for the financing of the National Communities Council. As you know, we did it from the current budget reserve. However, the 2005 budget envisions a special split for the funding of the National Minority Council of 45m dinars. I think there is a significant increase in investment for the south of Serbia and the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Last year, there was a billion 650 million at the co-ordination centre, and this year 600 million more, two billion 250. However, total investment expenditure for southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija will be far higher and will amount to around 3.8 billion dinars. The structure is next -- the ministries will resolutely invest in areas that are within their jurisdiction. Thus, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy will budget 130m for Kosovo and Metohija; education and sport 18m; capital investments of about 300m; the Ministry of Mining five million. Two billion and 250 million are provided for the co-ordination centre, with funds also intended for programmes to co-finance development in southern Serbia with UNDP and CHF international organisations of 104 million, with only 20% of the total cost, so that around 500 million dinars will be invested for southern Serbia on the basis of these projects. The government has today decided to allocate appropriate funds for the UNDP programme from budget rebalances, and the same decision will be made next week for the CHF programmes for southern Serbia. Also, apart from these revenues, an additional postage stamp for Kosovo will be issued, which will be sold throughout the year and we expect revenues of around 300 million dinars. Of course, there are additional transfers from the budget provided for the Co-ordination Body of 350 million, so this is 3.350,000, plus the investment effect of international institutions of around 500 million, which is about 3,800,000 for Kosovo and Metohija, significantly more than this year. As far as public debt is concerned, the budget envisions a guarantee and a counter-guarantee of up to 93,000 million dinars. This is far less than this year, when 257 billion dinars were planned to issue guarantees and counter-guarantees. I have to say that, regardless of the plan, only 10% was issued, so 22 billion dinars, so we decided that next year we would go with a lower maximum ceiling for issuing guarantees and counterguarantees, with the actual amount being less than these 93 billion, but we have given all the potential projects that are now in circulation, and then will specifically decide on it and ratify it in this assembly, which will be approved. By the way, I'd like to say that Serbia has grown significantly over the last four years. In fact, our total public debt is lower, 4.500,000 euros compared to December 2000. In December 2000, the total public debt amounted to 14.2 billion euros, with a total of 9.7 billion euros on 31 October this year. Of the total debt that is internal and external, the internal debt accounts for 42%. The biggest obligations are to the old foreign exchange savings, and the outside account for 58% of the debt. Our total public debt is now only 56% of the social gross product. It was 170% three years ago. Next year, we will complete the programme with the IMF, a three-year programme, which will provide an additional write-off of $700m and a decrease in public debt levels at below 50% in the social gross product, which is a level lower than some countries in transition, and even from some EU member states. We shouldn't fool ourselves. And with such a lower volume of public debt, we have to achieve the growth of social gross product 4 to 5% a year, so that we can serve it without a problem. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a sharp program. But this is a real programme, and I expect all those who want to see Serbia's progress, not only in 2005, but in the next 10, 20 years, to support this budget. Of course, this budget will ensure regular reconciliation and pensions and all other budget contributions. This budget will increase the standard of education, culture, social protection institutions, as 30% will be higher salaries of teachers and college teachers next year compared to this year. However, this budget also requires proper courage politically, as this has not been implemented so far. What we're proposing is not nearly implemented by the previous government without talking about the previous period when we were under sanctions, when there was nothing to talk about like this. However, we are convinced that such a budget simply has no alternative. I am sure that both the Ministry of Finance and the entire Government of Serbia have the energy and knowledge and the courage to implement this programme, and I am sure that we will succeed, and I want in the interest of all the citizens who chose us to support this budget, because this is not the political budget, this is the budget that will bring good to both us and future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9104	After the break. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm setting a break to 15.20 hours. You'll have your first word after your break.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9105	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. We'll continue this afternoon's session. Please, at the beginning, let us determine the quorum. We've been determined to have a quorum. Before I ask if the rapporteurs of the committees in charge want a word, I would just like to read you a confirmation of the mandate to the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have received reports from the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Radoslav Zdravkovic and Petar Majarevic, elected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Radoslav Zdravkovic and Petar Majarevic. I congratulate the MPs of the election, and I ask them, if they are here, to enter the O.R. Does Radojko Obradovic, deputy chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does Milos Aligrudic, in front of the Legislative Committee, the president, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does the MP who singled out his opinion want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? First word came from MP Alexander Vukic. Mr. Wolfie, come in. I don't know if the notice was read in the first part of the session, since I wasn't there all the time. The mandated representative for this point is ahead of the parliamentary group DS – Boris Tadic, MP Dusan Petrovic, and in front of the DSS parliamentary group, the authorised representative is Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask that we do not begin the debate until the Minister of Finance arrives. I think the MPs of the majority and the president of the National Assembly will agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9107	Mr. Vukic, I'm sorry, he's adopting himself, since there are several ministers here today. I ask the professional service to inform the Ministers immediately to come down, above all, the Minister of Finance. There's no need to take a break, because it'll take a while. I thank you all for your patience. According to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Wolfie, you'll be waiting, no matter what you've got, since it's in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, authorized representative by this point in front of the DS - Boris Tadic, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of Article 69(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Management Board, later in its session here, found that Mr Dragisa Djokovic, allegedly resigned and determined the termination of his term. As the injured Article 88 paragraph 1 is Article 2. The law on the election of MPs, that resignation does not exist. In accordance with Article 225. Rules of Procedure, the resignation has not been submitted to the speaker of the assembly, which the president will certainly declare when the time comes, neither has been distributed to the MPs, nor is it in accordance with Article 220. The Rules of Procedure, about that resignation MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9109	Mr. Petrovic, excuse me, please, just a moment, excuse me for interrupting. Please, we're talking about a People's MP, it's the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, the most important function in the country, there's no reason to yell. Let's listen to the speaker patiently. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Excuse me. The members are listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9110	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Constitution, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Constitutional Court's decision, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the most serious way, was violated, as Mr Djokovic's parliamentary mandate was kidnapped, the DS parliamentary group would, of course, file a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, with a request for a provisional measure to put the kidnapping out of effect. DS MPs will leave this session because the Members' elemental rights have been violated. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs from the parliamentary majority, this is a sign of your end, and if you did not know, we are now informing you of this and no kidnapping, nor is stealing a mandate going to save the government, which ended its short term by damaging Serbia's rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9111	Thank you. You will allow, excuse me, before the replica, Mr Petrovic, as you know, the President of the Assembly is obliged to give you an explanation when seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have advertised an infringement of Article 69(2) in order to make it clear to MPs, Article 2 is one of the positions which in Article 69 speaks about the Administrative Committee and, among other things, Article 2 says: "it brings individual acts (so, the Administrative Committee) on the status issues of MPs and officials elected or appointed by the National Assembly, if the law is not otherwise determined". At the afternoon session, I read an act of the Administrative Committee and made it clear to the citizens, on the Administrative Committee, as well as on all committees of the Serbian Parliament, representatives of all parliamentary groups sit. Now I have to give you another explanation. With Mr Djokovic's resignation, according to which I have the same obligation, and to all MPs who participated in the work of this assembly, since I saw him in the hall after my term of office, half an hour after his term ended, he also told me that there was a problem, and I referred him to him. So, please, I instructed him, and at first I didn't get it, since he raised his diary this morning, why wasn't he in the Assembly to say, please, without anything ugly, so MPs have to apply. In the morning a man came to work, don't do it like that, and I asked him why he didn't show up, because the decision of the Administrative Committee that was making, I don't get into how he could argue with this pay phone, and in that case there was no finding, and I was sorry that he told me that he wasn't in the Assembly then, so he wasn't able. And the party he went to didn't do it either, so I instructed him that if there's anything that's a fake, he's looking for criminal charges. But he told me that there was no counterfeit on that occasion, but in any case, since there was no doubt in this conference, let alone stealing something, and I thank all the MPs for making it possible, certainly, if there is something really controversial, because it does not depend on the president of the Assembly, this is the work of the Administrative Committee, RIK, the President or the chairman merely announces the acts adopted under Article 69(2) and is also informed of all the actions of the MPs who address him, from the resignation and beyond. So, of course, this must be settled legally if there is a dispute, but it is not in the power of either the President of the Assembly or the MPs. Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the clarification? No, go ahead. There will be a replica, Mr. Prophetic, it is not disputed. First reaction, because we agreed at the last session that the MP would not say from the bench whether he was satisfied, but to give a reaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9112	Mr. President, anything you say could stick to the logical context that there are no members of 225. Rules of Procedure. Article 225. The rules of procedure clearly state that the resignation is submitted in writing by MPs to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You are the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask you if Dragisa Djokovic has resigned or not and whether the person who Dragisa Djokovic has authorized you to do so has resigned in writing or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9113	Of course you're absolutely right, Article 225 says so. So, like all acts, the office is referred to the President of the Assembly. I can't answer you right now because I really don't know. As you know, from the office, it goes to committees and cabinets. I can let you know after the end of the day, when I check to see if the resignation has arrived in the cabinet. I'll let you know anyway. I hear oral confirmations, but this is just about written confirmation. Therefore, independent of these oral certificates, if it has arrived, the cabinet is certainly in that automation, because certainly the president does not read all the acts. Yes, that was already shared with the MPs, but certainly there was no need for me to do it myself. Thank you. You're satisfied with this other explanation? Thank you. Replica, Mr. Prophetovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9114	Mr. Petrovic, you were able to react three times today. Three legal options today have not been exhausted as a parliamentary club, i.e. MP Dragisa Djokovic himself. The first time you could have responded to the board's session, you didn't do it. The second time you were able to react here in the Serbian Parliament, when the president of the assembly found that one of the MPs personally resigned, which was handed out to lawmakers at 12:30, with his signature. The third time you could have reacted at a session of the Republic Election Commission. You didn't do it once. Why? Because you're wrong. Because all the legal conditions on the part of the Democratic Party of Serbia, i.e. the Administrative Committee, which unanimously reached this decision, and the Administrative Committee was not only governed by law and legal norms, but also governed by the agreement of representatives of all parliamentary clubs in this assembly, which followed directly after the assembly was established, and with which both the representative and the president of the Democratic Party Boris Tadic agreed. The deal said that one party from the other party would not take the mandates, that the assembly would not rule what is the rule in the previous period and that some are trying to continue today. Why are you treading the word of Boris Tadic, the president of your party, the President of the Republic, is your problem. The second thing that the Single Administrative Board has made this decision is that there is no more trade in all the institutions of the system, no more thieving and stealing in the highest home in this country, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia determines that everything will work in this country. If thieving is a priority here, if it's stolen here, then it can become a norm in all other institutions at all other levels, which I don't think anyone, except one parliamentary group, in this house wants. Such reactions, unfortunately, the Democratic Party closes the door for co-operation to all other parliamentary clubs. I also regret that we will have one big party with a great influence on public opinion beyond other parliamentary parties, but that is the path you have chosen. Continue on this path, continue the path that Cedomir Jovanovic advocates, your rating will drop, but that is your problem, and it is not ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9115	The presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, now have the word. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9116	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party MP group, as the largest parliamentary group and the largest political party in parliament and in our country, will not vote in favour of the draft budget law, because we believe that this proposal has many shortcomings, because we think it is not developmental or social and that much should be amended in this bill. Of course, Serbian Radical Party MPs have diligently, as always, submitted a large number of amendments to the draft budget law and we expect a good portion of these amendments to be adopted. In an analysis of the economic situation in our country, carried out by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, we could say - excellently that we have the growth of gross social product, excellently that we boast of the increase in production, but for all of this it is at least responsible, least deserved executive power or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because that part of the production, particularly related to agricultural production, has nothing to do with the conditions or what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did, but rather what the hosts, peasants, agricultural producers did for themselves and for their country. What concerns us first and foremost, technically, is the fact that we don't know what the budget is. Is it 416.5 billion or 473.5 billion? In fact, if you take a good look at this tableboard review of our budget, you'll see that, with the costs of additional revenue from the authorities, and that has to be included in the budget, our budget is 473.5 billion. It can't be said that we can't count on what the organ's revenue is going into the budget, especially because it has to be included. You can find confirmation of my words and miscalculation of the budget itself in Article 11, paragraph 3. The draft budget law, which speaks of budget implementation, where it is said: "If the beneficiaries of the budget do not make any additional revenue as set out in Article 7 of this Law, the appraisal of the determined revenue will not be carried out on the burden of the budget." So the budget itself is about these financial assets and how he's kept an eye on them. On the other hand, what's interesting and what in this table view gets into the eyes is so-called. The payment of the loan. In fact, almost 5%, or even more than 5%, if this part of the budget presented to us by Mr Dinkic is the payment of the loan. Now he says, we have an incomparably smaller duty than before. We were 14, and today we have 10 billion, or 9.7 billion. Yes, but that's because those debts that are absolutely non-refundable and none of them ever expected to get a single euro, not a more serious sum of money or anything like that, and not to talk about how individuals or privates in our country participated and influenced the percentage reduction in the London Club, the write-offs, and so on. The big problem with covering the budget deficit itself is the fact that the main thing won't be privatisation revenues, because we didn't have them to what extent it was needed, but the main part will be in any case -- new borrowings. The question arises whether in the total part of the budget for the payment of interest next time, and we think there will already be rebalance, but for the 2006 budget, will we then again have a percentage increase with interest payments or not? We're going to have it because nobody's taking care of it, but they're just looking at how and how at some point to cover the deficit without essentially changing and not doing anything. Public investment works were what was necessary in 2005, which would bring not only the current but also the long-term boom for our economy, for our economy. As for the state authorities and what's been set aside, I'm sure the government has had a lot of problems here. You'll never put together an ideal budget and I don't think that's why I criticize every minister, but what I'm going to notice is that there are some things that there are no excuses for. We have a huge number of agencies, commissions and offices that spend money, and you don't know how or why. Even 738 million stand out for agencies, various offices and commissions, which are hardly serving anything, or at least they shouldn't serve because they're parallel organs. If we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we have some commissions, offices, so what do we need on top of that and agencies that spend tens of millions? I've singled out a specific one, to show the citizens how and how their money is spent. The Lustration Commission, is there a commission, what is it doing? Does she still haunt witches, those who disagree with them? Who are these people, when we never set her up? Why are they spending money, on what grounds? (A voice from the O.R.: That's what they do under the law. ) When you say it is by law, I will read it to you, according to the law, a million dinars go to rewards, bonuses and other special expenditures. I'm sorry, who in the Lustration Commission gets a reward, a bonus and a special expense. What's he getting that for? Two hundred thousand are travel expenses and other expenses. Who travels, and where does it travel? Two hundred thousand are favors per contract. I don't think this was seen by Mr. Secretary, I suppose. I don't see any logic. It's funny to everyone. We have dozens of agencies, offices and commissions, something no one can understand alive. We must, first of all, no matter how long we return, regardless of the grace period, regardless of the favourable interest we are offered, try to avoid covering the deficit by further borrowing. It's our key and strategic problem that we need to solve, which, as a state, we need to plead out. On the other hand, we must avoid granting additional funding from the budget for specialised services, but rather finance from the resources of the authorities, because that is the case for 6.8 billion. The minister boasted this morning, he said -- we have a court order, I guess, an arrangement of the Court -- 80 and a few million, and the people have no bread to eat. People barely make ends meet. People are waiting for production to start somewhere, business, to go into major public investment works. And we're going to grease the court gentlemen and say that they should live even better, they're bad, they're hard, they're struggling. What about the funds for Mr. Covic's Co-ordination Centre? The public toilet, its construction costs 365 thousand dinars, it's a Polish wooden toilet. Can anyone explain that to me? That's what we had in the report on the work of the Coordination Centre. Is there any excuse for that? Come on, I'm gonna find another one myself, and we're gonna figure it out in 15 minutes, not somebody taking 365 grand for that. We paid particular attention to how many individual state authorities take for themselves. It is interesting that Mr Tadic, or the President of the Republic, I apologize, so the intended position is not appointed, 184 million, of which, interestingly in that part that applies only to him, not to professional services, not to what exists in the presidency, it refers only to him, he has the right to 23 million and 200,000 – services under contract. Vuk Draskovic, i.e. I apologize to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Serbia-Montenegro, according to this budget, 57 million services per contract. What are these people doing? What does that take? Who needs that? It's the money of Serbian citizens. It is the money of the citizens of Serbia, but for what, for them to promote the media in order to help each other and to attack the army. We have submitted amendments to have that service money go for our army, instead of for Draskovic to go for our soldiers. There are humiliations in this country within the same divisions. In fact, donations are foreseen for the President of the Republic's Office, believe it or not, if you recalculate, of 30 and 40,000 euros. What's this about? And it's from abroad, which is forbidden by law. Is it that someone for 30,000 determines what kind of policy we will be leading, how we will invite Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections when they will not, and after that Haradinaj will be elected to us as prime minister of Kosovo, because some have taken advantage of their influence, etc. Please look at some of the most illogical things I've shown you today and, ending the first part of my presentation, since I have 10 minutes left, I want to say about these thefts that it is immoral to be on general i.e. the global plan, because no one voted for any of us individually, political parties are being kidnapped by mandates. We have, from a moral and legal point of view, even if you will, even condemned. I must say, I am very happy and proud to be the deputy head of a parliamentary group that no one has managed to steal in the past, nor in this term, any MPs, and I am even more proud and happy that we are not, and we will never want to steal anyone's mandate, even if we fail to bring down someone's law or something we have done, by stealing and stealing, we will never serve ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9117	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are any of the presidents of MPs' clubs and authorised representatives answering for a word? The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9118	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The main goal of G17 plus is to create an economically strong and democratically stable Serbia, which will become a leader in the Balkans, ready to accept European standards and be able to preserve and protect all the best from its own tradition and culture. Discussing the budget, I will be free to remind you of the fundamental points on which the government's economic policy is based and through which I express the 2005 draft budget. First, the government established a budget with a 9% inflation projection at the annual level. I must remind you that citizens tie a solid dinar to the governor at the time, and today's finance minister, Mr Dinkic, who founded this kind of stability as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the National Bank of Serbia. In the eyes of our citizens, a solid dinar reflects and assumes any kind of stability in the country. It is clear that you can keep the dinar in your pocket today or in your current account without any fear that it will be worth as much tomorrow. When we associate with this the increase of foreign reserves, the return of trust in banks, the measures of tax release for financial transactions, then it is clear strategy and message – to reduce interest. Secondly, I will remind you that the write-off of foreign debts, first of all, is due then to the vice-president of the federal government, and the current vice-president of the Republic Government, Mr. Labus, to write-off from the Paris and London Club. So when you look at the weight of the debt, if the weight of the debt decreases, it's clear that the state is relieved. It's important to say that our country paid the debts neatly, not the real ones. Membership in the most important international institutions has been renewed, I will only list some -- the IMF and the World Bank. I'll remind you, when he was on the budget's agenda, where the deficit was shrinking, some of them were against it here, and the IMF responded positively after three days. I'll remind you, too, that the deficit for the next 2005 is far lower and is worth 20 billion dinars. Third, I'll look back on salaries, social benefits and pensions. All those who receive salary as budget beneficiaries will be paid an increase in the amount of inflation in the following year. And not only that, this year the healthcare workers had the advantage. The year's advantage will be education, and I come from education and I have to point out - the increase in profit for 2005 is 30%, which is 120,000 people who have their families and who teach our children in schools. Clearly, then, even in the coming years, some of the items will have priority. It can't be paid all at once, but it's important to admit that it's planned to be taken care of. Also, I want to say a clear and unambiguous message to the pensioners -- they will have realistically increased pensions, which they will receive regularly. Social benefits are increased by nine billion and there is a need to highlight maternity, maternal supplements, social protection, family security, etc. A fourth, which we can call savings and controlled use of funds, but when we say saving our citizens think of those TV shows and that voice we haven't looked forward to, the savings from some previous periods. This is about the following - saving is primarily focused on the state administration and restructuring of public enterprises. The state administration and administration must be less and more efficient, at the service of every citizen. Also, budget allocation control is very important and such moves are G17 plus welcome. Public enterprises, it's their turn to go into restructuring, and it's not good that we don't have control over the use of funds in public enterprises, and it's not good for some who are making losses to ask the state and the people's money to cover those same losses. It is clear that they must be more efficient, they must be more rational, they must be what they are essentially -- at the service of all Serbian citizens. So when I said this about saving, first of all it doesn't apply to the citizen and he can sleep peacefully. Fifthly, in the area of agriculture, you know that this year the registration of agricultural producers started and there were some speakers who said - yeah, that registration serves to charge taxes, etc. On the contrary, everyone saw and everyone now knows that this registration serves to benefit farmers. Short-term and long-term agricultural loans have started. As of this year's budget, more attention has been paid to long-term loans, which this year were less. A considerable amount of resources has been allocated for that. Also, diesel fuel tax is abolished, so farmers will be able to buy for 17.00 dinars cheaper liters of fuel for their own purposes. I must point out that significant means are set aside for roads. You know what our travel infrastructure is like in Serbia. And I don't think we've had a number of you when you go to your neighborhoods having the same request from the citizens -- please, let's do it a piece of the time, or -- do something to fix that part of the road. Tax reliefs for next year will significantly relieve the economy, and we have also heard tax exemptions for new employees, which speeds up people's employment. The transition to VAT instead of the budget tax is not envisaged as a significant growth, because it is important for the projection to be good, so if the funds are higher, then it is on the welfare of both the state and its citizens, because we also know that in the environment of the countries applying VAT they have a significant percentage of the profits of new funds. As for Kosovo and Metohija...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9119	Mr. Albianic, are you using another time?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9120	Here, I'm about to finish my presentation. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, I must tell you that significant funds have been allocated here, but we all need to pay attention in all segments of life to people living in Kosovo and Metohija, not to talk about security and other things. We must provide them with normal living conditions in certain matters. As for Kosovo, we have built unity here, but by building unity on basic state issues and by developing interstate co-operation in the environment, we create the necessary conditions for a view of the future. Well, please, as a tree has its solid roots and strong trees, we all need to unite in the most important state issues around that tree, and of course we also need to fuck rotten and dry branches to keep the cross clean and healthy. But I'm telling you -- it takes further strengthening of institutions, that we bring laws here in the Assembly, that we develop a tolerated democratic society, and that we actually become part of Europe, and that our roots are long ago in Europe. G17 plus supports the budget law. I call upon all MPs to support him. The support of the budget is, in fact, the support of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9121	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here's a word from MP Ivica Dacic, head of the SPS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9122	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I am pleased that the Socialist is leading this assembly, and I hope that in the next term, it will be more of a function than the one it is currently in. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS supports the minority government that was formed at the beginning of this year and we do not want to turn the debate on this important issue into a bid and debate on whether our relationship with this bill is a relationship to further survival or the survival of our support to this minority government or not. As far as we are concerned, we believe that there are a number of objections that can be made to the text of the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but the SPS, in view of this strategic decision, will vote for the proposed draft budget law. At first, I would have resented Minister Dinkic and the Ministry of Finance, and I did not notice in the part of the budget concerning the President of the Republic the portion of the funds needed to buy MPs. Does this mean that the President of the Republic and his party will have to use the extra budget funds or the funds of the reserve? I cannot believe that the MP who moved from the DSS to the DS did this because he liked the DS political programme or that the party has a glorious political past, or that the party has some European vision, or that the party has nothing to do with crime and the mafia, or maybe he likes the left-wing ideas of the Democratic Party and the Socialist International. That's why I think you have sinned against the President of the Republic, because he, in the manner of his predecessors from the DS, wants to continue to buy MPs. I think that's the end of it. Someone here mentioned it, Mr. Prorokovic mentioned it, a meeting that was here, I am a participant of that meeting, it was held in early February of this year, then the president of the Assembly, Mr. Marsican, was scheduled to attend the meeting except for the current speaker of parliament, Predrag Markovic, were all heads of parliamentary groups. Back then, Boris Tadic was the head of his parliamentary group, he was, was Tomislav Nikolic, were SPO representatives, was Mr Stevanovic, I was on behalf of the SPS and on behalf of the G17 I think he was Mr Paunovic, then it was said that political parties in Serbia, in the parliament of Serbia, had one gentlemen's and fair agreement, that there was no kidnapping of parliamentary mandates and that the electoral will of citizens was respected. So much for that. They can't be kidnapped by the idea that parliamentary mandates can be stolen. They enjoyed it because of the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. How much Bane Ivkovic believed in the DS program and ideals he was fighting for then you can see now when he entered the party of Bogoljub Karic. Maybe it's basically the same thing and maybe that's it. Therefore, Mr Dinkic, I ask you to pay attention if an amendment is given to allow the President of the Republic of Serbia sufficient funds to buy a mandate. They've now experienced one minus. They bought a parliamentary mandate for nothing. Mr. Djokovic may have to return what he has received, but in any case it is one sufficient lesson and enough instruction for all of us. Here I will read only a part of the stenogram from our session of parliament held on 27 October this year, in which the president of the DS City Committee in Belgrade, Mr. Alimpic, literally says -- in light of the situation in Zemun, when the Democratic Party and Bogoljub Karic wanted to take two of their mandates to their representatives because they voted in favour of the SRS and SPS proposal on the selection of leaders in Zemun -- it is okay for these people to now change their political opinion and become members of the SRS, but it is not good to take the mandates they received as candidates of the other party. It is necessary and normal for them to return their mandate because citizens did not vote for the Radical Party. It is necessary and normal for Mr Djokovic to return his mandate because he was given a mandate in the name of Vojislav Kostunica and the name of the DSS party. And since he is a moral and normal man, he has returned his mandate. Let me say, I hope that the chairman will have a certain dose of tolerance, because I made this introduction to explain the political climate in Serbia, but I will move in the time allowed for the head of the parliamentary club. You know that the SPS insisted at the start of this government's mandate on several principles and I think it is very important that this government takes enough steps towards what is called protection of domestic production. We've defined that there's a major foreign trade deficit. We don't think the government has done enough to protect domestic production yet. That protection can also be customs measures, and it can also be extra-carinal measures. We also believe that the revision of the Law on Privatisation is necessary, i.e. the change of the Privatisation Act, as far as we are informed, most political parties agree. Furthermore, we believe that privatisation should be continued, but on the principle of justice, to prevent robbery and to review those privatisation processes that have been turned into a naked robbery. It is necessary to protect the public interest, so that in the end we do not all wonder when the privatisation of whether our national wealth, banks, all other resources will end up in the hands of foreigners. I ask Minister Dinkic to take us out, or rather Minister Bubalo is in charge of this, who actually bought Serbian businesses and the Serbian economy, who stands behind different names that appear as buyers of certain companies? I hope that next year we will avoid the purchases due to the introduction of value added tax. We hope that the trend in the growth of social gross product and the start of the economy will continue and there will be no inflation beyond the projected amount next year. There must be a reduction in the external trade deficit that is extremely large, which is the largest in our country's history. Also, it's good that certain taxes are lifted. With that policy, it should continue. We believe it is a good tendency to reduce the budget deficit, it is good that this year it is 37% smaller than last year, but our goal must be real budget financing, i.e. there are no deficits at all. Next, pay raise. I would like to say on behalf of the SPS, we will no longer vote for any bill that stipulates that any elected officials, elected or appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have two, three, four, five or ten times the salary of MPs, or which is the average personal income or wages in the Republic of Serbia. It's highly unacceptable. You were talking about demagogy and the need to leave the system of the ravine. We're not leaving this system everywhere except in this case, where the only person who has a salary is known. Why is that and why are some against it? Because they don't live on pay. Whoever's against it means he wants to live on a gray economy, corruption and bribery, and that's why he doesn't need to know what his salary is. We're asking you to report on who has the pay, what the salaries are in public enterprises, which is why these people we've chosen here are so much more important than the people we've chosen. We also ask that the Assembly control the state of public enterprises and that public business directors, i.e. NIS, should be elected here, to be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, public debt. We are threatened by a great danger, as we know, that one day we realize that we are a country that can be bankrupt, that our external and internal debt is so great that we won't be able to get out of it. That's why we need to be very careful in the continued borrowing of our country. It is important to keep in mind whether we have enough gross social product so that we can regularly service our debts. We expect a new labour law, a new law on pension and disability insurance and, of course, expect mandatory social insurance organisations to function normally and have as much of their own income as possible, to be regular pensions, to solve the problem of agricultural pensions, because it is unacceptable that these pensions, which are very small, are 20 and a half months late. Then, we expect normal financing of municipalities and cities, because changing the law and abolishing a certain type of tax can result in a single vacuum in the financing of municipalities and cities. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro; we also expect stable funding, but with a general orientation that there is no need for us to work against the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That is why I find it incomprehensible for some who argue that it is only so easy to resolve the question whether Montenegro will live with Serbia in one country or not. It is not Croatia, it is not BiH, it is Montenegro, in which at least one third of Serbian citizens are. No one has the right to play with it. So we need to approach this issue in a very serious and delicate way. We expect a regular payment of unemployment benefits, fees for Kosovo and Metohija, which are 28 thousand, which are otherwise six months late. We are also against the destruction of the Serbia-Montenegro Army. I don't think the attacks on the Army are going well. We expect social security rights to be achieved regularly, martial law, childcare, social protection, social programme, refugees, scholarships, preschool education, etc. Also, we expect a national housing credit corporation to come into life. We expect the Serbian government to finally adopt the final accounts for 2001, 2002 and 2003. Mr Dinkic, there is no need to protect those who were before you, because they are criticising you that you do not know how to run an economy, that you do not know how to run finance in the Serbian government. Batic has now filed criminal charges against Vojislav Kostunica. Against whom did you file criminal charges against the previous government? You attacked them for crime. If you've been attacking them, either you've been talking empty or you're not doing anything about it and protecting them. We ask that the final budget bill for 2001, 2002 and 2003 be discussed in this assembly. As far as employment is concerned, we've talked about employment several times. In 2000, the state of employment in the Government of the Republic of Serbia was 8,716. On 21 December 2003, meaning by three years the DOS authorities, with 8,000 employment only increased in the government of the Republic of Serbia to 11500. People have been fired for political likeness, received a new one, and talk about rationalization. The People's Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, I think it stands in your draft budget. Where's that body supposed to be? In this assembly there is a Committee on Presentations and Appeals, which works. How many employees does he have? It says here there are 30 people who are employed in the National Office. Let me remind you, it's more than the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, which is so much for Boris Tadic. It is the same as the Office for Joining the European Union. It's more than in the Republic Secretariat of Law and a little less than in the Commissioner for Refugees. If Boris Tadic is going to run his party campaign, he should lead it, but not from the citizens of Serbia. Finally, I would like to say once again that we have made the decision and we will vote in favour of this draft budget. What further strengthened us in this decision? We are all against what the DS is, because we know it is in Serbia's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9123	Let me give you a heads-up. Mr. Dacic, you're absolutely right. Under the law passed in the previous meeting, no final accounts have been handed over. I must tell you that the President of the Assembly's office has been asked to make a request, since the law is unclear in that regard. The finance ministry did not want to work without having final accounts, and at the time it was established, Ms. Djindjic and Mr. Dinkic signed a request to initiate the procedure, and it was not initiated by the Assembly, on the proposal of an independent auditor. I expect that, on this basis, the data on candidates for an independent auditor will arrive to this assembly and then the MPs of this assembly, representing all Serbian citizens, will vote which one will be the auditor. It is necessary that these final accounts be adopted. They will be legally adopted. Mr. Wolfie, here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am using time for replication to better explain what has been happening both in this House and in some parliaments of local self-government. In fact, it can't be the same principle, because in the local self-government of people, no matter what we go to the proportional elections, they know the people they vote for. You could see that in this election. So people still voted for personalities. When you vote at the level of all Serbia and say you know who Djokovic is or someone else, then I'll tell you it's impossible and it's not true. These people, who wanted to support the candidate of Serbian radicals in Zemun – Tatalovic, Delic and Spacious, are honorable and honest people. They just wanted to follow everything Mr. Karic said in his campaign. He said he would fight corruption, crime, for the economic progress of local self-government. That's where those people stayed. That is why they wanted to vote for the Serbian Radicals candidate, and especially against corruption, which until then, I would say, to the greatest extent, has been implementing or making the local DS regime. These people have done nothing against the law or moral norms. Here is the opposite of morality, when you have a party's idea and ideology and then you change the party, and a little who or no one voted for you, but voted globally for the political party, for the political party it belongs to. When I'm talking about this, I'm going to remind you of one case, so that those who were trading today, buying or not buying, doesn't matter, even though they accepted those mandates. At the time, in the Federal Assembly, Momir Vojvodic, as an MP of the People's Party, wanted to move to the SRS, but provided he remained an MP in the Federal Assembly, because the People's Party changed ideology and now needed him to come as a prominent Serb, writer, writer, writer, a man who advocates Serbia-Montenegro's common state and become a Serbian radical. Seselj told him – excellent, it would be my pleasure, it would be an honor to have you over to our place, but for that you have to return the mandate, not to be a Member for a year, a year or a half or two, and after that, you will be an MP in the next term. That's how honest people do it, that's how responsible political parties do it, those political parties that know they appreciate the voice of the people, the voice of the Serbian citizens. Finally, to say that I know and understand the anger of many MPs and for all that is written and all that is said, and because many who earn less have much more than those who criticise a block of MPs, and have ten times the salary, such as some of the editors-in-chiefs of newspapers, etc. I must say that we in the SRS, apart from those conditions that were mentioned earlier, have another condition to increase the salaries of MPs, which is to increase salaries for workers, increase incomes for peasants and pensions for pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9125	According to the Rules of Procedure, only the Administrative Board decides to increase wages. Do any of the other representatives want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9126	Mr. President, I accept your apology. Gentlemen Members of Parliament, members of the Government, the budget law is certainly the most important law the Government proposes every year and which the Assembly is adopting in the debate. Today in the O.R., we don't have an MP group trying to get past the elections, and that's what she was trying to do in the previous assembly, and apparently they're used to doing that. This congregation meeting is much different than any previous one. This assembly, apparently with general agreement, because the decision on the Administrative Committee was taken unanimously, no longer allows for theft, and that is the general agreement of all the parliamentary groups that are in the hall today. One of the MPs, who's not in the O.R. today, is angry. Apparently, when there are no other arguments, they try to replace with anger what are not facts. It's not mentioned in the debate, and I would point out as the first thing if today was November 18th. I have long followed the work of the Assembly, for the first time now I am an MP, but it has never happened before that the budget has appeared in the Assembly Hall. Under the Budget System Act, the government submitted on November 1st, November 2nd, it arrived for debate, and today it is here ahead of us the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's never happened before. On the Finance Committee, a few days ago, we discussed the Commission's report on values for this year, which was passed by the government and the previous majority, which had the opportunity to choose these people, proposed only half this year. As one of the predecessors said, we still haven't discussed the final bill for 2001, 2002 and 2003. They're facts, and anger is for anger. Let those who try to steal mandates get angry. When they were in power, they were unable to do anything within the deadlines set by the law and I wouldn't have gone so easily over the fact that the budget would most likely be adopted in November 20 and some November, which would give the possibility... I'd like the president to allow me to complete the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9127	That's exactly what I'm doing, please, a little quieter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9128	For the first time, all other budget users, for the first time local self-government will have enough time to make sure that by the end of the year, when the deadline for adoption of the budget is correct planning and foresees all that is necessary in 2005. One thing the people of the World Bank and the IMF say in all the talks with us, it's the right choice of priorities. The government has also shown that it is a very important choice of priorities this year. You can't fight all the problems at the same time. You can't solve all the problems at the same time. This year, priorities are restructuring public enterprises, state administration reform, education and health care. It's the right way to solve problems. The DSS Parliament Club is very pleased with the way the budget looks. This budget is incomparably better than the 2003 budget, rather than the proposed 2004 budget, and this is the natural continuation of the budget rebalancing, which we had here a little less than a month ago. Only this kind of planning and the Memorandum that provides for everything that will be in 2006 and 2007 enables us to plan a few years in advance and economic policy and everything that will happen in sectoral policies. This year, gross social product growth of 4.5% is projected. It's much less than it was this year, but it should be kept in mind that the base is now incomparably larger. We've reached a social product of about $2,900 per capita, and it's important to ensure sustainable growth. Any unreal planning would be back to us in a few months, we'd be aware that it can't be done that easily. This government predicts, and all those who have carefully looked at the Memorandum of Economic Policy see, this year 4.5% of growth, next year 5%, and in 2007 5.5% of GDP growth, sustainable growth, and growth every year allows us to continue to correct Serbia and to raise the standards of all our citizens. It is important to point out that the budget deficit of 1.4% is projected this year. International financial organisations tolerate a 3% deficit, and that is allowed for all European Union countries. This significantly lower deficit – of course, we warned the government that it should be very careful with the budget deficit when it is growing, but also when it is decreasing, and that it should take care of other economic policy segments, and not just one -- but this smaller, significantly smaller budget deficit than in previous years, enables us to finally start with real economic relief and to allow various instruments that will help many positive flows in the economy to continue. It is important to note that, this year, significantly smaller funds are forecasted, three times lower, for guarantees and counter-guarantees, than in previous years. We have pointed out several times, and when we adopt the previous budget, and we have just received on the Finance Committee information from the finance minister that our initiative, launched here in the Assembly, is being realised, because one body will be envisaged, which in each new borrowing will establish the economic criteria of this borrowing, to determine the real growth of gross social wealth from each new borrowing, and in the previous period, no one has accounted for it. The previous government, the DS government, envisioned 257 billion guarantees and counterguarantees last year without anyone taking care of any real effects such borrowing would have. If borrowing doesn't raise the level of social wealth, then such borrowing doesn't make any sense, then it's just survival from today to tomorrow. We are absolutely in agreement with the priorities presented by the government to the National Assembly, the restructuring of public enterprises, the making of public enterprises significantly more efficient and, of course, the reform of the state administration. The state administration, the law has just arrived in the assembly procedure, has to be more efficient, has to be more rational and has to be appropriate to a state like Serbia today, suitable for all those costs the state of Serbia and Serbia's economy is able to separate. We pointed out that a new tax form has been in effect since 1 January. On the Committee on Finance, the DSS MPs insisted that all MPs be familiar and that the public be familiar with all the measures that the Ministry is taking, in order to bring this new tax form closer to all people in the economy and to enable it to be applied in the most appropriate way. We can commend the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which today presented to all MPs, and also to the public, a guide for the implementation of the VAT, which will certainly allow for a month-and-a-half-day period, how long until the start of the application of a new tax form that brings us closer to many developed countries, as soon as possible, to all the elements that are relevant to its application. Of course, this budget is not ideal, but obviously the government's policy shows that in the area of public finances too much is changing, and the budget is much better than the previous one, which surely assures us that the next budget will be significantly better than this. Of course, there are many problems in the area of privatisation and in all those areas of social life that we've talked about here. But this budget gives confidence that every day this government makes Serbia better and better, and that the next budget will be significantly better than this, and that we will discuss all the successes of this government in this assembly room.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9129	Thank you, Mr. Beard. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted all the parliamentary groups. I give my word to the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, and let the MP Goran Knezevic be prepared, and if there is no Goran Knezevic, the next MP will be Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9130	Dear President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian government, fellow MPs, Social Democratic Party MPs, represented by three MPs in this parliament, have two serious objections to the proposed budget law. I won't say what the benefits of the budget are, they certainly do, because I don't have enough time, I'm not in the parliamentary group, and that's why I'm going to be very concise. The first remark refers to something we loudly announced in the public in April, when this assembly passed the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. This law, as you know, provides for a committee to take care of the lack of conflict of interest. He is in charge of taking care of this aspect, both in cities and municipalities, at the level of the entire Republic, and not to say that he has to serve all those relatives, stands to the exact knee, which also cannot break that law, in the way it is prescribed. I must regret to conclude that this draft budget law has in no way provided for the means to function of this very important committee, because we as the Assembly, or the ruling majority in the Assembly, but also as a government, have very loudly announced this law, praising it, and it has received broad public support. Now that it is to be applied in practice, there is no single dinar for its operation. I'm afraid if it stays that way, or if the amendment to the SDP, which we have filed, which repairs the situation, is not adopted, that both this committee and this law will remain a dead letter on paper, as well as some other committees. Also, I would like to remind you that the Lustration Committee, which doesn't actually work, has received funds through the budget, and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has no dinars. Mr. Finance has tried to explain to me on the Finance Committee that there are some funds in the section relating to the Assembly. However, I remind you that this committee must have nothing to do with the Assembly, that it is a republican committee, that it should be an independent committee, because it takes care and is primarily directed to prevent conflict of interest among MPs, and then to our other appointed, elected and similar officials. For this reason, in order to be consistent and not to be demagogues and to talk about important laws in theory rather than implement them in practice, I ask that the amendment of the SDP, when it comes to order, accept and therefore an obvious oversight, I think it is a matter of correcting it. The second observation by us from the SDP concerns the funds that this budget has defined for Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia. I must say that the minister is also several times on the Finance Committee, and also on this speaker, said that this budget is bigger than any other one for Kosovo and Metohija, and he carried out a figure which, I must admit, is not clear to me, because I failed to reach it, that about 3,800,000 dinars are scheduled for that part of Serbia. However, when we look at the items, that the work of the Coordination Centre is foreseen by the budget of 2,250,000 dinars, including salaries for the local administration, including social contributions, so we have 453 million, as far as it goes across all the ministries of the government of the Republic of Serbia, 350 gives the Council of Ministers or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and another 300 million is accounted for through extra stamps, it is a total of 3.350,000 for Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia. And also, I have to say right away, when you look at it like that, it's an increase, but basically, it's an optical trick. Here's why. The salaries are scheduled for the Kosovo and Metohija Co-ordination Centre, which is planned to pay 1,200,000 dinars. I have to say, that's enough for 10 months' payouts, since the monthly salary fund has been 120,000,000 so far. If you take into account that there are still five salaries missing, i.e. the delay is local administration, in order to catch up with health care and education, this amount increases significantly, and not only is it not enough of these 1.200,000, but 840,000,000 should be increased to make all these salaries and social benefits realistically covered, i.e. that the Coordination Centre would not tomorrow be a body that would not have enough resources that, on the basis of the real claims of people, who have the right to do so, would pay. Also, I have to say that in this division of 2,250,000, certain funds are scheduled to be set out in article 20 of this law for social giving, development programme, cultural heritage programme and other projects. When you see how realistic it is for wages and social contributions, there is absolutely no single dinar left for these projects, although it is in article 20 of this budget. As far as the ministries are concerned, I'd like to make a pretty striking comparison. In fact, over all the ministries of the Republic of Serbia, it is predicted that for Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia, 453 million total go. So, comparisons work -- for BIA purposes, only in the economic classification of 511 sub-buildings and buildings, it is planned for BIA 400,000, over all ministries 50,000 more for Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia than for BIA. There are several examples of very significant ones. For example, when it comes to the Ministry of Energy and Mining, 4,988,000,000 is foreseen. That's enough just to finish the building that's with Elektrokosmet, which is an integral part of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, which is made, means the Elektroditration Building, because the old one remains unusable for the Serb population, because it is located in the southern part of Mitrovica. So this projected asset only covers the debt. According to the Coordination Centre, however, it is absolutely necessary to do two more trafostations in the central part of Kosovo and Metohija and Kosovo Pomoravlje, so that this built building in general makes sense, i.e. that the electricity could reach the village and enclaves, and in the second phase of the Republic to charge that electricity from our residents in Kosovo and Metohija. Each of these cells costs 30 million dinars, which means it's about 5 million, and it needs 65 million. Another drastic example -- a total of 800m dinars for all Serbia are foreseen within the capital investment ministry, hence 22m for Kosovo and Metohija for internally displaced people's programmes. I have to tell you that this 22 million is enough just to pay off the debt that we as the Republic have towards the construction organisation of the German government of THV, because it is an arrangement that they make the foundations, and that the state of Serbia pays Ivanji to the assembly house that will put on those foundations for the purpose of returning internally displaced persons to Kosovo and Metohija. There are more than 2,000 families who are now ready to return to Kosovo and Metohija if they are provided with a roof over their heads. If you do not believe, you can go around Belgrade, Avala, Mirievo, Lestane, and ask people who live there in terrible conditions, whether they would stay here or return to Kosovo and Metohija. We are constantly, as a state, and this government, potentiating Kosovo and Metohija and returning refugees as priority number one. In practice, however, there is not a single dinar for this kind of project, which was normally needed, if we multiply those 2,000 families times a million and 600,000, as long as it takes for one house, it's about three billion and 200,000 million dinars. We, of course, are not saying that this budget can make everything possible, we understand the intensity of the restrictions, but we need to give a positive signal that the state is willing to do so in practice. I didn't want to answer with the replica, I stayed in debt to Mr. Vukic, I think it's okay to explain, since he mentioned 300 and a few thousand for some public toilet, which absolutely doesn't stand for information. He's put that kind of remark on before, so I've got a prepared answer for it. So it's about building a school yard, playground, building a sewerage network for a primary school near Strpce, with 500 students and 12 departments. It's not 300 and a few thousand, as Mr. Vucic said, but it's two million and 90,000 dinars, which means a lot more, and every dinar can be justified by simple insight into the co-ordination center's accounts. I don't think it should be that easy to accuse some people, who in one difficult space, in any way, have done very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9131	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. You'll cross-reference the data later. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Let MP Igor Mirovic be prepared. I apologize to Ambassador Suzana Grubjesic, the minister asked for the word before.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9132	Only briefly on these two remarks by Nestorovic. As regards any institution to be formed, only after the establishment of the institution is the granting of funding from the current budget reserve. Of course, it is important to provide funds for the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and certainly, as soon as the Committee is formally established, that the Government, which proposed this law, will approve the funds from the current budget reserve for the financing of the Committee's work. It's not about the big funds. We also have it in the current reserve for this year and next year. As for Kosovo and Metohija, I would like to say this: it is true that the budget is set at three billion 353 million dinars for Kosovo and Metohija, and last year it was one billion and 650. Not everything is intended to be spent through the Coordination Centre, but this does not mean that it will not invest in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija if it is invested through other ministries in the government. Funds from an extra postage stamp, worth 300m dinars, of course, will be channelled through the ministry, which will decide when the government decides what priorities they are. If he decides it's a restoration of cultural heritage, then it will be realized by the Ministry of Culture. If he decides it's a matter of time, then capital investments. They don't have to go through the Coordination Centre. On the contrary, I think it's better and more effective to go through the relevant competent resolution ministries. Also, there is – from the funds for the international community organisations' programmes they give 20%, 104 million, but international organisations additional 400 million, so the total figure is 3.8, which is what Mrs. Nestorovic didn't see how we calculated. Finally, I would like to say that these are not all the investments of this country for southern Serbia, especially for Kosovo and Metohija, because Serbia's electricity industry pays 2.2 billion dinars annually for workers who don't actually work, but this is some kind of solidarity and they just sometimes participate in the work of remonts. The same is done by the tax administration, the post office, Telekom and other public enterprises, out of solidarity. You know that in Kosovo and Metohija wages are twice as high as in Serbia. You know that even all the people who are registered receive these salaries do not work on the jobs they have been reported for, but out of solidarity, knowing that it is important for Serbia for today's people living in Kosovo and Metohija, these payments are being made. Meanwhile, a working group has been established to determine whether the people who are registered for these salaries live in the territory at all, because we believe they should double the salaries of those who live because they are not the same conditions as in Belgrade, Nis and other cities. But for those who do not live, these duties must be abolished, those who have been formally reported and live in Belgrade, work in Subotica, for sure that these funds are not needed. The government will certainly continue to take care of Kosovo and Metohija, both politically and financially.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9133	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. I'm sorry, we'll have to do the replica first.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9134	I have to report to Article 97 of attitude 1 because I'm misread. I didn't insist at all, that's what I want to point out, because the president of the Social Democratic Party and the head of the Coordination Centre, I don't want this to turn out to be the urgency that he's personally getting the money. So it's not the intensity at all that the coordination center or the body gets the money. Money can be transferred by the government, it has the right to reroute it through the ministries, it's important to reach the end-user. It is not important to go to the body and the centre, even more – the body and the centre should not pay any pensions or social benefits. If it can't be paid out of profit tax, like all local self-governments, it's supposed to be working on resolute ministries. That's number one. Number two, I have to say once again, the amount that has been determined through the ministries for Kosovo and Metohija is too small, it is less than 500 million. Once again, 400 million were planned for BIA buildings and facilities. No dinar is foreseen for the recovery of earthquakes, which is the start of the project, has been invested 200 million, it needs 700 more to be given for Kosovo's Pomoravalje. In the same division, where capital investment should be the case, stands for the same project in the Kolubar region where the earthquake was in 1998, 500 million were allocated. Why are you making the difference between two parts of Serbia and Montenegro, or Serbia? Why they can separate the money for a part located in central Serbia, and they can't go where it's hit, in southern Serbia, that is, Kosovo and Metohija. It is a bad message for both our citizens and those who want Kosovo and Metohija to be an integral part of Serbia. So, I'm looking not for the Coordination Centre and the Body, but for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, of which we expect, if they are evicted, to return, and if they are there, to stay. So, in practice, and not only in national demagogy, you should apply what you have declared national priority number one.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9135	We understand Mrs. Nestorovic. Just to remind you, the member you've been calling doesn't apply to this situation at all. He explicitly says that if the MP in his presentation is abusively expressing himself or misreading another MP, he has the right to reply, which is decided by the speaker of the assembly. That's bet 3. Finally, the word has the People's MP Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Minister, today we have launched a principle debate on the 2005 draft budget law, and if I were to say in one sentence what the budget is, then I would say that it is a realistic and restrictive budget that has no alternative, because there is more money in the state register and the budget would be more exhaustive. On 1 November this year, the Serbian government unanimously adopted a draft budget law for 2005, as well as a Memorandum of Budget, Economic and Fiscal Policy for next year, with projections for 2006 and 2007. This sets a course towards which Serbia should move on the economic path for the next three years, and we, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should confirm this direction of movement with this debate. I'm going to say briefly what were the basic characteristics of 2004 in the economic field. This is, above all, a high growth rate of industrial production, about 6%, then agriculture 12%, social gross product growth 8%, inflation growth slightly above planned, means about 12% by the end of the year, restrictive fiscal and monetary policy and slowing down the privatisation process. Economic policy for 2005 is based on five points. These are the continuation of such a restrictive monetary policy, a firm budgetary restriction in fiscal policy, wage policy, economic restructuring and accelerated privatisation. The main element of macroeconomic policy is to maintain economic stability and realistic long-term economic growth. The goal is for inflation to be one-digit, and such an inflation rate will support all policies, primarily fiscal. The goal is also to reduce the external trade deficit from the current 13% to 12% next year. The continuation of the restrictive monetary policy and the firm budgetary limit also means reducing the budget deficit to 1.4% and spending to 45.5% of the social gross product. Just to remind you that the budget rebalance, which we adopted here in October, the budget deficit is reduced to below 2.5% of the social gross product, and that in the 2005 budget it is further reduced to 1.4%. If, by respecting international standards, the principal is paid off to domestic lenders, which is primarily old foreign exchange savings, and the repayment of loans for Serbia's rebirth would not count as a budget deficit, then public finances for 2005 even envisioned a surplus of 1.9 billion dinars. This proposed solution leaves open the possibility that a three-year arrangement with the IMF will be successfully brought to an end, with at least two good consequences. First, an additional 15% of the debt to the Paris Trustee Club will be written off, and secondly, this belt tightening in public spending should boost the competitiveness of the domestic economy and support its anti-inflation growth. Public sector wages grew significantly during 2001, 2002, 2003 and somewhat slower in 2004, but this increase was not based on productivity gains. In the period from 2000, better said in 2001 to 2004, real earnings increased by 114%, while productivity increased by only 16.5%. For example, in this year's salary increased by 8% and productivity increased by 6.6%. Although the average net profit is low and in September was 14,444 dinars, this breakthrough in the profit sector has a significant impact on the increase in the external trade deficit. Salary growth was mainly overrun in the purchase of imported goods, which also pressured prices to rise. The state can neither, nor should deal with private sector wages, but can affect the profits paid out of the budget, as well as the salary policy in public enterprises where the state is setting up management. So, if he wants to, the state can control salaries for over half of Serbia's employees. The average wage mass according to budget projections will not be able to rise by more than 7%, which of course does not mean that individual salaries will not be able to grow. As regards the restructuring of public enterprises, conditions have been created to separate themselves from the basic activities and to provide compensation for those workers who want to leave voluntarily and find another job. The ambition is to finally put public enterprises on the agenda, but also the remaining 63 out of the 67 major social firms, which should previously be organised and financial consolidated, which means resolving debt-confidential relations in that magical triangle of the bank-state company. Large debts are the main brake and obstacle to the rapid privatisation of these companies. In the first phase, the transitions were privatised mainly by well-being companies, while those who remained in trouble and were much harder to privatise. The Transition Fund will be twice as big as this year and will amount to five billion dinars for these purposes next year, according to budget projections. It will serve to pay workers who, as a technological surplus, leave their businesses. Despite the full depletion of the privatisation process in the first half of 2004, the inflow of foreign direct investment is nevertheless encouraging. By the end of the year, an inflow of about 700 million dollars can be expected, without some large sales of enterprises, which is in line with the plan for this year. However, a significantly higher privatisation revenue of around 25 billion dinars is expected next year, and part of the surplus privatisation revenues of about seven billion dinars should be transferred to the PIO Fund to pay off half of the so-called pensioners. A big debt. Over the next year, 396.1 billion dinars will be poured into the state register and 416.6 billion dinars will be spent. So the budget deficit is 20.5 billion dinars, one third lower than this year. It will be covered with eight billion dinars of privatisation revenues, five billion dinars of credit and donations from international financial organisations and institutions, and for the rest of the 6.8 billion dinars, the state will be in debt on the domestic financial market. The bulky side of the budget shows that the main growing item is public debt service. The total cost for these purposes will be 46.3 billion dinars. It'll be bigger by 13.6 billion dinars than this year. Why is that? Well, according to the 2005 Law on the settlement of old foreign savings, linear payments to savings have ceased, and in the future those with higher stakes will receive significantly more. According to budget projections, compensation for social protection has been significantly increased, by around 9.5 billion dinars, and social contributions have been provided, all those in need will receive them. About seven billion will be used to address the unemployment problem, which will be caused by the economic restructuring process. The subsidies to the economy are still significant, but it will still be less than 1.5 billion dinars, a clear sign that the government will not support the survival of companies using taxpayers' money to cover their losses. The agricultural budget remains the same as this year, so 20 billion dinars, as well as subsidies for agriculture, amounting to 11 billion dinars. On the revenue side of the budget, there has been a shift from taxation of wages to taxation of consumption, primarily through value added tax and excise duties. This year, budget revenues are otherwise about 20% higher than last year and this trend will continue in the coming period. It can be concluded from the above that the 2005 budget is restrictive, but that the austerity policy has no alternative if sustainable economic development is to be desired. We have to face the fact that Serbia is a poor country, that we have to do much more and that we can only share what we earn. We from G17 plus have always been ready to tell Serbian citizens the truth, whether it is painful or not. Serbia's economy needs serious, comprehensive economic reforms. They've been done only in certain parts so far, and never in general. They can be delayed, some false promises can be made for gaining political points, but they are necessary and unforgivable. If the government fails to implement them during its term of office, the same problems will be met by another government. That is why we think that as soon as possible we need to move forward with comprehensive economic reforms. Otherwise, we will also become unattainable countries from the nearest environment, which are taking big steps towards the European Union, but in which their political, economic, social, cultural and other elites have reached consensus on the direction in which the country should go. Unfortunately, we in Serbia have not yet experienced it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9137	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, I'm not going to give you a replica, because it was a replica on the line, but you can do it for the Rules of Procedure. Just a minute, please, just listen to me. Ms. Nestorovic has called to speak a replica to you, and I can give you my word in the Rules of Procedure for misreading Right? [[Glasses - replica was minister.]] That's right. I'm sorry, in both cases, I'm giving you a replica, but I'm asking you to take care of the weather. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the reasons why the SRS will not vote as all other parliamentary groups complex in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We'll be the only ones against the budget, and I've now brought specific data that I'm going to read to you. I apologize to all the MPs, I really made a mistake today. It's not 345,000 dinars to the Polish toilet, it's a septic cave of 340,000 dinars in Novi Brdo, and 555,000 is a septic cave in Gjilan. So much that you have in mind. I'm really sorry I made a mistake. I hope the MPs will accept it, but I'm sorry, I thought the septic tank was much cheaper, they don't need the planks for the septic pit. One more thing. Why won't we vote? Because this Coordination Centre spent huge money on Serbian citizens without doing any good for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. It says so - from 2 August 2001 to 29 February 2004, it was spent only on hotel accommodation and catering services for members of the Return Coalition 1.159.000 dinars. Apparently, the hungry were members of the Return Coalition. The people hungry, naked and barefoot, and they feast. It says gas costs for the Coordination Centre and the Coordination Body, members of the Return Coalition and lawyers of 2.236.702 dinars. Costs of purchase and maintenance of equipment, service of vehicles, maintenance of facilities and equipment, office materials and telephone services – 3,664,617 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's why MPs, among other things, cannot support the budget. One more thing, someone here was saying – can we talk about it without speaking personally or politically insecurely about how much the President of the Republic's budget is and how much the Parliament's budget is? Here's an example. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a budget here in March 2004 for the National Assembly of 1,500,000 dinars, which is for 2004. Today, we have a total budget of 754 million. Nice. Saved the National Assembly. President of the Republic - we had a budget of 33 million for 2004, today we have 184 million. The 50% national assembly, excellently, saves for Serbian citizens, does not have to give that much money, and for the president of the Republic, 600% increase. Who deserved it? With what? Because of the fact that people live harder and there are no new jobs, there are no higher salaries, pensions, the people want to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-18-0.u9139	So that there is no confusion, the data that has been read about costs is not data from the budget, but from the report. Since the time has expired, although I have warned you, Mr Vukic, three minutes ago, on the basis of Article 81(4), because it is an extremely important issue on the agenda – Serbia's budget, the session will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 152 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Slobodan Mihajlović, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, Vladan Vukicevic and Goran Svilanovic; (at noon) Slavoljub Matic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005. IN THE framework of this point, we are considering a Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy for 2005, with projections for 2006 and 2007, and proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans of the Funds and services for the year in the agenda. I'd like to inform you that we have an apology from the minister, he'll be joining us any minute, he's here, but he's doing some consulting in the Assembly. Before I give my word to the MP, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djokovic has the word.
