ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5161	Ladies and gentlemen, the value added tax was brought back to the Federal Assembly in 1998, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. According to the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Application of the Constitutional Charter, the competent Republic authorities are obliged to apply this law today. Why isn't that done? It's a question for a government official who's not here today. So much for the praises and the current ruling majority, as well as these previous dossos, that the world came into existence on October 5, 2000. You see, it's not, it's a long time ago. Serbia was created long before and it worked long before you. The law that was passed in 1998 is even better than the proposal that the Serbian government offered us today or yesterday for adoption, and for this reason we in the SRS think that this law did not have to be rushed. So we have a law that's better than this and this shouldn't have been our priority. To avoid confusion, to avoid any abuses already heard in the media these days, the SRS thinks that this law, or law on value added tax, should be passed, but we do not think it should be the law in the proposed text and should not be passed at this point, although it has been heard here that this law should have been passed even earlier. We think we should have waited a little longer. It is the SRS' view that the state should pass laws that are in favour of Serbian citizens. This law is only in favour of filling Serbia's budget. It is our general and principled position that the state must take care of its citizens. A few days ago, a DS official said that we would join European integration in 2011 and that we would have to move on with preparations immediately. You misrepresented the adoption of value added tax law. You were supposed to contribute to reviving the economy, to stripping the chains and locks. To remind you, the removal of chains and locks in the Serbian citizens' election campaign has promised Triumvirat Tadic, Kostunica, Karic. Ladies and gentlemen, you think wrongly if you think you're coming to Europe with a tram called Tadic's wish. We cannot enter Europe with a destroyed economy, we cannot enter with a million unemployed, with another million in perspective, which are promised to us by certain media ministers. Not Europe, ladies and gentlemen, a ruined economy. That is why, in normal countries, this law is passed amongst the last laws under the rules of conduct. Why are we stressing this? Because we are sure that the application of VAT laws will destroy even more, and this little economy that has not yet been destroyed, that new chains and locks will be put on, because the economy has no available resources, because to pay VAT, bank loans that are, you know, very expensive, much more expensive than anywhere in Europe will have to be used. This must inevitably cause inflation. In addition, Radovan Jelasic, who already announces that the euro will go to 80 dinars by the end of the year. It also announces a new 500 dinar bill. All of these are the preconditions for inflation, i.e. the beginning of disclosure that inflation already exists and that the story of a stable dinar was a colorful lie. In any case, SRS MPs believe that if this value added tax law is to be passed, and if we want this law to really make sense, that its application does not harm the citizens of Serbia, that it does not destroy the economy, that it is necessary to adopt amendments that the SRS has submitted, or our parliamentary group, to this law. The amendments, believe us, are extremely well-intentioned, because we care that this law, when you pass it, is not a law that will be a stone on our necks. Our amendments are characterized by economic and social conditions in Serbia, and we believe and we believe that this is the basic thing that the Serbian government and government in Serbia need and must take care of. Now I will brief only on some members of the law which, of course, will be spoken more in particular about the amendments. For example, in Article 4, you provided for the exchange of goods for other goods or services; among other things, it says – the income shown above the amount established by the act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We think this can't stand like this, that it's necessary to regulate this by law, that it's really high time to stop ruling regulations. All of you in the ruling coalition had significant objections and the previous government in election campaigns precisely because of the rule of law, and it seems all that you told the citizens, because you knew that the citizens wanted to hear it and that it suits them, you are now doing it as if you never promised anything otherwise. In Articles 6 and 7, you give certain powers to the minister. We also think it's inappropriate, that what you predicted for the minister should be in the government's jurisdiction. It's one thing that we Serbian radicals don't trust the current Minister Dinkic, but even so, we don't think that any minister should be given such authority, that the government is generally responsible for the application of the law and therefore the Government should have such powers. In Article 8, we predicted that farmers should be deleted from a group of taxpayers, because we believe that agriculture must be freed from VAT, if we care that at least agriculture in Serbia is not completely destroyed, because it has already been destroyed as much as possible. In article 11, you predicted a place of transport of goods. This is the place, among other things, of water, electricity, gas and heat. It's really amazing, like you're talking about a country that's in prosperity, that you're legalizing to pay taxes even on water. My dear colleagues, it is too much for a rich country, let alone for this poor Serbia. Article 23 lists the goods for which a general rate of 18% was first established, and a special rate of 8%. We have suggested that this member be deleted and it is indeed necessary, and we believe that basic daily supplies and products must be released from VAT. We mustn't put citizens in a situation where they can't buy bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible oil, heating, textbooks, etc., I can't count it all now, but you'll hear when we talk about the details. Article 24 states where VAT will not be paid. We think that those products that are mentioned in Article 23 should be entered here. In Article 26, in the first position, we proposed to delete points 2), 3), 4), because practice showed that what you provided for these points in the customs procedure was temporarily imported and re-exported, as well as about the placing of customs procedures, the active processing with the system of disposal, etc., that this was, in practice, the largest source of the grey economy so far. Don't, please, talk about eliminating the gray economy by banning people from selling on the markets to survive, reselling some products on the edges of the market, and then boasting that you have abolished the gray economy, and that real gray economy that destroys the state, which destroys the economy, the citizens of Serbia, even predicts by law. That is inadmissible, according to the SRS. In Article 34, we also suggested that agricultural producers should be deleted from this article, with the same reason that it is necessary to free agriculture from VAT payments. You boasted when you were making the budget that you increased the agrarian budget three times. The citizens who deal with agriculture well felt that your three times as much actually means three times less, and even now to pay VAT on agricultural products, let's tell them -- it doesn't care about the state for farmers, you know how you know and know. Be open, tell the citizens of Serbia what you do to them through these laws. Not every citizen can get to know the law so that he knows what the law really means, because he hears you on all televisions, that it is now a VAT law that will create prosperity in Serbia, and within two or three months of its application, it will feel what it really means and how devastating it is for the citizens of Serbia. The criminal provisions you've provided for are truly disastrous. The fines from 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars will punish the debtor for the violation, and then you list in which cases. This is amazing that you're predicting such high amounts of punishment. In addition, these criminal provisions already exist in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We're not just going to charge our budget with fines and punish them twice for the same offense. I understand the need for Minister Dinkic and the Serbian government to fill the budget, that is, the government's obligation, but the government would also have to take care of citizens who are filling the budget. Finally, in Article 68 which speaks of the start of the application of this law, we suggested that it should not be on 1 January 2005, but in 2006, although it is early, given that we are too far from entering European integration and we are on every day. If the current minister and the current government remain five or six months in power, this means that within five or six years, we will be able to extend that deadline from the date set – 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5162	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Replica, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5163	Mrs. Radeta, please, one replica is sent to you. To be clear, the DSS participates in the republican government and know that neither the DSS MPs nor that part of the republican government will ever support people like those who have become rich in hard trouble. As a Firefighter, I can tell you that people like Bogoljub Karic have just made those locks that are now in some industries that meet even in those pre-election videos of God's name Karic himself. I can tell you that part of his corporation's work has failed a fire-fighting bank that was the headquarters of the fire industry and that you know that DSS MPs can't support people who, during the 1991 primary show, raised huge money for alleged plants, small plants in Kosovo and Metohija, and then, during the 1993-1994 inflation wave, maybe to the value of a pack of cigarettes, they were returning it. So these are not DSS partners, and I ask you not to abuse this pay phone in the future and especially not to put the DSS in such a context.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5164	Thank you. The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and let the MP Goran Jaksic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5165	I thought, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that my predecessor would mention both Beobank and Investbank and Jugobank, and then I remember that they failed under Dinkic, not at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, preparing for this item of the agenda, since I am not an economist, I have tried to find what people of the profession and science have said about the law of added value, about VAT. I find an interview on June 15th, where Professor Dejan Popovic praised the VAT, so I wonder why we didn't introduce it a few years ago. In 1998, we introduced this at the federal level, which we had not introduced in 2000, when it was so good, and given the fact that Dejan Popovic was a deputy minister, a member of the government and all his doors were open. He was at the Eighth Congress, but he wasn't a member at the time... (President: Please do not disturb the speaker.) Here you go, Mr. Markovic. ) What particularly pleased me from Dejan Popovic's interview, he said - when the EU joins Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, Serbia will be surrounded by countries where European rules will apply. Unfortunately, it has a period of another ten years and we will be a sort of isolated island in the EU. We could use our misfortune by attracting some multinational companies to come and locate their capital with us, and not to read any further. Then we would be Segedin and Bucharest, at the time of inflation, what Segedin and Bucharest meant for Serbia, that would be for the countries of the European Community, newly formed. In other words, Croatians, Romanians, Hungarians, Bulgarians will come to us for flea markets to buy rags, to survive, to buy food, because Prof. Popovic predicted it so much. Then what are we going to do in Europe? Let's stay open island, let's all come to our place, get rich that way. (President: I warn the People's MPs, without throwing them away. Go on, Mr. Markovic. ) In the end, Popovic said - value added tax is dessert, but the main dish should first be provided, and the main dish is an ambience in which the investor will feel secure, in which he will know that his investment has a stable, correct and legal framework, that the courts will be able in an effective way to protect his interests. Who, gentlemen, prevented you from creating that ambience from the bulldozer of the revolution in 2000, so that we could have a main meal, not just dessert. Then I remember as deputy minister he was in the government and now he's the head of Belgrade University. So much for not paying off the Dosmania politics. Prof. Dr. Zarko Ristic, professor of the Faculty of Economics, who, in addition to the rest of the handover and this, says - usually points out that value added tax has a more significant advantage compared to retail tax, is more issued as a budget income, more effective in countering tax evasion and a more capable tax exemption process. Every taxpayer must, in addition to all the records he's kept so far, prepare a lot of records to lead, so that he doesn't accidentally break the law, and, as Mrs Radeta says, the honourable SRS MP, comes into the situation to be punished from 100,000 to 1,000 dinars. "Introducing a tax on additional value, as a rule," the professor said, "is implying making rigorous preliminary analyses on the effects of applying the tax on prices, on social implications, from a lower-income household point of view. It is extremely important to foresee the impact of tax rates on the added value of food, medicines, electricity, heating, water, services, public transport, orthopedic aids, funeral services, PTT services, books, newspapers, magazines etc." Too bad the minister isn't here today, so to explain again to the Serbian citizens, that explanation to me was not clear enough, that 108 would be less than 100, because books, magazines, newspapers, medicines will be burdened with 8% of value added tax. If something is 100 dinars and another 8 dinars - 108 dinars, how is it less than 100 dinars? He forgot that some things had been tax-free, and some of these types of goods and services had been required for three or four years by Serbian radicals to free themselves of taxes, goods of broad consumption, most necessary for mere survival. Finally, he says, "In transition economies, which have blindly accepted value added tax as the backbone of modern fiscal reform, there has been an increase in retail prices, economic borrowing of the economy, a decline in purchasing power, a rise in costs, a decrease in sales, a rise in cost of life and a double increase in the income of the state. "Is the aim of introducing a value added tax to dissipate the economy, that those locks are removed, and that these companies also begin to function, or is the primary objective of the value added tax to fill the budget. It's more like it's a different one, because now the budget sounds like an empty barrel. We know that some 40 billion in the beginning was empty. Minister Dinkic intends to fill, if nothing else, with the skin of Serbian citizens, which he will take off their backs. In the end: "The old truth that a state that affects too much from the value of national production can lead to a failure of the economy, in which production reduction will inevitably reduce the tax base and increase the tax rate". By doing so, Karic will no longer have to put chains and locks on, according to an esteemed colleague. The company directors themselves and the company workers themselves will have to put chains and locks on. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the introduction of value added tax, and I have no reason not to trust the professor to whom it is trade and bread, inflation will immediately increase from 5% to 25%. The only positive effects of the introduction of this law, without the adoption of those amendments that we have talked about, will be what the budget will be full of. The fact that science, culture, education, health will cost a lot more, it seems that neither Minister Dinkic nor I can see this yet few ruling majority is interested. I have a proposal for Mr. Minister: since there is no more way to raise funds, let him apply the old method, and he knows very well how to provide the funds – a sock on his head, a rifle in his hands, and then in the National Bank, there is money.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5166	The People's MP Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5167	Dear Chairman, the presidency, honourable MPs, we have yet another very important law on the agenda of this assembly of Serbia. This will, for its part, be one of, unfortunately, a small number of laws that support all MPs and all parliamentary groups, although some of these parliamentary groups, which consider this to be a good law or at least a national right thing for Serbia, will still not vote. Of course, they will have an explanation for that for the citizens of Serbia. G17 plus belongs to those political groups, those parties who have a positive view of this law and who will vote in favour of this law. We've got plenty of reasons. The most basic reason is that this is a new, very advanced form of taxation which is unfortunately a little late for application in our tax system, but has long lived and is very successful in most European and significant countries in the world. What is the main thing is, it is a form of tax burden, i.e. taxation, which is intended to act stimulatingly, first of all, according to the economy, but it is seen in the bill that its stimulantness is also with the citizens of Serbia. Three aspects are very interesting, which should certainly be mentioned and which citizens will see in the application of this law, but which should be announced before its adoption. This is a fairer and more even distribution of the tax burden, which has been a major problem so far and a major regret for the traffic tax advocate. A more balanced distribution will also have its consequence, practically, the elimination of the gray economy, because it will not be in anyone's interest to deal with people who are not registered, who do not pay VAT, but the whole system will affect the reduction of the gray economy at all, and very directly. These are the experiences that have been shown to us by countries before us that have entered the VAT system, which have several times increased budget filling, where there has been a complete abolition of the grey economy. The second aspect is more efficient filling the republican budget. I'm going to say something about this in the end, because there have been different interpretations of this, in our opinion, very positive consequences, not just the positive consequences of the law, but the positive consequences for the citizens, when this law is applied. Third, the continuation of this government's incentive policy towards and economy, as well as the standard of every citizen of ours. In terms of 18% of the overall rate and 8% of the special rate in most European countries, the situation is very different. For example, in Denmark, the overall rate is 25%, in Croatia 21%, in Australia 20%. A very small number of countries have a percentage or two lower overall VAT rate. That shows how much government is using this bill, which, I must say, is corrected by the earlier bill, which was 20% plus 5%, and here we have 18%. So a small number of countries have progressive forms of this kind of taxation. It's the UK and some other country, where by just one or two percent the basic tax rate. What's very interesting, I'm going to set a few things aside, is direct promotion of exports, because the bill frees all export jobs from VAT payments. It's tax release with so-called. Zero rate, because it also includes the right to deduct the previously paid tax. This shows the government's intention is directly to work through export-enhancing policies on those programmes most of the parties have here, and G17 plus, in their pre-election programmes. Then, tax exemptions or VAT on the entry of goods into free zones and the provision of services therein. I'm going to try something else to say about this subject -- this is the first time that we've seen this in our economy. We've never had a tax solution like this before. Free zones were not exempt from sales taxes, so those who provided services in free zones, but also those who worked in free zones, had no such forms of tax exemption, nor of importing goods, nor of working in free zones. This will directly affect, and already some intensities arise, i.e. the intention of new investors in free zones to take advantage of this new law, which will, of course, be related to the new law on free zones, which will directly result in, hopefully, a large number of new greenfield investments, which are still rare in us, which is the future of our economy. Free zones are a place that, with this tax exemption, will be very suitable for new investments, in which we will have direct installation of facilities and the opening of companies that will deal with production. Also, the release from VAT in free zones and the general introduction of VAT with such tax rates will affect the countries of our environment, which will unfortunately enter the European Union before us, i.e. investors who are now working in those countries will retire to Serbia, will invest their resources, and above all we expect in - free zones, because of the benefits they provide with this law, but also in Serbia at all, and in such a way we will use, hopefully very successfully, the possibility that we are not in a position to enter the European Union early on, all the positive consequences of this will be used by bringing new investors together to invest their capital and start activities, first of all with production in Serbia. It is also a direct understanding of the legislator's ability to show exports, as a major activity, in Serbia, by returning taxes on large exporters to only 15 days on a proposal from the exporter. The promoter really had a lot of understanding and it is evident that the meaning of the law is incentivized, not that any increase in tax burden is being made, or that the state is creating some new burdens. Finally, and regarding citizens, I believe it will be very interesting for them, the transport of land, and agricultural and urban land, the VAT was released. Transport of second-hand vehicles and vessels will be released for the first time from paid VAT. Citizens will probably be pleased, I already know some reactions, those who have had the chance to hear something about this law positively assess such a legal solution. This was a big problem. Citizens also made a lot of remarks on the payment of sales tax in each transaction of second-hand vehicles and vessels. This law regulates it in a positive way. The VAT has been cancelled. And as far as budgeting is concerned, of course it will increase, as I said at the beginning, and citizens will benefit directly from this. The budget is not out of this country. The budget doesn't go anywhere. The budget is funded -- health care, education, police, all those services that the natives, the citizens of this country of Serbia, are used for the benefit of their families and their children. Filling the budget is not against citizens' interests. On the contrary, the budget will now serve the citizens. That's why G17 plus will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5168	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Stevovic, and let Zoran Micovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which time before this assembly is the law under emergency procedure. It's the value added tax law. I have a few things to say about that. Since 1918, we've known about this law. Namely, for the first time in Germany, there was a debate over this law on value added tax. Since then, in 1954 this tax was introduced in France, and in 1957 in Belgium, etc. About 100 countries in the world, and perhaps more than that, have introduced this tax system. Many countries, almost all OECD countries, also have this system introduced, except for America, and now the question is -- which is why, after so many years, after almost 100 years, we have to discuss this law by emergency procedure. Indeed, this kind of action and putting this proposal on the agenda is not clear to me. I read the explanation, and I disagree with him. It is said that this law should be adopted by an urgent procedure in order to carry out export incentives, to obtain certain funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This second part is clear to me, and the first part cannot be clear to me. When we talk about this, we need to start with the fact that this law, under article 68, is effective on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger, and has been applied since 1 January 2005. So it takes a full six months to organize services, both customs and taxes, so they can perform this function. However, we know that this law was in preparation for a previous government meeting, that the previous government had sufficiently processed it, and even had the help of a German Commission for International Co-operation. So a lot of things have been done and now it's absolutely unclear why it takes this additional period of six months until its application begins. The government in its explanation also says it has postponed this application for the next six months precisely because of the adoption of sublegal acts. Here is a great injustice - the Assembly is asked to adopt this law by emergency procedure, and it takes the government six months to pass certain sublaws. We're wondering, what are the sublegal acts? Of course, these are certain rules and probably specific instructions for implementing this law. I think this is a serious imbalance between the Assembly, as the highest representative body, or political body, and the Government, which should be on the move to solve these technical matters. The draft law on value added tax cannot be seen in isolation from the other laws that are used in tax incentives. In fact, we must note that there is a law on value added tax and a income tax. So, these two laws, together with this one that's in the process today, systemically embrace one tax system and we can talk together about them as one body of law in tax policy. The company's profit tax law reduces the tax rate from 14% to 10% and is said to be the lowest rate in Europe. What was that for? Of course, there would be foreign investment in our economy and our economic system. But as far as we can see, the environment itself is not at a satisfactory level, not politically, not economically, not economically. For these reasons, it also raises the question of justification of this rate from 14% to 10%, but what is there. On the other hand, it is said that the objective of this tax law on the profits of the company is lending. And there's that goal under question. Furthermore, when we talk about this law, which abolished the profit tax of 3.5%, we have to say one important fact, which is that this law has introduced certain tax reliefs, but that its effects are not expected until the next six months. What the effects will be, will remain public to judge and judge. Behind that comes the application of this law, which is on today's agenda. What's behind all this? I believe that everything that the SRS and its MPs have said is right here in principle, which is that the government knows that the Serbian economy is almost on its knees. The government knows that production in our country has almost stopped and that there is no great damage if there is a reduction in these tax rates. First of all, I mean corporate tax. On the other hand, the government knows that traffic is still goods and services something that works and something from which a certain tax procedure can be carried out. That's why it puts this law into practice, at this point, and with the aim of increasing budgets. Otherwise, this law introduces a multiple way of taxing, and its own system leads to an increase in funds that would fit into the budget. The government's practice so far has been that if it reduces tax rates on one side, it replaces it. I'll say that on the case of a profit fund tax. The profit tax of 3.5% has been abolished and is projected to weaken or decrease between 6.5 billion and 7 billion dinars over the next six months. Now the government needs to find a certain expanse of all that and replace those 6.5 to 7.5 billion dinars. In what way was it done? It was done by increasing excise duties. We've all been witnesses here that we've been reviewing gas excises twice. We first adopted excise gas, but that wasn't enough. He was angry with the minister and for the second time was put on the agenda of the debate, and we passed the Excise Act which introduced the excise duty on diesel fuel tax. However, there is another profit involved in the transport of oil derivatives. As the system increases, what has been poured out of the budget by cutting the tax on a 3.5% profit fund is being filled. So we have to talk about the following facts, that we have on one side of the industry, that we have on the other side of the trade and that we have services. So far, industry and a good part of the trade have been taxed. However, trade needs to be further affected and services to be additionally affected, which were at least taxed. This is the goal of this law and now, based on these taxations, more funds are being poured into the budget. When we talk about the objective of this law, which is that the European Union has set us up to adopt this, we can say that the beginning of this is dating back to 1962, from Noimer's commission, and then from 1977 and so on. Sixth Directive. However, there were two other directives from 1992 and 1993. According to these directives, tax rates have been approaching, customs barriers have been lifted, and this third has led to a simplification of the procedure. Therefore, the European Union has taken the view that these tax rates must be approached. We found some environment between the highest and lowest. However, the SRS advocates a different system, which is for three-level intervention. The first level is to lower the rate from 18% to 15%, as far as the European Union least prescribed, the second is that the special tax rate from 8% goes down to 5% and a third to expand the zero tax rate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5170	The word is by MP Zoran Micovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic has the word, and let the Messenger Takac Istvan be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard a lot in today's and yesterday's debate the arguments in favour of introducing a value added tax, but also against the way the DOS government proposes today. What is important is to say, it is certainly that the SRS is in principle not against the introduction of VAT. We proved it on the case back in 1998, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic was the vice president of the federal government. The VAT has been introduced, but unfortunately, for reasons unknown to me, it is not applicable, but it is important that now, some six years later, we use some more new experience, to try to make possible negative effects of introducing value added tax on our economy, and to use all these positive potentials. It is true that the value added tax is more profitable as a budget income, it is true that it is more effective when opposed to tax leave, it is true that it is easier to release certain types of goods on export through value added tax. However, the question is raised, what are the disadvantages of value added tax, and especially if this is taken into account in the way in which the Democrats, or DOS regime, foresees the introduction. One of the problems is that the value added taxpayer must keep numerous tax records. In the first instance, this is certainly a bookkeeping on the total value of the delivery of products and services, on the value of the delivery of products and services to end-users, on the tax charged according to the invoices issued, on the value of products and services exempt from tax, on the total value of the tax received, on the amount of the tax liability for payment and on the amount paid, on the amount of the tax deduction, on the amount of the refund, etc. The question arises whether the deadline of about six months, set by the government for preparations for introducing value added tax, will be sufficient. The experience of Western countries, regardless of the climate that you are very happy to call upon, teaches us that this deadline will not be enough. In fact, much more developed countries and countries of the European Union with much more developed tax systems have given themselves much longer deadlines, even up to two years to make quality preparations necessary for the introduction of this tax. I don't think in this state of Serbian economy, these not even 6 but about 5.5 months will be enough for such a thing, and I think the negative consequences of that haste can be multiple. The introduction of value added tax is preceded by making serious analyses on price tax effects, on tax redistribution, on payment of taxes according to economic and social situation, especially when it comes to food, medicines, electricity, heating, water, public transport services, PTT services, books, newspapers, etc. The inflationary potential of value added tax is high and is particularly high in countries that expect increased tax revenues after the introduction of value added tax. And I'll remind you that he's in Montenegro, for example. This percentage of the increase in tax revenues was 240%. Minister Dinkic announced yesterday that the percentage of the increase will be about 50%. How can it be said, then, that inflation will not occur, but, as the minister said, it is possible even for those products that were not previously taxed, where the rate was zero, and where the rate of 8% is now being introduced, that deflation will occur, or that there will be a fallout. What's this really about? It is that a part of the economic movement that has been in the gray economy has now been transferred to the taxed part and that some products, which have not been taxed for these or those reasons so far, will now be taxed in the next period. It is clear that this can produce only one consequence, and that is certainly an increase in inflation. How much inflation will be seen, but simply the sales tax, which has so far been in use, and the value added tax, whose use has been expected since 2005, are economically similar taxes, are practically equal and is only in the system of collection. If they are the same rates, then the payment of both taxes would have to theoretically produce the same results. It is clear that this is not going to happen, because I remind you that 50% is expected to increase, and that means that this base is expanding, and certainly many products that have not been taxed will now be taxed. The risk of introducing VAT is also the liquidity of companies and the question is that companies that do not have free capital, which are the most likely to pay the first round of value added tax at this point in Serbia. There are two ways. The first way is borrowing from business banks under very unfavourable conditions. And we all know what the current conditions are, what the interest is on the monthly level. So much more than those interest rates that may be forced to pay businesses in the countries of the European Union, which you are calling upon when introducing this law. Even Minister Dinkic said that many solutions are literally copied from the European Union, but what he didn't mean is that we don't have the market as it exists in the European Union, that these interest are not paid here, but that much more interest is paid. The second way to pay for this first round of VAT is to reduce production, i.e. buying smaller quantities of raw materials than planned, in order to pay a value added tax with the remaining funds, which certainly entails more negative consequences, of which the most important and most devastating reduction in production is. The SRS, as I have already said, has tried through amendments, which we will talk more about later, to reduce the negative consequences of VAT and, if you as a majority accept our amendments, we may also support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5172	The word of the Messenger of the people is Takac Istvan; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, we have a new system law in front of us at this session, which is a proposal for a law on value added tax. If we start with each country covering its expenditures and ensuring that certain revenues are collected through taxes, taxes and taxis, then this is another law in a series that requires special attention. The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will support this bill. As Minister Dinkic pointed out yesterday in his address, this new tax is better than the existing tax and tax collection system, replacing it with a new, modern, which is applied in countries with developed economy and social system. These laws have countries in the former Yugoslavia, except for those already mentioned, I mean Bosnia and Herzegovina. The value added tax shall be defined in Article 1. The draft law that this is a general consumption tax that is calculated and paid for the delivery of goods and services, in all stages of production and transport of goods and services. So far, the payment of sales taxes on products and services has been made at the end of the production cycle, when it has been sold to the end-user, or to the end-user of services. That's how he got into the budget as a general consumption. Meanwhile, in the current stage of raw materials, repromation, various products that have been incorporated into the basic product, with statements from the manufacturer, tax payments have been postponed. This proposal for value added tax determines the basis for value added tax and who is exempt from that tax: categories of small taxpayers whose turnover of goods and services does not exceed two million dinars. A special category of debtors, these are farmers, which are recognised as VAT, compensations of 5% on the value of goods and services. It also lists tourist agencies providing tourism services as a special category, as well as the transport of secondhand goods and art paintings. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the concept of a small taxpayer. A small taxpayer within the meaning of Article 33(2). The draft law on value added tax is the one that buys goods, goods and services and pays the tax that is already in place. That same one, firstly, has no right to show VAT in its accounts. Secondly, there is no right to deduct the previous tax. Third, it is not required to keep records of value added tax, as prescribed by the provisions of this proposal for value added tax. In practice, this small taxpayer will have to calculate its price in the future, i.e. at its price, in the case of its products or services, together with the value added tax. Small users of this tax relief are encouraged in another way to organise themselves and to have their advantage in the use of VAT. The method of filing and paying value added tax; Article 48 provides that each calendar month the taxpayer who made the total turnover of 20 million dinars in the previous 12 months, practically the previous year, is to be submitted to and paid. The second category is those who make three months of delivery, or quarterly surrender and pay; it is that taxpayer whose total turnover is less than 20 million dinars. In any case, the newspaper compared to the current way in which the tax application was filed is that only one category existed in the previous accounting system, i.e. one time limit for the submission of written accounts, three months. The value added tax time was different, and this proposal for a value added tax is determined by one time limit, which is 10 days after the tax period expires. The paper is a refund of taxes. The draft law on value added tax provides that each tax pays for its part of the work, services, in the period during which the tax is to be calculated. So there should be no previous subscriptions, or the need to return taxes. However, in life and in practice, and according to the resolution of this law, there are certain cases where this occurs inevitably. If, in the previous period, a taxpayer paid more taxes before the sale, which he installed in his own price, the next taxpayer would have to pay a higher tax. The law stipulates that he has the right to recover taxes within 45 days. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the control of the tax authorities must be effective in the coming period, in order to avoid the negative experience of neighbouring countries, and they have had this practice and in linking companies, they had a duty to return taxes. From now on, many different tax bases in the past, when we had 65%, 55%, two years - 20%, two categories are foreseen here: this is a general rate of 18% and a lower rate of 8%. I believe that a lower rate should be included in the category of housing, because according to the current form of this branch and the population category will be in an unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5174	I'm going to ask you to finish after the time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5175	The time of meeting, preparation, and with taxpayers and competent state authorities is acceptable, as the law provides for application from 1 January 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5176	Thank you, and I'm sorry I didn't warn you at first that it was only seven minutes for the speech. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic, you have six minutes, and then by MP Vladimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this bill of law, we didn't have to rush. We in the SRS believe that no specific solutions should have been proposed in this law. What do we particularly resent about the legislator? The fact that the provisions of the bill reintroduced the taxation of food. You remember, in 2001, Doss's government, unlike this newly-compromised Doss, introduced a 20 per cent food tax, which was the highest tax rate for this type of tax in Europe. The provisions of the bill at a special rate of tax on added value of 8 per cent tax on goods and services or imports of goods, namely bread, milk, flour, sugar, fresh and chilled fruit, vegetables, medicines, prosthetics, dialysis materials, fertilizers, plant protection, seeds for reproduction, textbooks and teaching tools, daily newspapers, monograph and serial publications, heating wood. On the one hand, you make various types of irregularities about imports and exports of electricity, and on the other hand you increase the rate of taxes on heating wood. You remember recently when, on the orders of an energy lobby, there was a power restriction in Belgrade, Capco, and of course behind that is your excuse to make it easier for citizens to accept the electricity collection that follows, along with the exchange that is better and more expensive than it is. In the case of food taxes, most European countries of different levels of economic development, food transport is free of tax payments or taxed at lower tax rates, as a result of equally affecting both the rich and the poor. The regressive functioning of this tax leads to the differentiation of the population towards wealth and income size. Consequently, the application of a single tax rate on the marketing of all products and services leads to adverse social effects, as it contributes to a higher burden on the tax burden on households with lower incomes. It is therefore the products and services most involved in the consumption of the poor part of the population. For your knowledge, and you are always calling for European Union standards, to remind you that under the Sixth Directive on the common system of tax on the transport of the European Union, there is a provision for taxing food at a lower tax rate, with a minimum height of 5 per cent, or at a level of 5 per cent. In Serbia, the participation of food in the average household consumption structure in the past decade is about 47%, while at the same time in Western European countries, for example in the Netherlands, Great Britain, it is about 18%, France 19%, etc. You've set up a parallel with this food tax where there are no big dilemmas whether you're going to charge the budget or not, because you're forced to do something like that. When it comes to these taxes at an 8 per cent rate, special taxes, we want these taxes in Europe, and according to certain presidential candidates' promises that they will live better, and whether this better life is the introduction of visas by Bulgaria and Romania, and whether taxation of food is a better life and improvement for citizens of Serbia or something else. I'll remind you of that affair about the energy lobby and the energy mafia, when about 150,000 tons of mules were effectively exported to fictitiously import and avoid paying sales taxes and that this abuse of people from the EPS was done to harm the state, because the state was not paid sales tax. You know very well that some of the people in the regime in power, specifically the man who was in charge of co-operation with Europe, the man who did a lot of things, according to us in the SRS, bad, but this time we won't mention his name, we'll leave it for another time. Finally, I would remind you, since I have more time, that in certain Western European countries, for example in Belgium, food tax is 6%, in France 5.5 percent, in the Netherlands 6%, Italy 4 percent, Germany 7%, Spain 7%, and in Switzerland only 2 percent. Unlike these European Union countries, we are taxing food with this 8 per cent bill. You're probably saying that in an earlier period, the food tax was 20%, to be abolished later, but to reintroduce it at an 8 per cent rate, which affects the poorest layer of the population, and they will be differentiated and further separated from those people, from those citizens of Serbia who can pay for basic life supplies and products without their budget and their pocket being very damaged. In the end, the dilemma is gone. On the one hand, there's a budget, and on the other hand there's hunger. You've made up your mind, apparently, Mr. Finance Minister. By increasing tax rates, you may, obviously, not to the extent you expect it, fill the budget, but on the other hand, you will certainly increase the hunger of people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5178	The People's MP Vladimir Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Jovan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5179	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say at the very beginning that indeed the MP group DS – Boris Tadic has more rational reasons to support this legislative project. First of all, there is our principled position that we will always support these reform laws and all that leads us to the EU. Another rational reason is the most important one, because this law leads to further curbing the grey economy and introducing order and discipline into our country's economic system, our country's financial system. Then, in line with our position for the common state, this law will bring the tax systems of the two Member States in line and that is another reason why we support such a legal project. However, in addition to all these rational reasons, I have to list one emotional one, which, in simple language, is our child's law. The child of the Democratic Party, as well as a set of laws that appeared here at this meeting. I think it's our child and I trust Mr. Aca Vlahovic that our child, as well as the twenty laws that were here, and we will support them. In order not to think that every law that comes as a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda, that we will nominate it without any critical review, I must say that the MPs of the DS-Boris Tadic group have also submitted several amendments to this law. These amendments are related to misunderstandings on users of free zones, as well as on specific tax rates; however, we will discuss this more when the debate is under the amendments. What we are far more concerned about than the election of such legal projects is their implementation, their implementation. In fact, examples from the recent past tell us that such legal projects are not realised, and all because of a certain political atmosphere, the political climate that is created, as well as the unprincipled attitude of politicians towards vital processes in our society. Examples that say the laws are not implemented because of the destruction of the institutions themselves that need to be implemented by these laws are right behind us. In the first place, it is a privatisation process, which has been abused in the political campaign, and now we have disputes among members of the ruling coalition over the process itself, and in this year, in fact, it is down to zero. We also recently voted in this House on the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests, which is not applied, and even some ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are directly violating the provisions of the law. We sincerely hope that the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will have the strength to create such an atmosphere and to link a good human policy to implement this law, because it is really good, that I do not repeat the reasons that are here who knows how many times repeated. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5180	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5181	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I wasn't in a position yesterday to hear the debate that was being held, but I don't think I'd mind saying something that wasn't said during yesterday's and today's debate. There is no doubt that such a law is needed by Serbia. This is what the Socialists thought while they were in power, because as early as 1999, a federal law on value added tax was passed, but it was always, always, and now, a problem how and when to start applying such a law. Also, there is no doubt that it is one of the most important laws that we will adopt in this congregation, so to speak. system law. But, despite the best intentions, there must be a few, for me, extremely problematic moments or places in the law, which I don't think yesterday's debate has given enough precise answers. First of all, it's a two-foot question. One is 18%, the other is 8%. The key question is, why are those rates not in line or in harmony with Montenegro? The general rate is 17% in Montenegro and 7% on certain goods and services. We have 8% here, or 18% here. We insist on agreeing with the so-called. The sixth directive of the European Union and European legislation, and we are unable to agree with one member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. For me, it's a principled, essential and practical problem. Secondly, Mr. Minister is in the debate yesterday, at least that's how I read in the stenogram, saying that it's possible to deflation, or general price decline. I tried to break into the essence of that reckoning, and I think I managed to see the minister figure it out. It says -- it's possible for goods and services that are taxed by 8% to have a general decline of 2%, but provided there's no margin. I tried it on some case of my own to calculate. If something we deliver with an 8% tax costs 100 dinars, then the ultimate price is 108 dinars. If you on one side have input raw materials and repromaterials that are taxed at an 18% rate, then between 8 and 18 is 10% difference and that is the right of the taxpayer to return so-called. more tax paid. When you add something to 8 dinars, it's 108 dinars, when you subtract 10 from it, to 98 dinars, or less for two, and that would be okay. Here, as a man who understands this story a little bit, the next question is that if it counts in relative amounts, and if it counts in absolute terms, it doesn't have to be. So 8 is going to be 8 per 100 dinars and there's no slow. But since the nature of the Value Added Tax Act is precisely in that it adds value to a product only gives work, then it is to assume that at that price of 100 dinars, for example, repromaterials, raw materials participate with 90% and on our Serbian opportunities working with 10%, and so you get that 100%. But in that 90%, 18% doesn't mean 18 dinars. It is the essence of my reckoning that it may sometimes occur that in the calculation we have these two extra dinars, but that in life it will not actually be present, on the one hand; and on the other hand, because I think a very small number of those who deliver such goods will be motivated to give up these two dinars or 2% of the margin, or their profits. About that so-called. The value added tax paradox, it is said, is not good to insist on certain products and certain services being so-called. Zero rate, but it's better to have 8% than zero. And that would be true, provided that you're just discussing that there's a zero rate without the right to refund taxes. That reckoning is correct. If you charged 8 and paid 18, then you have the right to vomit 10 dinars, or something, and that would be fine. But if you've paid at zero rate, so nothing, you have no right to vomit, but you've already accounted for and paid for the person who invoiced it to you 18, and you have no right to vomit. That's also the third fundamental difference between us and the Montenegrins, because they also have that category - zero rate with the right to vomit. That's what I'm talking about right now. So if we're going to talk about food, bread, meat, life supplies, then we have to treat that category with a zero rate, with the right to vomit of the previously paid tax. That's the point. There has been a lot of talk about how farmers will be rewarded in some way, so those who have over a million dinar traffic will be entitled to a tax refund of 5%. Why is there even a difference between producers who have up to a million and producers who have over a million, and that their main activity is agriculture, or agriculture. Or who will and how will ensure that the price of electricity after the introduction of value added tax is not increased by a minimum of 18%? How can a citizen, who will pay so much for taxes, pay a refund? It's impossible. How will we, when we are calculating, in production in particular set out the price of electricity in which the value added tax participates with 18%? For me, the fundamental question is -- why here in the proposal was not electric energy treated for those goods and services that are taxed at this lower rate of 8%, especially what follows us or has already seen an increase in electricity price of at least 10%. As far as I know, no price of electricity is taxed with that highest traffic tax rate, as is the case with us. It is especially important to understand some of the deadlines. As a taxpayer, legal persons pay a value added tax in this way within 15 days, as I understand it, because these are the deadlines applied under the Tax Administration Act, and they are entitled to return within 45 days, as provided for here. Now the essential question is how are we going to take this first step, which is always the hardest, as it is known, because we have a 30-day gap that burdens the economy and makes it the 30-day minimum, to finance the state. How do you bridge that first step? I've been thinking about it and, right to tell you, there's no other solution than to meet the deadlines for paying the tax liability based on VAT and the same deadlines to give back. Only then can we theoretically come to the so-called. liquidity balance. Everything else is a crossroads. Why theoretically? Because even in such conditions, you have a problem with charges, when and who will pay you. A particular problem will be for producers who have been and will be forced to lend their products to credit: 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, with them having to charge all taxes and to settle all obligations to the state. Only when the citizens are charged will they be able to catch some balance in liquidity, but they will constantly have a gap. Since there are many provisions in the law that give you the right to arrange these relations, it is, for example, possible in a practical life, when you buy goods on credit and when the seller gives you an account, that this account is immediately entitled to register, including the right to return a certain tax, if it is present. Unfortunately, in the case of furniture producers, techniques, equipment, there is no difference in the rate to be calculated in relation to the rate to be calculated in the supply of raw materials, repromation and other services and products used in the production. Basically, then there's no right to vomit. You have this first blow that you have to endure in order to finance production and to be orderly and financially disciplined against the state. I don't know if you, the other fellow MPs in the National Assembly, got a letter from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I hope so, but I'll read it for the public. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is an association involving businessmen who see every law here in the assembly procedure and make certain remarks. It says: "Respected, in the context of reforming the tax system and harmonising our rules with European Union regulations, the economy is committed to creating such a system and ambience that will stimulate economic growth and business in the regulatory frameworks, while at the same time being destimulative for operating outside or at the border of regular flows of injury, i.e. the gray market. This is why the economy supports the adoption of a value added tax tax, as one of the key laws in the process of rounding up tax system reform. In order to create anoptimal text of the value added tax law, the economy considers that the adoption of the law must take into account the real situation in which the economy is located: technical and technological obsolescence of production capacities, lack of funds to invest in development, highly expressed indifference and the like. In this respect, the economy has the following objections to the text of the Bill on Value Added Taxes, which are not contrary to the Sixth Directive of the European Union: First, a special lower rate of value added tax should be prescribed for work-related equipment; agricultural machinery, appliances and parts for land processing; computer equipment and software; first transfer of the rights to be made available to newly built construction facilities; equipment and services in the field of cinematography; natural gas supplied to individual consumers through a gas distribution network; note that the products listed above are, under the now applicable Transport Tax Code, exempt from this tax. Secondly, international transport services of goods and passengers should be released from VAT, with the right to deduct the previously paid tax, not as proposed here. Third, the right to deduct the previous tax should also be prescribed for the production of means of transport: passenger cars, buses, motorcycles, water facilities and aircraft, as well as spare parts for the same. Fourthly, to allow taxpayers the right to provide the previous tax, in the case of goods imports to the Republic of Serbia, with a menu. The fifth, in order to avoid distortions of company liquidity, should be shortened from 45 to 30 days for the refund of the difference previously paid tax. With respect, President Milos Radivojčević." This is the opinion of the businessmen, which I fully agree with, because it is compatible with the thinking of the businessmen who have to implement this law, to ensure that the budget is properly charged, but not to suppress their own economic life. It's especially important to understand. It is particularly important, given the general policy, that we have provided for adequate resources in the budget to encourage the development of construction, housing, housing, housing insurance, etc. It is especially important to overcome this first step in construction. You now have the fact that on newly built apartments and construction buildings you will have to charge taxes at 18%. This will inevitably, at least in the beginning, lead to exactly that much of the relative collection of apartments, or construction facilities. Then we'll have a series of side effects that are important. We won't be able to build 10,000 apartments over the year, probably these 3,500 apartments, as much as they were done in the state of Serbia in 2003. Not to mention roads, infrastructures, business facilities, etc., which we have in mind that the transfer of absolute rights, including real estate, such as apartments and construction facilities, is particularly taxed by another 5%; 18 and 5 is 23, and when you apply it to some sale price, you actually have a real collection of 23% apartments. When you add to that the price of the loan, the cost of providing credit through this agency, even if it works, then you have the price of a square meter apartment that the average citizen in this country can't finance with a loan. Furthermore, how are we going to get technologically advanced or advanced equipment if we have such rates of tax on equipment, both domestic and imported. I think it's going to make it a lot harder for every business subject to work, even if it comes back through all accounts later. But I don't see that in many situations, there will be any chance of any of that tax coming back. That's why I don't think it was correct to the end of the motion that this law in the congregation procedure gave us by so-called. an emergency procedure. And then you took off that emergency sign, and Saturday, before the start of this session, so many of us were in no position to submit the amendments. And many of us haven't been able to talk to the businessmen and have ideas, like these suggestions from the Chamber of Commerce, install them into amendments, which I think make sense and that they might be accepted by the promoters. This is how we're brought into a rather invisible, delicate situation when we talk about system law, that we're unable to change the quality of this law. I don't think it was, by the promoter, fair or whatever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5182	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search - whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, the word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5183	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been paying attention to the debate in the law principle and I can say that we've heard some good remarks, but there have been some incorrect claims. Many of the data was out, we see that the MPs were getting ready, but sometimes they were taking out half-accessible data, so I'd like to point out what's really true about what's been said and what's not, and answer the questions you've been asking. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, I'd like to answer some of the questions. I'll take my turn. First, let me say which false claims were made. First, the European Union directive says that value added tax can be at least 15%. So the rate can't be less than 15%. It could be higher, which doesn't mean, and someone interpreted it, that it had to be 15% and then there was criticism -- why the law didn't comply with this directive. No, the European Union directive says - the value added tax rate must be at least 15%, which means 15 or more. In practice, Germany alone has 16%, of those countries. On the other hand, with an 18% rate, if this law is passed, Serbia will be in line with countries with the lowest value added tax rate, as even 80% of countries in the world have a higher rate than 18%. So this rate is extremely low, 2% lower than the current rate of sales tax, and that's the main reason why there's room for a general drop in price levels. Because we're replacing the 20% rate at a general rate of 18%. Here, and the previous speaker gave one false fact. Montenegro doesn't have two feet. Montenegro has a single rate of 17%. There is no reduced rate, as the speaker said, of 7%, so we are asked why we did not harmonize this fully with Montenegro. So Montenegro has a single rate of 17% and it is not true that Montenegro has a zero rate on basic life supplies, with the right to deduct. The Sixth Directive prohibits, except in certain cases, a zero rate, with the right to deduct the previously paid tax on food products and other products. You may have a zero rate, but without the right to deduct and in that case you are rewarded or punished. That's why Montenegro will change the zero rate of bread, because they don't have the right to deduct. In other words, all that is paid, the tax on raw materials, cannot be counted for tax rejection when paying taxes on finished products. There is also a great deal of misunderstanding regarding tax compensation for value added to agricultural producers. Namely, this provision exists in all the laws and fees that we have prescribed falls under one of the greatest. In other countries, these fees are lower. The case works, 4% in Slovenia. We have a 5% fee, which means farmers have the possibility that when they sell goods to someone who is a taxpayer of extra value, they get 5% of the fees from him. In other words, the 5% money they sold. Why would anyone buy this stuff that way? For the reason that the 5%, tomorrow when they sell the agricultural product, will refuse their tax liability. As you know, we're on our way to register agricultural producers. More and more agricultural traffic will go through the bill. About 30,000 households are registered in just a month and a half, and in the next period, from the next and the next years, peasants who sell through their goods' accounts will actually get the possibility that 5% of getting compensation from the one who buys. And whoever buys the goods on black or without an account won't be able to deduct it from his final value tax, so this stimulation is 5% compensation, just plus for farmers. She's not mandatory. Those who don't want to use it don't have to. But it's a possibility for those who want to sell goods through the bill so they can make use of that fee. There was also a big debate on whether some products could be taxed at a reduced rate, so specifically under this law, at an 8% rate. A letter from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce also arrived. With great regret, I can say that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce did not read the Sixth Directive well. Because some of the products are properly classified where the Sixth Directive gives the possibility to lower the rate, but some are not. For example, under the Sixth Directive, it is not possible to calculate lower rates for equipment for performance. It is not possible to calculate lower rates for agricultural machinery, appliances and parts for land processing, and for computers, computer equipment and software. It is possible, however, and there were right those MPs who pointed out this, for the first transfer of rights to the newly built facilities, possible anger about equipment and services in the area of cinematography and for the natural gas used for households. So it's possible for you, of these six, as much as the Chamber has made remarks, it's possible for you. It's true there's a possibility. Why? Because, as you know, the budget has two sides, it has an income and expenditure side. We are now removing the sales tax from January 1st. Today, in the first six months, sales tax accounts for 37% of total tax revenues. It's the biggest tax form. We replace it with value added tax at a rate that is 2% lower than the sales tax. The value added tax will be the basic income of our country, the basic income of public finances. We can, and some MPs have given amendments to lower the rate, and it is theoretically possible to lower some rates. It's possible to cancel all taxes, but where are we going to finance the expenses? For some products, we have a problem, especially with the first transfer of real estate. That would mean that those who produce apartments would have a huge vomit. That vomit budget can't hold. That means we have a budget problem. It is theoretically possible, and it is possible by the Sixth Directive, to include the first traffic of real estate at a reduced rate of 8%, but given that all material, blocks and others are taxed by 18%, then that would mean that there would be enormous vomiting, especially as it comes to significant works and significant values. So here we have two things. On the one hand, I agree that it is necessary to encourage the development of the economy, but it is not a value-added tax instrument that neither country does so through value-added tax, but it is done through profit tax, which we will talk about in the follow-up to this session, and it seems to be some other tax regulations that stimulate. This is basic tax revenue, and if we want to have an orderly payment of pensions, social benefits, public and other services, then we still have to keep an eye on income. To respond to the specific dilemmas of some parliamentary groups. It was first discussed by the SPS group and the largest dilemma that was raised was whether it was possible to apply the tax, i.e. to implement the value added tax over the next six months. I want to say that it's possible to do this, because as you know, the first draft of the law was done a year ago. The Tax Administration has already created an earlier programme for the implementation of this law and we have formed all working groups that have already created appropriate software. In six months, we will be fully prepared first to explain the economy of the tax account and, of course, to carry it out effectively as of 1 January. Just to remind you, the transfer of payment traffic to banks has been done literally in six months. In the last six months, all preparations have been intensified and, as you know, unlike other countries, former Yugoslav republics, we have been very successfully transferred to banks. Slovenians implemented the law within six months after the law was passed, and Macedonians implemented it within three months. We are neither more incompetent than the Slovenians, let alone the Macedonians. Macedonians had problems, but Slovenians didn't. Slovenians simply implemented the law so that their prices dropped 4 to 5% compared to the inflation they had in the previous years. In Macedonia, prices have increased 10% because they have not prepared the law properly, so the concern is real and I think the parliamentary group has good intentions when it says whether it is possible to implement it in six months. It would be better if we had a longer period, but we are literally the last country, except Bosnia, which introduces this law in Europe, and there is really no time to wait anymore. I think that some long discussions on the very essence of the law are unnecessary, given that indeed all the countries in the world have this law. That it's something we made up, of course, that we should look deeper. There is always fear from the new and some people in the economy fear it, others, of course, wish to introduce this law, because it creates the exact same conditions for all and those who work in legal flows will get this law. Those who are in the gray economy will lose and therefore there are many objections coming from these directions. As for lower rates, I've already said we can't have a lower rate of 18%, because we're replacing the current rate of 20% with 18%. We have to take care of our tax revenues, and the largest number of countries has a rate of between 20% and 25%. I've already given an explanation for the zero rate. A theoretically only zero rate is possible for some basic foods, and even for books, but without the right to deduct the previous tax. I claim it's a worse situation for these producers than the 8% rate. Also, I would like to specifically respond to the MPs, it was a member of the DSS and the SP, who asked how this tax would reflect on construction, or whether the property tax would be applied simultaneously with value added tax and whether there would be double taxation. As regards construction, i.e. the sale of apartments, value added tax will apply only to the first transfer of the right of disposal, i.e. to newly built apartments, only when the transfer is carried out by the taxpayer of value added tax. In that case we will amend the property tax law and will not be paid tax on the transfer of absolute rights of 5%, so it will be only this value added tax. We have to keep in mind the next thing, and it's a completely different system than the previous one, all the material for building apartments will be taxed at 18% and a record of the previously paid tax will be made, and then only the tax difference will be paid. In one large number of cases, there will be no difference, so if you look you can calculate different products. If you replace the sales tax of 20% with a value added tax of 18% you have room to lower prices because the absolute tax amount is lower. The apartment depends on the efficiency of the manufacturer, depending on whether they will try, because those who are more efficient will not have problems. Those who usually have problems, have huge costs and slowly build apartments, owe construction workers, of course they'll try to put all that into the price, but there won't be double taxation. Secondly, for the transfer of already built apartments there is no value added tax. Therefore, this applies only to the first transfer of newly built apartments and only when it is carried out by the taxpayer of value added tax. In fact, the value added tax will only burden investors' margin in these cases, and the other transport of objects will be exempt from value added tax, without the right to deduct the previous tax. As you know, property traffic not newly built, which is not the first transfer, has been exempt from value added tax, but without the right to deduct the previous tax. It's contained in our law. The Democratic Party asked a question, which surprised me a little, why two tax rates and why not a general rate, or didn't understand. It was set up by a representative of the parliamentary group and said they were concerned about the impact it will have on the general level of prices. It has also been pointed out that this is the same law they previously proposed a year ago. All value added tax laws are similar because there is this sixth directive, which in fact gives guidance on how the law is made. However, there are six important differences between the new bill and the one proposed a year ago by the previous government. First, as you know, the previous government predicted a 20% rate. So they wanted to keep the same rate as the sales tax rate, and they proposed something lower, a reduced rate of 5%. We suggest a lower general rate of 18% and something higher than 8%. However, given that the largest part of the product is taxed at a general rate, then this law gives a redundancy of the economy, because this reduction of 2% in the overall rate gives the possibility of a far greater drop in price, and we have calculated that we can achieve, by better payment, by legalising the grey economy, higher revenues in total volume. Also, the difference between the laws is that the previous law, the one from a year ago, did not give way to overweight exporters for return of value added tax within 15 days. We have just been talking to the representatives of the economy, and we have come to the conclusion that the bulky exporters can have shorter repayments in order to have a minor liquidity impact, given that it is large amounts of funds. Then, this law, unlike the previous one, contains very favourable conditions for investing in free zones, because it applies a zero rate with the right to deduct. Furthermore, a zero rate with the right to deduction was introduced for diplomatic and consular representations, which was not contained in the previous law. Then, accommodation in hotels, homes, camps was transferred to a reduced rate of 8% and was previously scheduled to be at a rate of 20%. Finally, this law gives a more favourable treatment of the stocks of excise products in which the tax on sales is charged. We have tried to reduce the liquidity problem as much as possible in transitional provisions when the law is implemented. We don't deny it. We say -- there will be a number of firms with liquidity security problems, however, which is why the law is being adopted now, and applied in six months, so that everyone can prepare well. The first payment of value added tax will be on February 10th. So on February 10th, it will be the first accounting period when the value added tax is charged. As for the impact on prices, I absolutely stay on the point that at a reduced rate, instead of 20% we go 18%, we're not going to have any impact on prices. Some products may have some goods collected, but will have a far greater impact on price decline, so the total inflation next year will be lower than this year's. As for the questions raised by the SPO - NS parliamentary club, four were basic dilemmas. The first question is what will it bring to agriculture, given that agricultural machinery, livestock food, veterinary medicines, will be taxed at an 18% rate, not at a reduced rate. Again, I say, the mechanism in no law really is treated at a reduced rate, because then there could be a legitimate question why only machinery, why not other equipment, why not cars, why not other means of transport, and objectively, if this system could endure for budgetary reasons, every finance minister would gladly lower rates, because no one is in the interest of taxing citizens. The problem is that you have to collect revenue to pay for those who are not on the market, those who do not work, pensioners and others, those who are users of public expenditure. That's why the machinery can't be released. Agriculture is being helped in another way, and as we have done this year, we will also do this: we will increase the agrarian budget next year, so the subsidies will continue to be agricultural loans. Now in about 20 days, about 8,000 short-term loans are granted, will be now and long-term. In another way, we're going to help, it's a positive 3% interest. So, in this sense, you cannot help through this law specifically to some groups, but through other mechanisms you need help. Also, I have to say, as far as domestic gas is concerned, I'd be willing to accept that isolated amendment if it were to be taken into consideration. However, he was given in the group, Mr. Stevanovic gave a group of amendments. I ask that this amendment be withdrawn for budgetary reasons, because some things are not in line with the Sixth Directive, some of them are. So, the gas for the household can be at a low rate, and I told the Committee on Economy that I was ready to accept it, but there is no such amendment given as a separate one. As for the company that imports, the bond as a guarantee of payments, I see that the Chamber points out, I see that Mr. Stevanović pointed out, there is one single example in Europe, and it is Ukraine. It's used there and we've had two options about accepting that proposal. I have spoken to the Chamber's representatives before, however, it seemed to us that there may be various abuses, because you know what happened to the bonds at the Fikret Abdic era in the former Yugoslavia. I've decided that we can help large exporters who have large imports by cutting their sick time, so it's now scheduled for 15 days. That's mostly what I wanted to say about this law. I am pleased that the basic direction of the law has hardly been slowed by any parliamentary group. Of course, there are many strangers, because it is a brand-new tax form, the most complex tax form, but I hope that the Assembly will adopt this law and that from 1 January next year we will be in the tax system as well as all developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5184	I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the MPs not to receive. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5185	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can't help but think of what Mr. Minister said now in his closing statement in principle. He said farmers get 5% value added tax, and it's not true, because they just need to forward it to the state, Mr. Minister, and you know it well, but you won't say about this speaker. When it comes to housing, and when it comes to value added tax, you are reportedly unable to free them, because the expenditure would be large, and that is not true to you, Mr. Minister, because the legal entities involved in housing construction and issue a tax declaration that it serves for the purpose of reproduction, or further selling, have been exempt from sales taxes. In this case, you get a new kind of taxation, a new budget income you haven't had so far, and it wouldn't be any problem to give it up. Such a minister who even wants certain rights for himself in law, as in Article 4(4), said: "The turnover of goods with compensation equals: 3) the expenditure declared (kalo, rast, failure and fracture) above the amount established by the act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia." There is the wish of the promoter, or minister, Mr Dinkic, to say that this job is not done by him, but by the government. However, in the last position of this member of the bill, it is said: "The Minister in charge of finance affairs is closer to regulating what is considered to be newly built construction facilities under item 3 of point 7 of this article, as well as what is considered to be taking goods that are part of the taxpayer's business assets, as well as any other turnover without compensation from Article 4 of this Article. "In its amendment, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic asked that certain provisions of this article be deleted, i.e. change and that this matter be regulated by law. So, that Mr. Minister can't determine or propose to the government, and that's the government to work on his behalf, what's going to be the damage, the break-up and the break-up. We need to be aware of the fact that we cannot use the tables that exist in the countries of the European Union, which have a much more stable economy, much more high-quality technology and much less development, failure and breakdown. How does a minister or a member of the government know what these costs are in one production for each branch. So, what's the difference, the failure and the failure of the service business, such as transport, what's in the wholesale sale, what's in the retail. What it means is whether it applies to all possible products intended for wide consumption, from chemistry which has a period of one year, without a period of time, infinitely, to food that has a duration of up to five days, and up to 60 days at most. How the minister will do it with an individual act, giving himself the right to regulate such matter. Therefore, the position of the SRS is to pass the law, to put it before the MPs, and to be those who will decide, because they correspond to the citizens who chose them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5186	The People's Messenger Goran Jocic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is pushing for the rule of law, not regulations and acts. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted this amendment to Article 4(4) of point 3, which states that "the estimated expenditure (kalo, break-up and break-up)" is determined by an act adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Another reason is to prevent various abuses that could occur when some businessmen who are in the process of production, where some of these handicrafts happen, can be excavated through their own people, through a certain minister, that the government can pass an act where more destruction, corruption and break could be recognised. Therefore, I would turn to the congregation’s majority to accept this amendment in order to prevent the hay from happening in any further process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5188	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5189	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to refer to Mr Arsic's discussion, which said that the tax on which farmers now have the right to 5 per cent is just something they will pass on to the state. This suggests that he did not understand the basic essence of this value added tax, because it is a tax that is rejected from what he had already paid in the previous production process for certain re-romantics, raw materials at a rate of 8 or 18 per cent. This means that it is compensation or compensation to the farmer for what he has invested. He has no obligation to transfer that tax to the state. He's already paid 8 or 18 percent. Whether it will come to life and whether it will get that 5 percent higher at the price at which someone who is organized and who is in the VAT system buys products from it, that's another question. And it certainly does not stand for this claim that he will have to transfer 5% to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5190	Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5191	My previous speaker didn't seem to get a good look at what I was about to say. This is that the tax base that an individual agricultural producer has and on which a 5 per cent tax is charged is in the largest part, for small individual agricultural households or some other who may have moved to a certain different type of production, cannot possibly mean tax relief, because the only income that a farmer can have is income from his work. There, in any case, the 3 per cent tax difference will not compensate for the part that it has some vomiting, but it is a taxpayer who will pass on his tax liability to the state. Is only the repro-material used during production the only raw material used by the agricultural producer, whether he himself will charge on his own wheat 5 per cent of the value added tax, which will feed on cattle, or on corn, or on any other culture that he himself makes to eat, from primary agricultural production to secondary. That is the problem that seems to me to be seen only by someone on the other side of a higher form of agricultural production, where you buy everything to make a certain agricultural product. However, our individual agricultural producers have to deal with both primary agricultural production and secondary production, and most often it's simple livestock production, where it can't show everything through VAT, but it creates a tax liability of 5% to which it certainly has to pay part of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5192	Anybody else answer for a word? Nemanja Sarovic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the amendment submitted to Article 4 by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and requested that the word "actoma" be replaced by the word "legislative" be replaced by the word "legal" in order to prevent possible abuses that certainly occurred during the previous period, and we are all witnesses of that. Namely, what it's about. He says: "With goods traffic with compensation equalises: 3) shown income (kalo, rasur, failure and fracture) above the amount established by the act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "The SRS believes that this matter should regulate the law, not the sublegal act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is possible to abuse certain businessmen, who have a monopoly in certain areas of production, and it was the case that some high-ranking government officials and even vice-presidents, ministers, I say, lived with some of these businessmen, were flying on their yachts, while their products were free of sales taxes. For example, we had a situation in the production of eggs and famous Surcinian businessman Dragoljub Markovic. A large expansion, of course, has experienced egg production. Mr. Markovic bought most of the farms and established a monopoly in egg production in Serbia. The question arises as to what happens if the government, which it will be close to, because it was close to the previous Doss governments, determines that instead of, for example, 2 percent of the break, which is the standard in European countries, after a month or two days, it will determine that the percentage will be 7% in the next period. In that case, we're going to have a situation where this 5% difference is actually going to be a tax ejaculation. Unauthorized tax ejaculation, i.e. avoiding tax payments. For this reason, I suggest that you adopt the SRS amendment and prevent possible abuses, not to burden our citizens with any future affairs, but simply to advance any possible abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5194	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5195	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the minister has the habit of simply wanting to give himself too much authority, and now in Article 5(4), the minister says: "The transport of services with compensation equals: 1) the use of goods that are part of the taxpayer's business assets for the personal needs of founders, employees or other persons. "As the last position of Article 5 states: "The Minister is closer to edits what is considered to be the use of goods which are part of the corporate property of the taxpayer for the personal needs of the founders, employees or other persons and by providing services which the taxpayer has performed without compensation for the personal needs of the founder, employees or other persons of the Law. "The attitude of the SRS and the applicant for the amendment, Zoran Krasic, is that this matter must be regulated by law. His predecessor at the ministerial post Bozidar Djelic wanted to pay taxes even if someone went to help someone to bathe in the field or to clean the snow, or to help in the household. Even that's what he wanted to pay his sales tax. Now the minister here wants power for himself to determine that the goods owned by the taxpayer, most often by the legal person, determines what their personal use will be, and what their business use will be. I guess here the minister most wants to determine when it comes to cars owned by a private company, so he will determine whether the owner of the company travels officially and does not have to pay a value added tax, or travels privately, so it is a service that his own company does towards him, so he will have to pay the value added tax. This is the essence of this Article 5. We believe that the possible abuses on this issue are also by the taxpayers, but also by the minister, but therefore, as I said about the previous amendment, it is best to come out with a full bill where this matter will be regulated and that the MPs, not the executive authorities, decide on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5196	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Nemanja Sarović'
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another member of the law that the minister, at this point it is Mr Mladjan Dinkic, gives discretionary authority to decide what will be considered to be the use of certain goods, and what will be considered to be personal goods, etc. Minister Mladjan Dinkic has so far had the practice of often usurping powers that did not belong to him. It was similar with the People's Bank, so that his actions would eventually be completed by breaking into the National Bank with automatic rifles. It seems, however, that the minister has learned something from all of this, instead of putting a sock on his head and entering the bank, he decided to first pass a proper law that would give him the authority to do something like that. The point of the amendment submitted by Mr Zoran Krasic is that this abuse, that is, the possibility of abuse, is pre-warned and that it does not occur. He said just now that Mr Dinkic is at risk of the company's liquidity in paying that first value added tax round, that he agrees that there is a certain danger, but that this is why this value added tax has been delayed until 1 January 2005, I guess that companies in Serbia, which do not have capital, and we all know that such enterprises today have had the most time to raise those funds in the next five and a half months and do what they could not do so far. The question arises -- what does the minister think, what these companies are, what business entities in Serbia have done in the past years, in which the next five and a half months will differ from the previous four years of Doss regime's rule. What is it that companies, which have failed to provide enough capital for the past four years, will help them do so in just the next five and a half months? The funds are not small, 18% is not small. I've already explained that there are two ways to resolve this situation. One is borrowing from business banks, but I still have to repeat that what we call business banks does not operate on the business principles by which these same banks operate in other countries, that capital is much more expensive for us. Despite all the great donations and investments that have arrived in our country, the economy is in an extremely bad state. Another way is to reduce production, i.e. purchase of smaller quantities of raw materials than anticipated, in order to cover value added tax with this price difference. I fear that the behaviour model of most businesses in Serbia will necessarily have to be this second and that unless some of the amendments of the SRS are accepted, this law will have more negative than positive effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5198	Thank you to MP Nemanja Sarovic. The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5199	Ladies and gentlemen, just for a little while, since I already discussed something of this yesterday in our debate and said it. It is amazing that in one legal proposal of 60 members, as many as 16 members, it gives the minister the discretion to regulate some of these provisions that are assured of these members. It's just amazing, every fourth member leaves the Minister with the right, the obligation, or the possibility that he can arrange certain matter with sublegal acts closer to him. This leaves the possibility for various malfeasances, for abuse, and I believe that many of these things left to the minister can be regulated by law. Many things could have been defined by law, that this discretionary right would not be left to the minister, that eventually it would also cause suspicion that there would be certain abuses. Therefore, I believe that these amendments should be well considered and some of them accepted. However, every fourth member is too much and is left to the minister on his decision-making and discretionary right for the closer regulation of these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5200	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5201	Minister Dinkic, it is unacceptable for you to ignore in your address the largest parliamentary group sitting in this House. We know that you are not pleased that 82 Serbian radicals are sitting here, with the greatest trend of growth, but as a civil servant, you do not have the right to address, in the way you spoke in the final word just now, to talk about the amendments of the parliamentary group of this party, that party, you individually listed everything, and you did not mention the SRS parliamentary group. We don't mind, but I want to talk for the public... And maybe it's because of you, seeing as you're mostly asleep, so you'll notice. He's speaking to the messenger from the O.R. ) We submitted to this law of the 16 amendments, and all the time we talked about the law in principle, we said that we had no objection to this law being passed and stressed that it was necessary to accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group. Of course, it is obvious that you are second-guessing the problems of Serbian citizens. We've known that before, but something else here is also problematic. On these days as we spoke, we had already crossed three points of the agenda, each time we came to this part of the debate in particular we had the government's opinion. We have no government opinion today. I don't know how to talk about this amendment. I don't know if the government has accepted it or not. If not, I don't know what explanation. That's necessary so I can plow with the government. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and I have suggested that the position of the 3rd member be deleted, and that position reads as follows: "The Minister is closer to editing what is considered to be the usual quantities of business samples and a gift of less value of item 1(3) and 4) of this article. "We Serbian radicals have principled against giving too much authority to a man in the image of a minister, and in particular we are opposed to being in the power of Minister Dinkic. I've already noticed in the earlier address of Minister Dinkic that he says - I've decided. So he's already applying this law, and apparently he's not even speaking for the government, he's speaking for himself. It was still supposed to wait for this bill to be passed, so it would be published in the Official Messenger, so that it would come into force. You, gentlemen of the government and gentlemen of the ruling majority, show obvious intent, not only through this law, but through the laws we discussed here, that you free the government of all responsibility and obligations. On the one hand, you introduce minors in every law to some agencies, directors. On the other hand, you're extending the power of the minister. It really raises the question of what the Government, as a whole, is doing, if there is a government as a whole, since we know how the resolutions are deployed – where the minister is, there are also assistants and deputies from the same party from which the minister is from. It is clear to us to Serbian radicals that there is no serious control of the government, so it happens, for example, that individual ministers or vice-president of the government within some agencies hires activists of their party, who have studied for more than 10 years, and then calls them experts, and these experts finance from the budget. These experts, among other things, are financed from this value added tax law, and then the minister here explains how the budget must be filled to finance those who, he said, do not earn. It is not clear to me that there is a category in Serbia that does not earn wages. We MPs finance ourselves from the budget and I am truly convinced that we, at least Serbian radicals, make a fair profit. I don't see what categories these are. Did the minister think the salary wasn't made by doctors, teachers, state administration, judges, because they're all funded from the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5202	Thank you to the People's Messenger, Verica Radetti. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5203	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament, in Article 6 of the amendment, on behalf of the SRS, the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta, asked that Article 3 of this article be deleted, and most of all as regards point 3) of point 1 of this proposal, which reads: "By transport of goods and services within the meaning of this law, it is not considered to be: 3) free of charge giving business samples in the usual quantities for this purpose to customers or future customers". The amendment requires that it be deleted: "The Minister is closer to edits what is considered to be the usual amount of business samples and a gift of less value from item 1. 3) and 4) of this article. "There is now a question of what kind of criteria Mr. Minister will have when deciding what will be a gift, what is its value, what will be a representation of a particular business arrangement or a particular product. Will it work on the number of customers, will it do it on the basis of new customers, will it work on the traffic that a particular company has or in some other way only known to it? Are there any possible abuses? Yes, because then the minister can be someone's mother, some stepmom, some branch of action in which their friends, mentors and sponsors work, can get great sublegal powers, spend some goods, even sell it, which leads to the cost of the team, in terms of costs, giving new or old customers adverts of a particular product, etc. and those who are not his favorites, so it limits it to some very small, modest quantities and in a certain way puts economic operators in a different position. We believe, as well as all of these previous amendments that are similar to this, that it is necessary to come up with a full law before the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, that they decide what gifts are of less value, what is the advertising of a particular product, what is a representation for a particular product. The assembly also decided to act by the government and all other lower authorities of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5204	Thank you to MP Veroljub Arsic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? National MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5205	Dear President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I think that the previous speaker has just given a piece and an explanation why the amendment should not be accepted or why the original bill should be accepted. The very concept of the sample is relative in production, first of all in industry, because the main focus here is industrial production, which gives certain reasons for testing, analysis, trial use, etc. By making it very clear in the law, we would get, I mean, at least 500 new sides, what in certain areas is meant by the pattern. Furthermore, people who are potential customers or future users, who want a certain type of test use of that sample, define in various ways the necessary quantity, depending on what they need it for. Here's a simple example: in the auto-gum industry, you can satisfy the need with five tires and say it's a sample, while in the chemical products industry, i.e. paints and bows, you often have a test sample of 10,000 liters. Is it now necessary to define in the law how many sides and how many ways and who should all be involved in defining what it is and whether or not MPs really need to deal with it? This matter is the usual matter of sublegal acts. I think that's how it should be defined in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5206	Thank you to MP Goran Jaksic. The replica was reported by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5207	Perhaps this would make sense that only production is the only branch of the economy where a particular product will reach the consumer. In addition to production, there are also service activities and, ultimately, trade. How's that gonna work now? Will it give to the final consumer or will it give to a wholesaler who will pass it on to retailers, which will give it to customers? In what part of the sublaw will it be regulated? It is best to regulate it by law and to write well in the law – for manufacturing activities 1%, 2% or 3%, for service activities 1%, 2% or 3% or retail 1%, or for retailing 1%, 2% or 3%. Then there's no doubt about whether it's five tires, if it's 10,000 liters. However, you have to admit that the amount of 10,000 liters is large, I don't know who says it's normal. It's not normal. These are often the monthly production of a production plant, in order to free the VAT. In any case, even the previous minister, who suffered criticism over such things in the Serbian Parliament, put that into percentages in subsequent changes and additions to product sales. I don't think it's a question of doing something in this law. However, the minister seems to be making some kind of story of his own, some kind of game of his own. We'll see why.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5208	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group and as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on value added tax. In Article 8(2), the word "agriculture" should be deleted. I would quote: "The activity referred to in Article 1 is the permanent activity of the manufacturer, trader or service provider in order to achieve revenue, including the activities of exploitation of natural resources, agriculture, forestry and self-interest." In order to make it more clear to you why the term "agriculture" should be deleted, Article 34(3) says: "If farmers carry out the goods and services of Article 2(2) of this Article, the debtor is obliged to make up a VAT fee of 5% on the value of the goods and services received, which is issued by the account document (hereinafter referred to as "recognitions"). "To that effect, Article 5 of the same Article states: "A farmer can be defined at the beginning of the calendar year for the obligation to pay VAT by submitting the registration records prescribed by this law to the competent tax authority no later than 15 January of the current year, provided that in the previous 12 months he has achieved the total turnover of agricultural and forest products, i.e. agricultural services of more than one million dinars. "Well, gentlemen, I thought, however, that the Ministry of Finance was agreeing with the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Finance did not accept what the Agriculture Committee is proposing to do. The Committee on Agriculture has decided to pay nine dinars this year and make the premium a dinar and a half. However, Mr Dinkic is not interested in what we are looking for, what we are asking for on the Committee, but because of the lack of financial resources in the finance ministry, he introduces additional taxes, i.e. value added tax. That's very interesting. It's interesting -- if one agricultural producer, who gets a loan and takes 50 dairy cows, and out of that 50 gets 20 leukous ones, which he has to sell immediately, and gets the value of 1,500 euros, and a million dinars will have to, after delivering those cows that have to be quickly slaughtered, because the milk is wrong, so he has to add, plus what he's losing, another 5% of taxes. And to make it even more interesting - we have today had a Committee on Agriculture where the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Labus, was and since it was a very interesting item of the agenda - information on the measures taken to control the production, transport of sugar and meet EU requirements for the return of sugar export preferences, he explained that this law on value added tax will affect that this no longer happens. But on the question -- how is it that the EU, led by "Mr. Olaf", is asking to re-examine who exported 190.000 tonnes of sugar, and to make it clearer to you that 4,000 droppers came out of Serbia and simply no one knows who it is that took them out. In the end, Mr. Labus simply says - he was angry with "Mr. Olaf" only because when he was visiting our hotel in the room there were "bugs", or as we say - buggers; that later, by going to the field at Miodrag Kostic, he was not allowed to check the paperwork. That's another thing. The third was - Mr. Olaf went to Kovacica and there from 5-6 workers received information that there was still sugar repacking. Here, this is the essence of which the MPs should adopt this amendment, to show that this tortured agriculture, which wore on the shoulders of this Serbia during the sanctions, should be left out of this Article, paragraph 2, or should be left out of the word "agriculture". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5210	I thank the People's Messenger, Christyn. Anybody else answer for a word? Here, the word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the discussion of my predecessor, it is apparent that the area of agricultural production has been requested to be free from paying the value added tax. In order for someone not to go out and say "well, I know, farmers won't be able to get a refund of funds, which are already invested in value added tax in the purchase of re-romitions", I would just draw attention to the MPs that the SRS has submitted amendments, taking that into account, means that complete reproductive agricultural material is released from the taxed added value. Our agricultural production is in a very difficult situation. Our farmers are the only ones who can invest is their own work. This amendment should be adopted in order to reduce costs in agricultural production. So far, no taxes on reproductive agricultural material have been paid. As of October 5th, Mr Djelic introduced the obligation to pay for artificial fertilisers, for seed goods, for food, for plant protection, etc. However, for some of his political purposes, especially marketing, he later prescribed amendments to the SRS, which he called amendments and amendments to the law and freed the sales tax. Now, you're reintroducing a kind of taxation. You call it value added tax in the area of agriculture, and hence, at the beginning, you increase the investment costs of individual agricultural producers. This, in any case, can and will also be reflected at the price of agricultural products, and on the other hand, because of the modest financial opportunities of our farmers, by reducing these investments will reduce and contribute. Thus, and even more reproduce the cost of agricultural production. Let us be aware that the only thing he does in Serbia is in a certain form of agriculture. Whether in the area of agriculture, livestock or agricultural-industry production, in the form of meat industries and mills, that's the only thing that's still going on in Serbia. By introducing value added tax on raw materials used by farmers, in any case, harm farmers. And now I'm only interested in the part about the fruit material, because usually farmers, in order to cut production costs, once they get fruit material from the institute, and the second time, as a second reproduction, they use their own fruit material, which they got from the previous harvest. Now I'm interested in whether the proposer, who unfortunately isn't here, predicted that farmers themselves charged a value added tax on their own wheat, reaped it themselves, when they once again wanted to sow it. These are the illogicalities of this tax code. Simply, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the finance minister have no hearing about the situation in which agriculture and all economic factors and entities in Serbia are located.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5212	Thank you. He's got a word... Nemanja, you haven't answered, first Mr. Teodorović Radovan, Mr. Nemanja, the word was received by Mr. Teodorovic, as soon as he finishes, you will also receive from the Rules of Procedure. Please be in place, answer the word, and when you get the word, you can stand up. I'm sorry, but you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5213	I'm sorry, but we need to clarify one of my esteemed and respected colleagues. Olaf isn't a gentleman, he's not a man, he's an organization that deals with trafficking abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5214	Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5215	Mr. Angelkovic, you hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure who I didn't want to advertise before, because you were obliged to give me your word as soon as I called to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so before you gave your word to the gentleman in the last row.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5216	Mr. Sarovic, by what member do you advertise the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5217	Mr. Angelkovic, first of all, Article 96, point 4. Then, I already explained that it depends only on my style at which point I will specify and quote which provision is violated. I would ask the chairman to warn those present in the O.R. not to earn. Article 117 has been injured, which says MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly. In the first row we have two cards, and only one MP sits; five cards are recorded in the fourth row, and three are MPs; in the fifth row four MPs are recorded, and only one is seated. It is obvious that the system is being misused and I ask you to reset the system and determine whether there are sufficient number of MPs present so that we can discuss this bill at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5218	Article 96: "The President, or representative of the parliamentary group, is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with the ability to speak for the longest three minutes. "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, is asking Nemanja Sarovic to read Article 96(4), where it is said only a representative of the parliamentary group can do so. When it comes to cards, I ask that all their cards be kept safe and that those who sit in the hall regularly keep their cards in the MPs' units. Therefore, in the same way, they should all refer to the parliamentary cards they possess. Milorad Krstin reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sarovic, please sit down, so when you get the word you can get up. This is the Assembly, not a theater where you can get up whenever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5219	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when an allegorical little call was made, I expected my colleague to fall for that trick and come out and give me the right to talk a little more. You see, yesterday after the pay phone, he praised the government, praised the ministry, and suddenly started criticizing, criticizing, and moved on to the SRS. My colleague, when you're such a custodian, why didn't you respect 9 dinars in power for the price of wheat and 1.50 dinars for the premium, what we agreed on on the Committee on Agriculture, but let it play out, like a man who's in the government or your esteemed leader. I think you should take a little care of that. Thank you for letting me go out again for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5220	According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who has not so far been clear about what the Democrats thought when they said it was a reformed SPS, I think it's clear to them now. Mr. Angelkovic has adopted all the worst habits and the excessive violation of the Rules of Procedure. I must inform you, Mr Angelkovic, and you, as vice-president of the Assembly, are obliged to know that the provisions of Article 96(3) and Article 4, which say that the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, can come out and talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, have been lifted by the Constitutional Court at the initiative of the SRS. So, that, Mr Angelkovic, is the right of every MP who, according to democratic principles, was elected by the SRS parliamentary group. I said earlier that an injured member was 117. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's obvious he's breaking up now. There are currently two MPs in the fifth row, and five identification cards have been recorded. You were obliged to respond as chairman to this, to say whether the injured member was 117, as I said, although it is quite obvious and to take the necessary measures to remove the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't do it, and that's why you made another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5222	Everyone has the right to express their doubts, every MP, and doubting the functioning of an electronic voting system has the right of a president or representative of a parliamentary group. That's clear. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5223	Let me say, I fully respect and respect my colleague, Christine, and I have nothing personal against my colleagues. He called me for my speech yesterday. I'll tell you what I meant, so there's no confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5224	Are you making a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5225	I'm hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5226	The fact that you're hurt, that's your problem. You don't have the right to a replica, because you challenged it. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have to call a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5227	I said yesterday, if you remember, that every farmer who has five tons per hectare has a profit of about 240 euros or 16,600 dinars. That's true, but I resented it because it was brought to be 9 plus 1.50 dinars, and now it's 7 plus 1.50 dinars. We're losing two dinars. Five tons of two dinars is 10,000, and there's a hand in the pocket of the peasants. That's what I'll always say, because here I represent peasants, not parties. He can't represent a peasant like this and make a mistake. I respect and respect my fellow Baptizer very much, but nothing is ugly. A colleague named Krstin lives in the city, and he wants to represent the peasants. That's a little harder.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5228	Now you've caused a replica. The People's MP Milorad Krstin called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5229	I understand, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when on many occasions I explain that I live in the country and I'm glad to live in the country. I'm glad my parents have been in the country for 800 years, ever since there's been a village of mine, working and farming. It's a clean farm village. My father is old and he left me to work 30 acres of land. No one else works for me but Milorad Kristin does. Milorad Krstin also represents all those farmers who wore and carried this Serbia on their shoulders. So, my dear colleague, I think we should understand each other in particular, but don't say you work and we don't work. I don't think that claim of yours is drinking water for a few times.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5230	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't mean to report for this part of the agenda, but I have to do it for two reasons. First of all, it turns out that we don't work well on the Committee on Agriculture. Mr. Krstin is a witness that we're doing a great job, so we're unanimous, but there's been a little confusion here. It is not the Agriculture Committee that determines the price of wheat. It happened this time that it was done by the Ministry of Agriculture, because everywhere in the world the price of wheat is on the free market, and that's how it's determined. So we can suggest, we can have an opinion, but the government doesn't have to adopt it. I think the price of wheat this year would be better if it were 20 dinars, that's what I'd like most, but what I can't, people should eat bread from that wheat. But that's not the main reason I answered. There's talk here all the time about the price of wheat and there's a hypocritical relationship and there's a defense of people from taxes being introduced here. I'll remind you that in 2000, I had a harvest camp in 1998-1999. I was full of sheds and maguses, because I didn't hand it over, because it was cheap, it was four dinars. It was only 2001 that I handed over the harvest that year, the sowing in 2000, and what cost me two years, because that year the price of wheat was twice as high. So, with the arrival of the new government and the victory of October 5th, the price of wheat was twice as high. Of course, the peasants weren't happy at the time, and the wheat couldn't live, there must be something much more to do. Only big, huge producers can live on wheat. As far as taxes are concerned, I'm going to set an example here. We have a silo and a combination, 100 meters from my house, a huge one that worked until 1992. In 1993, they've been successful, and since then, people haven't received their salaries, they've managed as well as they can. And that's when they sold the freaks, the pigs and what they had, and I'm saying it for taxes. You know what it's like to buy a pig, a pig, or a nun, and the maid is what's left of the wheat after processing, so what's given as cattle food. Do you know what the bill looked like: 9% military tax, 8% rail tax, I don't know how much taxes for mines and all that 14% traffic tax. Gentlemen, you were given to the government. Compare the value added tax and that way of taxation that was then. And then how you didn't think of the villagers and the problems, and that they were loaded. If you don't believe me, I'll bring it to you, I have these receipts, I happen to keep everything, and I have everything, so it's all in the files. So this is a normal tax that needs to be introduced, and you yourself said it had to be, and normally, as an opposition party, you have a grudge, but remember what it looked like before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5232	Does anyone else want a word by article 8. No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5233	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, an amendment submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS, asks for a new point to be added in Article 11 after point 4: "5) of water, electricity, gas and heat for households to be released from value added tax". The applicant's wish was to reduce costs, basic living costs when it comes to certain services provided by municipal or certain public undertakings, and given certain inflationary flows that will take place when this law is introduced. Even the previous government, which introduced electricity tax, telephone tax, water tax, in its subsequent changes and additions, wanted to reduce these taxes or abolish certain things. It is now continuing with this policy that the basic means of life, after the air, is water, taxing. Now the question arises, when one will think about introducing air tax, because the only air and the sun are not yet taxed by this bill. Even diplomatic and consular representations are freed from these things, only citizens of the Republic of Serbia have to pay taxes on those basic assets, and even those basic assets of civilization must be paid value added tax. And here I think first of all of the electrical energy, which has been reassessed, because you've been rebalanced again, you have this area of blue, green, red, there's been an increase in electricity. We are all aware of the affair that has been happening and has shaken Serbia over the past period, that the only justification that came from these affairs that the price of electricity has been increased due to the high cost of production, is not true, but that certain financial, banking, import and export lobbys would be enriched at the expense of Serbian citizens, tearing their skin off their backs. Now the finals of all this are coming, you've increased the price of electricity, and as the finals of all this, you're now introducing an additional value tax on electricity, on tap water, on gas, because there's already a lot of talk that gas installations will be pulled through all of Serbia. It seems to me that in this case the state only cares about itself, that it does not aim to care for citizens, and that the state exists precisely to regulate a system in which citizens, businesses and all other assets of civilization can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5234	The word is from the MP Vlad Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5235	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, value added tax, that's something that's inevitable for every modern state, in which financial order is known. Of course, we in Serbia have many companies on which chains and locks stand today, and chains and locks stand precisely because these companies have been robbed, and these companies have been robbed, because there was the possibility of manipulation and robbery, and that was precisely the secretion of sales taxes. This law on value added tax eliminates such a possibility of robbery and theft, and that is why it is the only solution, to introduce such a modern law, a law that knows Europe, knows the world, and if we want to be part of Europe and part of the world, we must accept European and world laws. It is the only option, which opposition MPs are asking, that chains and locks be removed from the factory, and that order and order be seduced here in this Serbia. If we want order and order, then we must respect everything the progressive world knows. Of course, we sometimes like chains and locks here, sometimes we like to hear the noise, sometimes we have to protect crime, because we think that as an opposition group we should court the voters. This law will introduce order in all spheres, even in the sphere of agriculture. We absolutely think that agrarian should be helped, but agrarian should be put in order, and, of course, when farmers register, when all actions are registered, when everything is in order, then we will have help in all spheres. I hope all MPs understand what this law is about. Let us not, one day, when someone is protesting in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be glad that someone is rebelling against the Government, and this tax and this value-added tax, we will certainly reduce all tensions, because simply, we are all aware that because of some previous time we have come into this situation, that we have a hot cake in our hands and that the budget has to be filled. Of course, it's hard to fill the budget out of consumption, it needs to be filled from production, and in order for chains and locks to be removed from the factory, then the financial order must be introduced. This law will do so and I believe that the Government has put forward a bill that will allow it. Of course, no law gives results on the day of adoption, but at a time interval of six months to one year there will be results. We were alive and we saw and, of course, we'll see if you're right or we're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5236	I thank the MP Vladan Vukevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5237	For four years now, we have been telling citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, that some who are in power correspond to chains and locks, responds to a javelin, responds to a robbery, etc. And we have experienced that from this pay phone a member of the ruling coalition repeats it at the moment of honesty. Anyway, let's get back to the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 11(1) to add a new point after point 4) which reads "5) water, electricity, gas and heat for households are exempt from value added tax". In this particular article, although we have heard for a moment that perhaps this amendment is not the place in this article, it is in this article that the issue of these water releases, electricity, heat and gas should be regulated. For a simple reason, 20% has been a water tax so far. All households in Serbia that are connected to water lines, measured by water, are paid in addition to the price of water and 20% of taxes. If the minister thinks the water will, among other things, not eight percent. I asked for an explanation, and Mr. Secretary wasn't here. I would like to explain now to the citizens of Serbia, if some product has a zero tax, so tax exemptions, how would it be cheaper if it puts 8% of the value added tax on it? Let us explain how 108 is less than 100, let the citizens of Serbia understand, I may be stupid, I may not understand, but the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic should be accepted, because he and all the other amendments, which the SRS has submitted, will mean improving this bill to an acceptable extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5238	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5239	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, pursuant to Article 141. Rules of Procedure, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Value Added Tax, which I asked to be deleted in Article 23. Paragraph 3 states that the minister is closer to edits what is considered to be good and services under Article 2(1)(1) and (4) to (12) of this article. In addition to the fact that it is another set of members who are given authority not to have it, we will thus come into an absurd situation that the minister determines what is considered to be bread, milk, flour, sugar and other things, and it is certainly clear that all of our citizens know it very well. What matters to our citizens and what you promised, when you came to power, was a better life for the citizens. Article 23 speaks about which products will be taxed at a general rate, which at a special rate of 8%. I would like to remind you that the largest number of these products is precisely one of those product groups that have not been taxed so far, i.e. products that have had a zero tax rate. Mr Dinkic said during the principle debate that this solution, the introduction of taxes where it had not been before, would not lead to an increase in prices, but that those products that had a zero rate would now have an 8% tax rate, in fact, lead to deflation; that these products would be cheaper. I really don't understand it, and I ask Mr Dinkic why a certain group of products is still left behind, which will have a zero tax rate, why didn't he then and these products burdened us with a tax rate of 8% and thus did our citizens a service and cheapened those products as well. The answer to this question is clear. Because these principles Mr. Dinkic tells here are simply not true and what is uncompromising cannot be reconciled. Minister Dinkic said here that the 20% rate, which was in the case of sales taxes, is changing by an 18% value added tax rate and that this way the products will become cheaper. Then the question arises, and I would like the minister to explain why the tax revenues will rise, even at 50%. It is clear that both taxes are irrelevant, whether the tax is on the market, whether the value added tax is on the line paid by our citizens, both. Then it's just amazing that 50%, which will have to come out of our citizens' pockets, does not reduce purchasing power, which must happen if the products are more expensive. For, of course, the great giants will not deduct the amount of value added tax from their margins, but that, as with sales taxes, they will finally come to the back of the consumer. It is truly amazing, as the minister says, that it will increase revenues on the one hand, and that it will reduce rates on the other hand, that the products will be cheaper, but that as much as 50 per cent more revenues will be in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5240	Thank you to MP Nemanja Sarovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5241	I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5242	So after the break. Resume at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please determine the quorum before the session continues. I ask all MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. I understand that by applying the electronic system, we have determined that 87 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have a quorum to work with. Before continuing, I would like to read confirmation of the mandate to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a mandate for Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of MPs in order to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Gordana Cabric, Branislav Tosic, Branislav Nedimovic, Zoran Nenadovic and Dusan Djurovic, elected from the election list Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Gordana Cabric, Branislav Tosic, Branislav Nedimovic, Zoran Nenadovic and Dusan Djurovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a law on value added tax (resuming in particular) we have reached an amendment to Article 23. Mr. Veroljub Arsic answered for his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you look a little bit closer at what the Proposer is looking for in Article 23, you can freely apply this amendment, which he submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Nemanja Sarovic, to be accepted. Be careful what the 3rd Mr. Secretary does closer. According to Article 3(3), the Minister is closer to regulating what is considered to be good and services referred to in points (1) and (4) to (12) of this Act. In point 1), point 2, the minister should tell us what bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible sunflower oil, corn, oily rapes, soybeans, and olives, which is the edible fat of animal and plant origin. I think the bill itself made that clear and that attitude 3, at least when it comes to point 1), is completely excessive. In point 4), the minister should determine what is good, which are called orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means – products that are surgically incorporated into the organism. The finance minister seems to consider himself a universal expert, so he is fully understood both in agriculture, in medicine, in economics, and in banking, in all the forms and occupations that exist in this world. It is even he who is responsible for determining what are good, which are called orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means – products that are surgically incorporated into the organism. At the very least, this should be the health ministry's job. It seems to me that Mr Dinkic considers himself more qualified from the area than his counterpart from the government and party Tomica Milosavljevic. As a highlight of all this, the Ministers who are the communal services to which this law should be proposed to pay value added tax. Therefore, the view of the SRS is that it is already Article 23, point 2. From 1) to 12) exactly what is taxed at a lower tax rate of 8% and that it is absolutely unnecessary for the minister to interfere in that part of the job. Only if he doesn't want to later, now here for the sake of the story, and later when the law comes into force, he says that here at point 1) he doesn't write bread but something else, he doesn't write milk, but something else, but something else, sugar, edible oil, etc., and introduces a tax at a general rate of 18 percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5245	Is anyone else answering this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until now, the government has proposed unsuspecting laws, at least in one piece. We've always tried to get them into some sort of order with amendments, so they could be applicable. One of the biggest nebuloses of this law is that the minister is closer to determining what is considered to be good and services referred to in points ( 1) and (4) to (12) of Article 2(1) of the Law. Is the minister going to tell us that bread is bread, and it's being released as such, that milk is milk, and it's being released as such, that milk products are dairy products, that it's a sunflower, that soya is a shotgun - soy shotgun. You're not going to, Mr. Minister, like then, have you not been to the minister, you were then governor of the National Bank, when Krmivoje got those two times 25 thousand tons of genetically modified soybeans. Then we needed one minister to say - gentlemen, this is not a genetically modified strain. It was a soybean gift from the U.S. government, so it went through the Krmivo mills, and it turned into cattle food, so we all ate genetically modified soybeans. Mr. Minister, if you've already put in Article 23, as far as the smaller rate is concerned, I don't think the minister should be any closer to determining what will be applied. We believe that this section, or Section 3 of Article 23, should be deleted. Only when these changes are made in law will the law look like the law and eventually it will be possible to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5247	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5248	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, I have proposed two amendments to Articles 23 and 24 on the proposal of this Value Added Tax Act. In Article 23, I proposed an amendment which essentially retains the position of the 1st member of the law and reads: "The overall value added tax rate for taxed goods and services or imports of goods is 18%"; and the rest of the members of this law are deleted. Of course, I was guided by the reasons I was talking about and in the principle debate on this law that a special rate of value added to goods and services or imports of goods provided for in the other part of this law should not exist. That's what I'll talk about when I talk about the amendment to Article 24. I must say that I understood the things the minister was talking about when it came to the level of value added tax, and for this reason, the issue was not raised in this amendment, because it was proposed to abolish a specific rate of value added tax. I understand the need for the state to raise the necessary funds for the budget, given the large commitments the state has. It has to be said essentially, because we talk all the time about value added tax, whether or not it will be returned to those who produce, whether the chain will be filled to the end. It is neglected, apparently, one small thing, which is that this tax will essentially be another additional blow to the citizens' pocket, because even when producers realize their products, they will seek part of the tax refund, if this rate remains 8%, of the value added tax, but it will affect the price of certain products and, essentially, the consumer will be affected. Then I'll prove it practically, because yesterday we heard from Mr. Minister that he would like to hear an example of what it looks like, so when I talk about Article 24, I'm going to very taxively list how the price of a product increases, which is the product and what it's going to mean for the citizens. The truth is, yes, the sales tax was 20%, and now the value added tax is 18%, but when I spoke yesterday, I asked one logical question, is the state of our economy such that it can withstand this rate, and we heard yesterday and today that the total revenue of the budget will rise by 37%. From what I understand, there's going to be a major inflow in the budget, and that's why this rate of 18% is being maintained, or why it's being proposed. But for the sake of truth, I must also remind the citizens of Serbia of what is not said clearly enough, and this is the thesis that I represented yesterday, that at the moment of the introduction of value added tax in several countries of Europe, the rates were lower, because the state of business was such, so as the level of economic development increased, the rates increased, because they obviously increased the state functions that should have been reconciled from that value added tax. So, for example, in Denmark 1967, the tax rate was 10%; in Germany 1968 10%; in Spain in 1986 12%; in France in 1968 16.66%; in Ireland in 1972 16.37%; in Luxembourg in 1970 8%; in the Netherlands in 1969 12%; in Austria in 1973 16%; in Portugal in 1986 16%; in Sweden in 1969 11%; in Great Britain in 1973 10%. They weren't, as I say, mutative, when they were doing this and when they introduced this kind of value added tax rate, they took care of the state of their economy and the possibilities, but they took care of that last link in the chain, and it's called a citizen, an ordinary consumer, because both in one way and another, and through a general and at a special rate, it will affect the price of the product, and there are many that affect life, the standard of living. For this reason, I have submitted this amendment, therefore, to keep the general rate, because it meets the needs, i.e. guarantees the inflow of the budget in terms of how much the state needs, but to eliminate the specific rate of value added tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5249	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? First, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, then Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5250	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in this Article 23. The bill, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Igor Mirovic submitted the amendment, shows the futility of yesterday's session, when Mr. Minister said that some things should not be released from value added tax, because later on, everything will be connected, the producer, thanks to lower and general tax rates, will receive a certain refund of the tax paid. As an example, Mr. Minister listed bread and allegedly bread raw materials are taxed by 18%, but he will therefore introduce a 8% tax on bread and then the manufacturer will have a vomiting of some differences, 8% or 7%, all depends on what the novelty value is. It seems that when the minister explained it, he did not know that bread was made out of flour or he did not know that the tax, according to his bill, was 8% flour. Maybe he didn't know water was needed. Water is often referred to as a municipal service, and here at point 12) of Article 23 reads that municipal services are paid 8%. He didn't know that they were raw materials for making bread and that according to this Article 23, the same thing is paid by the salt tax of 8%. I'd just like to remind Mr. Minister that, apart from the water, which the old minister was charging taxes on, all other raw materials were tax-free based on a tax statement, and electricity, Mr. Minister, is. Now let Mr. Minister come out and explain to me how it's possible for 108 dinars to be less than 100 dinars. This is the problem that draws the value added tax, and this is the demagogue that has so far been behind this speaker and which has been said, that by introducing a value added tax of a given food, which we can freely count in life supplies, it may be cheap, and in the worst case, it will keep the existing price level. What does Mr. Minister put at a lower tax rate? Bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible oil of sunflower, corn, oily rapes, soybeans and olives, edible fats of animal and plant origin. All of this so far, Mr. Minister, both as raw materials and as a product of broad consumption, has been released from sales taxes, and you are now introducing these value added tax products. Further, fresh and chilled fruits, vegetables, meat, fish and eggs. By amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, on the basis of the SRS amendment, I can freely say that Djelic prescribed them, these products were exempt from the sales tax. Further, medicines listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds in accordance with health insurance regulations. That's what Mr. Minister introduces a tax rate of 8% and so far it's been tax-free. Orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means – products that are surgically incorporated into the organism, and this was exempt from sales tax, and now Mr. Minister as a representative of the promoter introduces this value added tax. Further, fertilisers, plant protection products, seeds for reproduction, fruit material and livestock, and so far this has been exempt from sales taxes, and now the minister introduces value added tax. The textbooks and curricula, and that was exempt from the sales tax, and now is paid under this proposal for value added tax. Next, the heating tree, down from 20% to 8%, and the utility services that were paid 20% so far, has reduced to 8%, I don't want to make mistakes in my soul. One of my colleagues said that from the past decade, the share of the personal incomes that citizens have received or as you like to say, profits... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I've quoted so far, Mr. Chairman, the provisions of the law, so there must be at least another minute and a half... that Serbian citizens spent about 40% to 45% of their own personal income or earnings on food supply. As of October 5th, wages may have increased nominally, but the fact that Serbian citizens are now spending about 60 per cent to 65% of their personal income on food supply and basic life supplies. Another colleague of yours, Mr. Minister, comes out of the government of the Republic of Serbia and says -- you know what, inflation is below 1% this month, but unfortunately, it's costing the consumer basket by 4.5%. What determines... (President: six minutes, Mr. Arsic, please finish. ) Mr. Chairman, I ask you to deny me the time I took while reading the law, because according to the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, quotes and reading the law do not enter the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5251	Mr. Arsic, the law is the same for everyone. I would like to do so if you had come out of the Rules of Procedure and quoted the Rules of Procedure, it is my duty, but since you quoted the law, it is your free form of expression on the amendment. Be kind, finish, six minutes and 30 seconds are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5252	Let me finish, Mr. Chairman. It's very small, as you say, 4.5% more expensive consumer basket, but also inflation slightly below 1%. Most of the money that citizens earn is used for that consumer basket. Don't talk about how you managed to protect the standard of living of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5253	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5254	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be really good if, when we talk about amendments to this law, we had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it would be interesting to know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks about this amendment, which our colleague Igor Mirovic submitted to Article 23 of this Law. We would do well to know if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aware of the economic and social situation in Serbia, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aware of how much Serbia's citizens literally have nothing to eat, how many pensioners are quietly dying of hunger, whether the Serbian government is aware of the social benefits and how many people are increasing the number of social protection users daily. It would be good if the government had given some reason not to accept this amendment, because I suppose it does not accept it, unless we have a different opinion, and the minister, as a representative of the government, is not being declared. It would be really interesting for Serbian citizens to hear how the Serbian government takes care of its citizens. I must repeat that the position of the SRS is and that it would really be necessary for every authority in this country to take care of that and such an attitude, that the laws passed in this assembly be passed in order to be good for the citizens of Serbia. We must not allow ourselves to pass laws that are bad for the citizens of Serbia, which are only good for the government, which enable the Government to fill the budget and fulfil at least part of its obligations by emptying that budget. In Article 23, where counterpart Igor Mirovic suggested erasing points 1) – 10) and 12, there is a special rate of value added tax of 8%. I really want to meet Serbian citizens on what that value added tax is paid for by 8%. It is bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible oil of sunflower, corn, oily rapes, soybeans and olives, edible fats of animal and vegetable origin. There is further fresh and cooled fruit, vegetables, meat, fish, eggs; medicines listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds, in accordance with health insurance regulations; orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means – products that are surgically incorporated into the organism; dialysis materials, fertilisers, plant protection products, seeds for reproduction, fruit material and farm cattle, textbooks and materials, heating wood, hotel accommodation services, motels, resorts, homes and camps. It would now be good for the minister to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs in this parliament -- how the interests of citizens are protected, which is a layer of citizens who are protected by the government. And that story we've heard here, that the application of this law won't lead to an increase in prices, it's just not true. Lively and seen, this law has been in force since 1 January 2005, and it is possible that two or three months to keep this price level, because traders will not even increase the price before applying this law. But when it goes through, then, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen who will not vote, obviously, for this amendment, to delete the 8% VAT on all of these products that I just read, I really think you have a great responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. After two or three months of application of this law, when the price stampede starts, when inflation, already announced by the governor of the National Bank, starts a new 500 dinar bill... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... When the euro reaches 80 dinars, perhaps more, then you will really be obliged to explain it to the citizens of Serbia, it may be a bigger election campaign for new parliamentary elections and this law will certainly speed up these extraordinary parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5255	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Nedeljkovic. Just to clarify, so the MPs don't get confused, those who don't follow the discussion. At the beginning of each amendment, it is read whether or not the Government has accepted it, and you have received materials in which it is clear that, for this law, all amendments have been made by the Government. You have a detailed report. Please use the materials you're getting. Here you go, Mr. Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5256	As for Article 23 of this proposal, I will stick to point 3, which says that at a special rate of 8%, medicines listed in the list of prescriptions and burdens on health insurance funds are taxed. In other words, we use the term "so-called" in health care. positive and so-called A negative list of medications. My colleagues from the profession will, hopefully, understand well and probably think intimately that this amendment, this intervention, should be adopted. What's this about? So-called positive and so-called. The negative list of medicines includes certain medicines. The first association when saying "positive list" and "negative list", is likely to indicate that "positive list" requires medicines for treatment, and that on that "negative list" are more or less non-essential medicines, as auxiliary medications, etc. But that's not the point. Both on the "positive" and on the "negative list" are practically the same, equal medications. The "Positive List of Medicines" determines the government by its regulation, and on a proposal from a specific commission formed by the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health. There is no objective, rational criteria for the classification of drugs. The same drug, the same drug, if produced by two different pharmaceutical houses, is on the "negative", or on the "positive list". The reason why this is so, we don't know and we don't need to know, but we all know there's a lot of drugs on the "negative list" that are necessary for the treatment of patients. We understand that the Health Fund, or the government, can't sort all the drugs into what's called the so-called Health Fund. a positive group due to increased costs, i.e. expenditure from the Health Fund. However, the finance ministry should not have treated these groups differently on the drug market, i.e. drugs that are on the positive list taxed by 8% and medicines that are on the negative list taxed by 18%. The drug manufacturer on the positive list is therefore privileged. Now for the second time, we favour this manufacturer by taxing him at a lower rate. I know the finance minister, by the nature of things, isn't sent to this area, but if he had a little communication or coordination in the government, the health minister would probably recommend the finance minister to correct this anomaly. In principle, medicines should not be taxed at all, but if the Minister of Finance's firm position is that they must be taxed, they must be taxed at the same rate. The Government must not impose discrimination on the drug market. The manufacturer of the drug "A" must not be privileged against the manufacturer of the drug "B", if the drug "A" and "B" are equal. There's a lot of patients who take medicines with so-called. They buy positive lists, they don't have patience, they don't have time, they don't have the opportunity to get to the recipe. And, if he buys it, why would he define himself for a drug that's taxed by 18%, when it can be defined for a drug that's been taxed by 8%. It is therefore inadmissible for the government to bring such discrimination into this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5257	The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5258	Mr. President, esteemed ministers, fellow MPs, after almost a day and a half of discussion on VAT, I was under the impression that the essence of the billing and the way VAT was paid was not understood by all MPs. Since it's a profession people don't need to know, I thought there'd be enough explanation for Mr. Secretary. However, as a member of the Committee on Finance and a man who has been in financial and accounting affairs for over 20 years, I would like to make my contribution to clarifying what VAT is. His inevitability, his necessity, the need to introduce VAT, at this point, there's no need to talk, because it seems to me that we're all in agreement. What VAT contains and how it is calculated, in certain segments of the current Transport Tax Act, we meet with such an account. Today, tobacco, alcohol, and coffee taxes are calculated in a similar way. Our taxpayers and tax administrations are not foreign. So when we get tobacco, alcohol and coffee, we also meet at this point with suppliers' invoices, which contain two amounts. One amount is the purchase value of the goods, the other is the tax charged now at a rate of 20%. In the case of the sale of cigarettes, alcohol and coffee, in the quantity to be sold, as the tax is paid on sales value, the sales tax is calculated and the value calculated in the invoice is reduced. We will have the same principle from January 1st, when VAT is introduced. In that sense, I am optimistic that gray economies will not be, that all people who run companies, businesses and businesses will simply want to buy from legal suppliers, from people who will charge sales tax in their invoice and account. Every next stage of taxation must be smaller than the previous. What is very important, therefore, is that the biggest tax is paid in the first stage, which is the stage when you get the raw materials. After that, production or sales starts, depending on the work you do. Never will that tax in a tax period of 15 days or a month be burdensome for you, because production is never equal to purchases. What I'm saying is that only the tax difference from the purchase price to the sales price will be paid at some point when the production is 100% fulfilled in relation to the purchases of raw materials. Each bill, every mathematics and one that will be shown in practice, will significantly relieve taxpayers of VAT payment burdens in the period when they make the first purchase. After that, he will feel relieved because I am the name – the tax on extra value, says that the basis for that tax is just added value or, more specifically, as much as you want to install your margin, your difference in price as yours, as a seller or producer. I hope there's no need to argue over the validity of the VAT. Simply, I don't think we're in a situation to break tax rates, because we're a country that's headed towards the economic system, because we have a lot of people who depend on that budget. If we're sentimental about these people then when they're on the street and we all say they need salaries, then, gentlemen MPs, let's fill that budget. Let us be the first, let those private entrepreneurs and owners of companies that are now working try to fill that budget through VAT, so that it's better for all those who depend on that budget, and later other people, stimulated by the functioning of the economic system, will open up businesses and businesses. The more taxpayers, the less obligations they make to other people. All tax laws that have been passed so far, and all those who follow, I mean corporate tax, which is the next point, show the will to dissipate as many private entrepreneurs and all legal entities as possible. We started with personal incomes. Since July 1st, we don't have 3.5% of the income tax, which is significant in total when profits are paid. (President: You're out of time. You'll see, we'll talk about VAT, which I say is extremely good and stimulating. Let's start with the VAT from January, so if we have serious objections to tax rates, there's no law that can be changed in walking, in the time it's being conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5259	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the Government of the Republic of Serbia for changing the process of passing this law. We, MPs, have received this law where it stands to propose an emergency procedure for adoption. In the meantime, the government has changed the procedure and defined it to be under regular procedure, which has made it impossible for us, some MPs, to give or invest, hopefully, valid amendments. So that some amendments will simply not be considered today, and the solutions offered will be affected in a smaller or larger way by certain actions or goods and services. Well, for that very reason, I've come to the attention of this amendment. First of all, since we are discussing the amendment submitted by Mr Mirovic, I would like to support the proposal as an MP and member of the SRS, although I understand that the parliamentary majority and the government will not accept the amendment. But at the same time, I want to speak today as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, given that certain letters, suggestions, have arrived to the Committee, to submit certain amendments to this law. And just for the reason I listed it at the beginning, it just couldn't be done. Thus, the Union of Beekeeping Organisations of Serbia sent an amendment to add honey to Article 23, which falls below the 8% tax rate. Unfortunately, this was not proposed by any MP by the amendment, and I, for what I have just said, was prevented from doing so, and at the same time, I apologize to the Alliance of Serbian Bee Organisations for not being able to comply with their request. This solution, offered in Article 23, will significantly damage the veterinary profession, as well as those using the veterinary profession services. So, cattle organisations, cattle producers, because as you can see, veterinary medicines are not included in item 2, which is a special rate of value added tax of 8%, but will turn out to be taxed with a general rate of 18%, which can significantly affect veterinary services, the price of these services, both ultimately and economically, and the rentability of that production. I'm really sorry the Ministry of Finance didn't take care of that, because there are solutions like that in Europe, that veterinary medicines are taxed at an 8% rate, which means a special rate. With this solution, believe me, the Government and the Ministry of Finance will cause anger and revolt over 3,000 veterinarians, who are engaged in veterinary activity, precisely because veterinary medicinal products will be taxed literally at the general rate. I want what was proposed in Mr Mirovic's amendment to be considered more seriously and perhaps, in a situation where we are state and people, to accept and perhaps as a temporary solution to this 8% tax. And I hope that the veterinarians and the veterinary profession will very quickly send a proposal to amend this law to the part where they are considered damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5261	The word has been given by MP Miroljub Maric. Do you want to talk about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5262	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I had no intention, as a specialist doctor, and I work 24 years in healthcare, I specialize in pulmonary diseases and tuberculosis, to discuss tax laws. I've been waiting for the drug law and medical supplies. However, here is the coincidence that today I have to answer because we have one provocation from the SRS and fellow Members of Nedeljkovic. I have to express my disdain. It's a commentary on the taxation of drugs on the positive and negative lists. Please, if that's what a colleague wanted to do, like, tentuously, or otherwise, to say it. First, the definition of drugs from the positive and negative lists is not correct. It is not true, gentlemen, that there are some selected drugs on the positive list, and that there are some on the negative list who, behold, are in awe, if I may say so. Please, the positive list includes medicines that are necessary for treatment and which are most effective, and third, medicines chosen by the expert commission; and most importantly, medicines on the positive social security pay list, and there is a problem. The problem is the price. So it's not right at all to talk about the discrimination of individual producers, that the privileged drugs on the positive list, with a rate of 8%, are not privileged drugs on the negative list. It's not about the drugs being good or not. The drugs on the positive list are necessary, and the drugs on the negative list are paid. So much for that subject, there's no delusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5263	You asked for a replica? Did you mention that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5264	Yeah, my colleague said that I said some provocation from this pay phone when I wanted to explain the principleal differences between drugs on a positive and negative list, and there's no difference. Now, if I were not to abuse this assembly, if we were to conduct some professional discussions, the colleague stated that on a positive list the necessary medicines, quality, efficiency, etc. I'm sorry about the auditorium, but I'm still going to have to give you a simple example: hypertension - increased blood pressure. We all know what that is. We know who the antihypertensives are. We know what first-line medications are in the treatment of hypertension, and that's what they're called. Anti-inhibitors, and again I apologize for this termology. There's a "catopil," like the first generation, thrown off a positive list. "Enalapril" stayed. The approach is on the positive list, tritace, hemocrin, monopril are on the negative list. My colleague, please, do you know of any principled difference between these drugs? Pharmaceutical houses are climbing up and struggling to put their preparations on the positive list, but the commission that decides not to meet for two years. And that's the only reason they're not on the positive list. I don't mind keeping a positive and negative list, but I urge the finance minister not to tax additional drugs on the negative list. Why? They're being discriminated against. They spend a lot less because they can't get a prescription. Well, let it go then, on the same terms they sell it on the market, just like they sell it on the positive list.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5265	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5266	I'm sorry that we doctors run replicas, but first, we doctors, all of us, belong to one party, which is Hippocrates's, and only later do we divide into other parties. My colleague Nedeljkovic is absolutely right. We have a situation today that, for example, in gynaecology, the only drug used after the fourth month of pregnancy is gynaecology. He's not on the positive list, and I don't know which commission took him down without talking about the other drugs on the list. As far as hypertension is concerned, let me tell you an example in Kamenica, my colleague Marko Kovac, a professor of hypertension, he prescribed me "dilkoran", "karvilex", "arifon", "lometazid" and "acisal". None of them are on the positive list, and I need to drink them. So, Minister, he's right, don't increase and make a difference, because there are manipulations, those who give medications, who push themselves and who don't push themselves on a positive list. So equalize the medication. I'm sure that's fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5267	The word has the People's MP Milan Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5268	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to stop the monotony of medication. I'm going to stop a little bit of an expert drug symposium, because what's somewhere is a cure and where it's not a drug that's very discriminatory and it's meant for health commissions, which are chosen the way they're chosen. We saw in the project - Health for 2003, written in Mladenovac, what experts wrote, and then on 20 pages, hundreds of commissions, four or five members, family-bound persons. They made us a health cap and a lot of things that are still being touched today by the VAT law. Let's say, the dialysis problem. We heard yesterday that close to 4,000 patients are being treated with dialysis, physical, out-of-body, total and over 4,000. The average price of one dialysis treatment is from 4,000 to 7,800 dinars, three times a week, and this will turn out to be about half a million dialysiss in Serbia within a year, with an average price of nearly 100 euros per year. Why am I saying this? If this is taxed by 8%, two basic issues are raised, how will the tax chain find houses that either import dialysis, domestic houses, or participate in the production of dialysis. Participation in production; usually a membrane is ordered, made by two or three world producers, and will be paid VAT. Whether it's 8% or 18%, it's writing dialysis material, and that's not all yet, it's just a segment, participient of future consumer material. Whether other structures, PVC granulate, which may have another non-purpose purpose, will equally be taxed. If he only takes it from a dialyser factory, if he takes someone else's face over it, it'll be cheaper. Will it be in the same relationship as those who produce and those who import finished goods? Will competition be equally developed? Whether or not to tax additional consumer material, such as catheters, dialysis approaches, for out-of-body and physical. Their price is over 100 to 150 euros per unit. How high is the incidence of patients who are starting dialysis treatment, that this is why we are growing, because the quality of life is increasing in dialysis. Why am I saying this? Sometimes a patient has to buy it, because the facility often doesn't have the means to rebuild the catheters. If the patient buys it in the big drugstore, it costs, because she's got it on. In social security, he's going to refund the price of what he paid and he's never going to get what he invested, because he's going to tell him -- that's what our rule book costs so much. Today, when refunding, some different prices are given, never realistic ones. To refundate what to say only if you tax and built-in materials, if they're teflon graphs for blood vessels, what if it's a heart valve, you know how much it costs, and only a pacemaker. People are waiting for a hip today for two years, four years for the categorization and to do the surgery. If they want to cut it short, they're forced by the current structure to buy it in order to move faster, and on the side of the refund. At the start they picked up because he paid the VAT when he took it, so the VAT one drugstore, the big drugstore, so he's bound to buy it at the store where the doctor made a deal with the pharmacist, and if you buy it there, then it's worth it, and if not, he won't install it. You can buy it in Germany and bring it in, and he won't install it, because you didn't buy it where there's commission. So, we're additionally taxing creating an additional problem, we're additionally burdening one who's sometimes going to have to buy, and on the side and the state. If we go into the budget 8% more than that, we're going to pay more dearly for what comes back, so it looks like she's taking -- giving, in some global assessment. As with dialysis solutions, it's what our factories do. If water is taxed by 18% or 8%, separate that water that goes into chemistry, which goes into the preparation, into the injection, into the solution, from the water that is technological. How do you divide the water in a tap? How do you get clean salt? Is it 8% or 18%? How's the other salt coming in? It's a very complicated procedure and that's why it might be better not to touch it, not to tax it, because it's finally going to cost us dialysis, so it's going to be more of a health fund again. Then that's the question when he gets a certain fund of money and now he needs to send it to the hospital, if he's going to settle the debts first, or if he's going to pay first. It's a source of social unrest. I want to say about textbooks, because that's a close problem. Our textbooks work in small circulations. In many colleges, they write their own professors. The textbooks have never been taxed before. If they are now, they will be even more expensive, there will be new motives or if teachers blackmail them, that they charge them for money textbooks, or those who don't do it to be profit teachers, because they'll copy textbooks. The topic is about textbooks and monopolies behaviour of professors, whom the government can now do so in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5269	The word is Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out to say as a doctor and I don't agree there can be cures for good and bad. Every drug that works is good. I understand the state, I understand the government, I understand the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance when there's no money, and it's divided for drugs on a positive list and on a negative list. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am speaking to the Minister of Finance, imagine one thing that is clear. If we take any of the diseases, let's say hypertension, since it's mentioned here, there are some drugs that are on the positive list, they work in some patients, and others don't work. That patient was simply sentenced to pay for that drug and to pay for the tax. He's been damaged in two ways. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the Ministry consider this carefully for the sake of patients and for the people who have been damaged in two ways. Em's sick, they have to pay the cure, the tax. That's not right. As a doctor and as an MP, I don't understand, nor will I accept this excuse from the Ministry of Finance. I don't allow someone twice as damaged as a patient in the end line, or as a man who also stands out for health care. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a sick man has only one wish, to be healthy and to be cured.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5271	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5272	We heard the representatives of the medical profession, how I figured it out, so let's hear some representatives of the people, for as long as possible. We have heard a number of amendments from MPs, I have no doubt of their honesty and good intentions, and I propose to the minister that all these remarks we have heard are certainly made. Not to change his bill at the moment, but to do what all the countries that introduced value added tax did. It is that in the first year of applying such a law, changing and supplementing it, it corrects something that may be unjustly done in this congregation. That's what all the countries did. I will remind you that VAT entered Europe, first in France, then Denmark, far in 1967, that VAT entered the EU countries, these developed countries, during the 1970s, that it entered the transition countries, in Hungary in 1988, and in the early 1990s and other Eastern European countries that entered the transition. Every country, every country, every country, has changed this law, especially tax rates, after the first experiences. I think this must be a clear message to the Ministry and the Republic Government, which, I hope, I am firmly convinced, will have enough time to offer proposals to amend this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5273	The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5274	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 23 absolutely enables all those people, MPs, and citizens who do not understand what the value added tax is, that they can criticise everything in this article. It is evident that in this article today the press is also writing. I think that SPO colleague Sanja Cekovic clearly explained what the value added tax is. It is certain that this article is absolutely preventing speculation and any machination in the process of production, in the purchase of raw materials and in the start of the production process. Let's just remember that time of sanctions from the Nish tobacco factory, when you couldn't have cigarettes on a regular sale, and there were cigarettes from the tobacco factory all over Serbia on trades and streets as long as it was supposed to be, the whole market covered. This value added tax absolutely prevents producers from exporting goods to the black market. Of course, I am also convinced that there is no minister who wants to tax bread, milk, books and medicines. But since we're in a very specific situation, we have two tax rates today. What does this rate of 8 percent mean? If we think about it now, we wonder if there are more people in this country who can endure this correction, the price of certain items, and it's very small, if any, or more of those who need help. We're sure there's more to pay and less to help. But everyone needs help. We just passed the Social Protection Act the other day, just for those reasons to help the most endangered part of the population. How do you do it? Of course, they'll be paid out of the budget, and that's why we have to sort of fill the budget. Kragujevac has 10,000 employees at the Employment and Education Office. These workers are paid out of the budget. If there's no money in the budget, they won't have any receipts. If they don't have receipts, they won't be able to live. So, absolutely none of us here are working that there is this rate of 8 percent, but at this point it's inevitable. It is also certain that, as humans, if we see the situation and if it is inevitable, we will take down certain rates over time. At the moment when the economy is revived, when in some ways the growth of production in this country is higher, when it is possible for citizens to have higher incomes, in any case there will be greater releases and certain goods may be released and fully taxed. I'd like to join all of my colleagues and yet in some way we'd like to realize that there's no need to put the same item in two tax rates in some way. I think it's absolutely right, and I think the minister should look at the possibility that simply medicines should not be taxed at an 18% and 8% rate, but that the drugs have one common rate and that the rate is lower. As soon as conditions are met, we feel that bread, textbooks, and all other provisions of life need to be freed. Let us hope that time will in some way affect citizens' living standards in the coming year will be better and that this will all be negligible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5275	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. It's a withdrawn amendment. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The Government's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5276	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted a second amendment to this law. The amendment to Article 24 is a word. The bill adds goods and services or imports of goods for which a value added tax is proposed not to be paid. In fact, the essence of this amendment is to remind myself only that those goods and services provided for at a special rate are transferred to a category of goods and services at which a special rate will not be paid. I'm saying this for one simple reason, which we've been talking about for the past two days about producers, distributors, taxes, budgeting, the need to fulfill the functions of the state, and we're neglecting, not by chance, that end-user in this whole story, which is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Because with both taxes, both general and special rates, a citizen will be in a position to pay more than ever the price of certain products. A number of fellow MPs have also mentioned such a situation today. I don't think there's much special evidence here. However, the more we prove that this is the case, there are colleagues who claim that nothing will change, and you will admit the essence of the story is not so. The amendment, which provides for the addition of this Article 24, provides for very tax-based goods for which it is proposed not to pay that value added tax. And what is essential, and here we have heard the story of medical means and materials for dialysis, is one human question, is the number of patients who use this material for dialysis in Serbia, and there are, I mentioned yesterday in the debate, about 3,649, so that the state can knowingly give up that part of the tax and thus make a human human gesture. For example, not to mention medical means and products that are surgically incorporated into the organism, because there are different goods here, their market path is very different, let them be realised immediately the next day, and let them not, because it takes a certain time for certain products to be realised on the market and to obtain at all the opportunity to recover this part of the tax they're talking about. I promised yesterday, and today; I'm going to show on the case of the book what it looks like or what it's going to look like in practice. Namely, if we take a book that costs 100 dinars per sample, repromaterial, press service, it will charge that price with another 18% and we will have a production price for the book, which includes these 118 dinars, which is added by the author's fee, calculated 28.7%, translation fee also, design, correction, lecture, and also 28.7%, and I note that by 2001 it was 14%, so it was increased. When all these costs are collected, they form so-called. sales price of the book. According to the publisher's data, in a circulation of 1,000 copies of the book, that sales price is formed at 1:3, which means that 118 dinars are added these three parts, I mean 52 dinar costs and we get to the amount of 170 dinars, and that's the cost of the book. In sales, it is multiplied by three and it is received 510 dinars, and of those 510 dinars, the bookstore, so the sales network, takes 30-40% of the publisher, if we take it as 30%, returns 357 dinars, but under one very simple condition – that this book is sold. What is the situation and what is the economy in our country, that book will not be sold for the next year, two, three, four, and even say that there are books that are not sold in six or seven years. When, unlike the production price, 8% are charged, we get a figure of 537 dinars for one book. I'm saying it doesn't matter; it matters. You can tell if it's a smaller or larger increase than 27 dinars or something, but it's increasing the price of that product, and that's what consumers will feel. It's sad that there's such a relationship in the book, especially in our society, that there's always a lot of smart heads and where the book was appreciated, and what the book means, and we're definitely coming up with the situation that in rich societies the price of the book is lower, and it looks like those of us who are poor, the price of the books is higher. On one simple case, I have shown that these 8% have connections and that they will mean a blow to the consumer's pocket, and that they will only profit in that chain, i.e. have their own benefit, but will also have consequences for consumers, but negative ones. That's why I proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5277	The word has a minister in the Serbian government, Mr Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5278	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just for this amendment one brief answer. So tax exemption, with the right to deduct the previous tax, is not possible for these products listed by the MP. There's not a single law in the world that allows for two reasons. Budgetary is the main and the Sixth Directive of the European Union makes it clear that it is possible for some of these products to put a zero rate, but without the right to deduct the previous tax. If we had all these products, with the right to deduct, that means a huge deficit in the budget. I really ask the MP to give up this amendment, because if he were to adopt, he would have to translate into another category. So it's not possible for all of these products to have a zero rate with the right to deduct and no one has it in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5279	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5280	Gentlemen, I am surprised by my colleagues who say that the value added tax is a tax similar to that of categories, because basically, the tax transferred is a tax on goods or finished products. The value added tax is a tax on goods. So, on raw materials and tax bases, it comes from creating a certain good. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment and asked for an extension of the list of products and goods that were exempt from value added tax. I asked for a new point to be added in Article 24 after point 16 to point 1 of Article 24, that the value added tax is not paid on "17) household water" (i.e. for tap water for which citizens are now paying sales tax). Then, on "the bottled drinking water of domestic origin," because once the minister attacked me, and the entire SRS parliamentary group, that we want to release the imported excise juices, and thus endanger domestic agricultural production, so we wanted to say, with this amendment, to protect something that no one in the world can challenge, that quality, which is bottled water, and to protect the industry that deals with this business. Further, "electric energy for households, thermal energy for households, gas for households, heating for households, bread, milk, flour, sugar, edible oils, edible fats of plant and animal origin, fresh and chilled fruit of domestic origin, vegetables of domestic origin, meat of domestic origin, fish of domestic origin, eggs of domestic origin... "It means to take positive tax policy, i.e. When we introduce a new tax, we protect the domestic industry, the domestic economy, which, as well as these conditions, manages to cope with the import lobby, which imports goods and which, due to low customs rates, makes unfair competition. The introduction of value added tax, even where you have an exemption in case of exports, costs caused by the added value product remain calculated at the price of the product, regardless of whether it is on the domestic market, whether it is exported. Furthermore, on medicines listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds, in accordance with health insurance regulations. For this last part, I apologize to my fellow doctors, because I didn't know that there were medications for the treatment of the same disease, some are on the list, and some are not, and I thought they were on the negative list of aspirins, diet drugs, anti-medicines, and so on. However, I did not know that there was such a lobby here in the country, and that it deals with which producer or importer will be, and their products, on the social security list. Further, orthotic and prosthetic means, as well as medical means. Seeing those previous discussions, you can also see senselessness, Mr. Minister, Article 23, paragraph 4, where you asked to determine which medical and prosthetic means it would be. Minister, I am speaking to you personally. Products that are surgically incorporated into the organism, dialysis material, fertilisers, plant protection products, seeds for reproduction, fruit material, breeding livestock, diet products, children's diapers, toys for children, baby aids, textbooks, teaching tools and municipal services – this is what I asked that this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, exempt the value added tax. Over 90% of these products are now free of tax traffic. I don't see how that, Minister, of this current budget, which is still too luxurious and now too burdening the citizens and the economy, is going to hurt. By accepting this amendment, you would prevent something which in any case is the only advantage of value added tax, it is hidden in its very name, which is skillfully concealing the imminent production of inflation, and that price rise is moving from 5 to 22%, with some period between 16% and 18%... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... There are other negative consequences of one of these types of taxation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5281	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5282	Thank you. I was just thinking, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that this law on value added tax would tax everything, and I feared that G17 plus will provide funds for the next pre-election campaign, when it is said in Article 26: "The VAT is not paid for the import of goods: 2) which, in the framework of the customs procedure, will be temporarily imported and re-exported, as well as put into the customs procedure of active processing with the suspension system; 3) for which, in the framework of the customs procedure, temporary exports and in the unchanged state of imports are approved; 4) for which, in the course of the customs procedure, a process of processing under customs control has been approved; and 6) for which, in the framework of the customs procedure, the customs war is approved. "Since October 2000, so to speak, many dances have been with the OECD, with customs papers, that goods have entered Serbia, that have been sold here, and that the papers have gone to the border of Republika Srpska, or the Croatian border, or the Bulgarian border, and have returned certified. National MP Milorad Mircic requests that the very points that I have listed, 2), 3), 4) and 6 be deleted and that the tax exemption for this part of the bill is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5283	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5284	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this amendment to Article 26 should be accepted, because in any case, by accepting it, there is no great harm to be done to anyone, and by not accepting the provisions of this Article 26, which was often the case here, especially when it comes to cigarette smuggling, oil and oil derivatives. The goods entered Serbia, stored somewhere under allegedly customs supervision, and physically exited, and finished most of the work on the domestic market. This is the example a colleague here said of tobacco reprocessing, when it comes to the low industry, when you had to buy exclusively domestic tobacco industry products, with excise stamps intended for export. The goods were fictitiously leaving Serbia's territory, freed and ended up on the black market in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Such a legal proposal, where no deposit is paid on goods that are under some kind of customs supervision, and that customs supervision is very suspicious, because I had the opportunity to see customs invoices, for example, jeans were painted with 1.2 euros, that the entry value of these pants was 1.2 euros, or gloves that cost about 70 pairs. So you can see how much trust you can have in the customs service. There were examples that even customs inspectors (Mr. Minister, you have your assistant, so talk to him in the cabinet, here in the Assembly) tried to carry out ex post control of the customs procedure, that the goods were not there, and that the legal entity, or legal or physical person that imported the goods, for which there is a solution to work, there is a home number, there is a tax identification number, it can't be found at all. I believe that there will also be such cases with this slave in Article 26 and the conditions listed in points 2), (3), (4) and (6). What surprises you, and that's your part of the job, is that since your customs inspectors couldn't carry out ex post controls, you informed the MUP to find the owners and founders of those legal entities and to get the job done. That's why I think you should accept this amendment. This is one of the few amendments submitted by the SRS, and it requires that your bill be stricter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5285	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th amendment was submitted and withdrawn by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. The 29th amendment was submitted and withdrawn by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. On Article 29-29, the amendment was submitted and withdrawn by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? He wants to. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5286	Ladies and gentlemen, the promoter in this article has determined that taxpayers who believe that they will not meet the requirements of 2 million dinars of transport, at the beginning of the calendar year, and in later operations believe that they can accomplish even greater in some legal time, should report this to the competent tax authority and begin to account for VAT under this law. However, what is controversial in this part is that the later obligation of the taxpayer lasts at least two years from the moment of accounting and keeping a VAT record. We think it's too long a deadline and we've suggested this amendment to be a year's worth, because it's quite an appropriate deadline. The situation on the market is such that it is difficult to predict how much traffic a certain taxpayer will have, given that we are still not able to see the consequences of VAT when it starts to apply to the economy, how much traffic there will be, how much traffic will be in certain activities, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially when it comes to craft operations, especially when it comes to independent individual producers, whose value of goods often depends on weather conditions, and not only on the conditions created by the state and the current conditions of supply and demand for their products. I think this amendment should be accepted by the Proposer. It's one small technical correction of his law. There can be no harm in accepting his amendment. And by not accepting it, we will condition certain economic operators to keep records for two years and pay one relative set of taxes, or, if they are not able to close their businesses, their trades, and thus, by leaving someone without existence, the country is left without its own obligors.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5287	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5288	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Darko Glisic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, requires that article be deleted. We ask that it be deleted, because this is the continuation of these amendments that the SRS has endured so far, and this is about agriculture. Up until now, more than 90% of reproductive material and agricultural products have been required to be free of VAT payments in amendments to the law on added value. It should be borne in mind that our agricultural production is extremely reduced, that investment costs are already too large, that so far reproductive material, such as fruit material, artificial fertilisers, food and plant protection products, cattle, has been released from paying any sales tax. And now we're introducing a sales tax on goods, under the pretext that the agricultural producer, because most of the goods he uses are taxed at a higher rate, and he's selling them at a 5% rate, that he's got some kind of refund or vomiting from the state. The fact that someone thinks that this is an advantage is basically one big mistake, because it is about agricultural producers that have income just enough to provide certain capital to reinvest in agricultural production. Force them to do business, as you say, through the current account, as art or I don't know what definition you used there, that means they'll have to run accounting. Imagine that a farmer must keep tax books, tax records, which are mostly not qualified, and then he will have to hire and pay the accountant, who will have to do so for him, write to the republican and regional tax administration to return funds, to submit certain accounts, balances of success, tax balances, etc. To expect this from the agricultural producer at this point is an illusion, especially in most cases, of people who are qualified just to work agriculture, they have no idea about accounting, they have no idea about tax policy. Force them to do business as businesses and as entrepreneurs, to do business through a current account that withdraws and some other expenses. Because just now, Mr. Minister, you were boasting that for a very short period of time, you transferred payment traffic from the National Bank to a business bank, and you didn't say that the cost of payment traffic increased by about 5-7 times. It's a cost for anyone who decides to do business as an entrepreneur, as a craftsman or as a legal person, to count. That is why we believe that this amendment and the government and the parliamentary majority should accept, in order to reduce investment costs in agricultural production, in order to improve standards and farmers, and by improving their standards, there is an imminent improvement in the standards of citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5289	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5290	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the 34th is at least vague and incomprehensible. The first part of this article applies to farmers entitled to VAT-based compensation if they deliver any of their or forest products they collect. VAT fees, as it is called here, are recognised to farmers carrying out the transport of agricultural and forest products, i.e. agricultural services to taxpayers. This fee is 5% of the value of the service, i.e. the product to be delivered. That's what's not controversial, which is good in this law. However, the second part of this article, or attitude 5, is controversial. According to point 5, at the beginning of the calendar year, the farmer may be defined for the obligation to pay VAT by submitting the registration records prescribed by this law to the competent tax authority no later than 15 January of the current year, provided that he has achieved the total turnover of agricultural and forest products, i.e. agricultural services of more than one million dinars in the previous 12 months. I tried to interpret this and figure it out. Here the promoter wanted to in a certain way stimulate farmers to produce more products and to opt for this type of VAT payment, to sort of replace some of the funds they give for the purchase of livestock food, repromation, machinery, based on this tax. But on a simple case, this hero, I tried to figure it out, and I came to an account that doesn't speak so affirmatively, but says the opposite – that the farmer has a loss. If the farmer loads in June and one piece for an increase of 400 kilograms, from calves to a June of 500 kilograms, spends two tonnes of concentrates, he will have to pay for these two tonnes of concentrates based on VAT 3,600 dinars, through the purchase of that cattle food. When he sells June, say, 100 dinars, he'll get 5,500 dinars, and he'll pay 8 percent based on VAT, which is 4,400 dinars. The difference is 800 dinars. He will recover the 3,600 he has invested for the purchase of cattle, but he will have to pay 4,400 for producing 500 kilograms of meat, so it is in the loss of 800 dinars per piece. It's about farmers who have millions of dinar traffic, and that's 20 pieces of throats that feed, at 800 dinars, that's 16,000 dinars of loss. I'd like you to deny me, that this is something different, that the villagers will have motive to apply. It's about motivation, how to motivate them to apply. Why does it make a difference? Why is it necessary a million dinars to be a taxpayer of VAT, if that VAT brings him some stimulant and some profit? Why isn't that left to those who don't make millions of dinar traffic? Why does a man who drowns eighteen instead of twenty throats not have that stimulant but only one who has drowned 20 pieces? I'd like someone to clear this up. Maybe we don't understand enough. Maybe you're right. If you are right, we will accept it and welcome it, but I would like it to be clear to us, but also to the public, means to those who are directly interested, to agricultural producers, who will also benefit and benefit from all of this or all of this will be at their expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5291	Here you go, Mr. Minister, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5292	Well, here, let me get this straight. As far as VAT compensation is concerned for agricultural producers, it is not an obligation but a right, the possibility that a farmer, if he sells his goods to someone who is a taxpayer of value added tax, may require a fee of 5% of the value of the goods he sold. So it's not a commitment. If he wants to sell at the market or someone who sells it at the store, he doesn't have to ask for compensation, but if he sells it to someone who's going to sell it later in the store, he's sure that whoever travels and wants to sell eggs in the supermarket, he's in the interest of 5% refusing to tax base. And the farmer himself chooses whether he wants to or won't. He's not making anyone. Also this - farmers are not, under this law, bonds of value added tax. They can, if they want to, if they're recalculated to make it worth their while, ask them to become bonds if they have over a million dinar traffic. They even themselves with all those who do other work and have over a million dinars of traffic. Therefore, it is not an obligation for agricultural producers to be in the VAT regime, and therefore this special fee of 5% is prescribed. You can be a farmer without being in the value added tax regime, and if you want to receive a 5% fee by selling the goods to someone who is in the regime, to a trader, then you sell it over an account and it pays 5% at the price of your goods. Then, this trader refuses to pay his taxes to the 5%. I repeat again, they are not bound, they can decide whether or not they will. Farmers have the advantage of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5293	The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5294	Mr. Minister, you haven't cleared up what I've been looking for. What you said to me is clear and probably everyone in this room. This law allows the farmer, who delivers his product to the taxpayer, to have 5% of the fees. You say if he wants to. I guess it's normal that he wants to, because that's what's left for him and he just gets it. So it makes sense that he wants it. It's not whether he wants it or not. He wants it and he'll take it. But he'll take it from the taxpayer. So if he sells to his neighbor, who's not a liability, he can't take it. He can't take it from a bonder. The second thing here is not clear - whether a farmer, who is a taxpayer, who has applied to pay VAT, can use that 5% VAT fee. The Minister can't. Well, he can't, but it's not clearly indicated here. It can't be so - you're finding out about it now in consultation with your associates, and it's not standing anywhere in the law. You haven't explained to me the bill I pulled, I'm curious. To kill her, not to explain to me what's already clear to me, those principled things. So, the bill he's going to be stimulated to sign up to pay the VAT. And I'm interested -- why does one who doesn't have a million dinars per year, why he can't, he's denied, he doesn't have the right to apply at all. The right is only the one who made over a million dinars. He has a right he doesn't have to use. But whoever didn't make millions of dinar traffic doesn't have the right to do it at all. And why he has no right-- that's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5295	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5296	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment submitted by MP Sreto Peric should be accepted. He just means one technique to make an account. It regulates, in addition to all these tax laws on the added value of the provided items, which must be indicated in the account (name, address and PIB of the obligor – place and date of issue, regular number, name, address and PIB of the obligor - recipient, type and quantity of the goods delivered, type and size of services, date of transport of goods and services and the amount of the advance payment, amount of the underlying, tax rate, amount of VAT, notice of tax exemption) to be entered - the date on which the invoice arrives for payment. And all of this is to comply with some of the provisions of the Final Account Act, which is now in the procedure, because of some of the items. It seems to me that the aim of the proposer of this law is that only what is in the interest of the state be in this law. What's in the interest of citizens, businesses - not necessarily. The result of all transition countries – and I am trying to defend Serbia, a country in transition, just don't know whether it goes forward or back – which blindly accepted value added tax as the backbone of modern fiscal reform, that there has been an increase in retail prices, economic borrowing of the economy, a fall in purchasing power, a rise in costs, a decrease in sales that cannot cover costs, a rise in cost of life and a double increase in the income of the state. This is because tax exemption has been constrained, which is reduced to zero tax exemption, which is precisely this tax exemption for which SRS MPs have submitted amendments - to food products, which is the number of products with so-called products. the tax base is significantly narrowed down, etc. However, the old truth is that a state that affects too much from the value of national production can lead to a failure of the economy, in which a decrease in production will inevitably reduce the tax base, in which a high tax rate is built in. That's why the price of tax reform is very high. The only effective tax control can most rigorously absorb tax debts and reduce tax avoidance, with the hope that the company will also charge its claims more easily and faster, such as the state, in this case, Serbia, which is the only one who cares about the collection of its incomes. And if all of this were true, you can check in the executive departments of trade courts. You'll see that there's a very large number of cases, which are in the executive procedure, a few years old. That is why we asked that this amendment also introduce the provision that the law requires the date on which the bill comes for payment, given the legal proposals that are in this session in the procedure, so we will talk about it a little bit more when these legal proposals come on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5297	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52, the amendment was submitted and withdrawn by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. Also on Article 59. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 60th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5298	Only for a short time on this article 60. We have submitted two amendments: the first to delete Article 60, and the second to reduce these amounts, which are foreseen. This second amendment is an alternative. So, if not accepted first to accept the second, and should be accepted first for the reasons that these criminal provisions are already contained in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. So, there are already criminal provisions for violations on these grounds, and it would be good to accept that first amendment of MP Petar Jojic, and if he does not accept it, we are going to this alternative to reduce these penalties, given that they amount to 100 to millions of dinars are extremely high, at least for these conditions in which Serbia is presently. We think it would be appropriate for it to be something lower. We have proposed this amendment to be between 10,000 and 500,000 dinars, to be punished on this basis, for the violations listed in Article 60.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5299	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5300	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the one and the other amendment, submitted by the MPs of the SRS, makes sense. These are amendments concerning the criminal policy, which is implemented by this government according to the taxpayers if they show the tax, but are late with his payment or if they do not calculate it properly. It's not said if it's more reckoning, it's just less. At the very least, it is surprising that the proponent of the value added tax introduced the criminal provisions because the criminal provisions were already regulated by the law which was recently in the procedure. It was the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where Mr. Minister up to two, five, even ten times increased some fines, counting that a tax that was not calculated or miscalculated could be charged up to five times by a tax collector, or tax inspector. So now, by introducing criminal provisions into this law, we simply have a situation where someone can be punished under one law, means the law on value added tax, but also by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Both types of punishment are dragonish. Only one is quite enough, so we believe that these criminal provisions should have been thrown out of this bill anyway, so one of our MPs went to reduce the sentence, and the other MP asked that this member of the bill be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5301	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Prime Minister and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5302	In Article 68, Mr. Minister asked that the law enter into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication, starting to apply from 1 January 2005. In one of his exhibitions, he said that this law was passed because of the harmonisation of tax laws with the countries of the European Union and that this harmonisation is one of the conditions for joining the European Union. Mr. Minister comes out for this speaker and says it is not one of the requirements of the European Union, but I don't know, and I didn't call on the Sixth Directive of the European Union, and if they don't ask us to join them, then the question is whether the only purpose of adopting such a law is to ensure, regardless of the price that the citizens will pay, that your budget deficit is resolved, and that your budget deficit is solely because of the excessive foreign budget of the Republic of Serbia, the side where the money is spent. It's a beautiful story if you create a commitment on one side, but a country like Serbia, with the economy it has, can come out of a crisis like this not with a drastic tax policy, not with drastic tax rates, not with a criminal policy that the promoter gives, but exclusively cheap, efficient, capable administration, with saving state money. In view of the fact that one such law is due to the European Union, given that your most recent predictions are that we will enter into the accession process of the European Union in 2011, I asked that this law be applied from 1 January 2016. Thanks to the speed of implementation of the reforms of the previous government and the one representing the continuity of the previous one, membership in the European Union countries can be expected at the earliest in 2016 provided that this government remains until the end of this year. If that doesn't happen then that deadline will be moved for another ten years, and since we expect you to fall out of power very quickly in any case, perhaps before the end of this year, if you accept this amendment, we will only make one correction, to begin to apply from 1 January 2010, because then the Serbian Radical Party will certainly introduce Serbia into the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5303	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Bogdanovic. The Government's representative and the Financial Committee adopted this amendment, with a legal-technical editorial proposed by a proposing representative agreed by the applicant. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Tax Tax on Transport (Principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about amendments to the Transport Tax Act. This law ceases to apply on 1 January 2005, if the Assembly votes the law on value added tax. Therefore, this proposal contains only one member. It's a very short bill. The current Transport Tax Act has prescribed that all those performing goods and services, other than agricultural producers and self-skillers, who sell agricultural products and their own products on liquor markets and similar facilities, and their own crafts and domestic activities, have an obligation to record traffic through fiscal registers. We believe, for various reasons, including adequate software solutions for recording traffic in certain specific activities, that this provision of the current law on transport tax is very rigid, which is why we propose this proposal to give power to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, on a joint proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, it can bring closer regulation, i.e. a sublegal act on which legal persons are exempt from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal registers, due to the specificity of the activity they are carrying out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5305	Do the representatives of the committees responsible, the Finance Committee Radojko Obradovic and the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed an extremely short draft of the law, but here the minister has lured us into the applause of the work of the MPs, by reading a part of the member who already exists in the Transport Tax Act, so it turns out that he is now doing services to agricultural producers. I would like to say right away that the provision that agricultural producers and owners of independent craft shops, which sell agricultural products on liquor markets and similar facilities, do not now have the obligation to record traffic through fiscal registers. A new right is introduced for unidentified persons, and for an undefined number of persons, and for indefinite professions, for undefined goods, whose traffic will be carried out in an undefined place. Practically, it is given to the Government, i.e. two ministers, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services, to assess and determine which persons, due to the specificity of the activity, will be allowed not to record the turnover of fiscal cash registers, because the creation of an application programme is disabled in accordance with the technical and functional characteristics of the fiscal register. In the light of the draft law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia tells us that there is some practice of countries that have implemented fiscalisation and a significant number of initiatives, associations and associations of various activities and chambers, to exempt certain actions from the obligation to register traffic through fiscal registers. The government knows for which individual activities the chamber and associations require to be excluded from registering traffic through fiscal registers. The government knows what kind of goods are in the countries where the fiscalisation was carried out, it just won't tell the MPs. What made the idea of proposing this law to the government of the Republic of Serbia? She's got some initiatives, she's met practice in other countries, but she doesn't tell us what the services are, which is traffic, which is goods, so there's no program for the fiscal transport of certain goods. I want to know what kind of goods they are. This is the law, the Transport Tax Act, applies to all citizens of Serbia and is passed by the Republika Srpska Assembly. If the traffic of cars, if the traffic of cigarettes must be registered through fiscal registers, because the MPs voted on it, then some traffic of unidentified goods cannot be excluded from fiscalisation, because it will be assessed by the minister. The minister now has information on what kind of goods are, in which place, which the service cannot succumb to fiscalization. Imagine, because of the technical characteristics of the fiscal register. Come on, Mr. Minister, let's get one amendment to exactly state the tax on goods, the services, the place where the services are provided, and make it an integral part of the law. I can never agree with a member of the law in which he says - and what is now predicted will be decided by the minister and he will announce to the public his solution, by his regulation, which goods, which service, in which place is not subject to fiscalisation. As far as we're concerned, it can't go that way. So, you know there's a release, there's a need to execute, let's know that we do. We're responsible for being introduced to some people. Now someone will meet us at the market and say, "Are you MPs, why did you bring me the fiscal register?" They will meet Mr. Minister, and they will tell him – thank you, Minister, for not introducing us with a fiscal register. You can't do that. This is legal matter, this is not matter for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Liberation from registering traffic through the fiscal register is not a matter for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Then we shouldn't have the law, in law mandatory fiscalization. You could have said that the minister would determine what traffic was going through the fiscalization, which is not going, and we finished the job. You don't appreciate the congregation at all. This way, you appreciate it a little bit, to assess the one who is subject to fiscalization. And whoever doesn't, that's what the minister's going to estimate. One minister or government can never replace 250 MPs. We will be against this bill, and we will vote against it until you inform us enough, that you do not keep us in the bliss of ignorance, because we are here asking that we be informed of what we are making the decision. I'd like to ask an MP who likes to throw away, and he hasn't learned anything in his life to let me go when I criticize the minister, who's been at war with his party president. At least that's how much that Mr. Ambassador owes me, who hasn't said a smart word about a pay phone yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5307	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS and SPO-NS. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5308	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fiscalization has, in some ways, introduced a lot of interference, especially in certain layers, i.e. in certain circles. We have nothing against fiscalization, and we believe that the fiscal register is something that will also lead to order financial flows and stabilise our economic situation. We believe that no exceptions should be made, or if exceptions are already made, then they cannot be made within one branch. I want to say that this argument given here, that no proper software solution can be found, is not the right excuse and is not the right answer that will satisfy all those entities that are obliged to have a fiscal cash register. I want to say on behalf of all private doctors that private medical chambers, private doctors think they are in an absolutely subordinate position, because private doctors are obliged to have a fiscal register, and social health is not. What's our indicator and what we think we should do in perspective is that private and social health is equal. As a private physician, I haven't seen a single excuse to have fiscal cash registers, for one simple reason why private doctors don't pay, or so far haven't, sales tax, and they've paid a flat tax. Of course, if we want to equate private and social health, then we need to have fiscal registers both in private and social health. I wouldn't want my discussion in any way to ask anyone to introduce a fiscal cash register, but I think we're in an unequal position, and I mean, if we want there to be no negative polemics, then we all have to put it at the same level. What I'd like to say is, I don't think maybe we've been able to locate the problems we have in society. There are perhaps 4,000 private medical offices in Serbia, but there are certainly 4,000 registered, 4,000 unregistered offices. Of course, when we know that there are certainly 4,000 unregistered private offices besides the 4,000 registered, then we can see how many illegal offices there are and how many employees there are in them. Looking at it through only one part, through private medical practice, we can imagine how many illegal and unregistered businesses are in other activities. What's blackest is there's no legal regulation that anyone can control unregistered entities. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia made sure to pass such a law, as it exists in all European countries, where there are certain agencies that reveal illegal entities, then we would have a lot more payment operators, and, of course, much more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is why I believe that this subordinated position of certain people and privileges may create doubts about correctness and perhaps good intentions for the individual and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, I think we should look at the possibility to create a comprehensive single legal act that will put all economic entities in one plane. No honest, no honest merchant, a businessman, has anything to do with fiscalization and cash registers, but all those who feel hurt in relation to the same brand in the social sector that is freed, such as private medical practice, we believe that such degradations of certain structures are not good and, of course, cause suspicion in good faith. Private doctors want to get even in every segment with the social sector. Of course, the indication is that the social future is private, so if the indication is to keep it private, we haven't seen a single reason why the private doctors got the register. And they have fieldwork. It's very difficult to go with the fiscal register on the ground, because, in addition to the emergency, it's hard to carry a fiscal register. I think the other doctors have the same attitude and opinion. Of course, I am sure that Minister Dinkic of the private medical chamber of all doctors has been given an opinion and opinion, and I think it is necessary to consider the possibility that private doctors should be freed or balanced. I would once again underline the parallel and say that we must make sure that in this country Serbia has many unregistered business entities, that there is no legal possibility that any inspection can enter a private medical office that is not registered, not a private store or a private producer's activity, and I argue that only Kragujevac has many textile shops or textile companies that are unregistered, illegal and, of course, are not subject to tax pay, nor are they in control, nor are they obliged to report workers, nor are they obliged to register manufactured products. If Serbia sees how many of these unregistered shops there are, make sure that most of us here are surprised and that this would be a significant incentive if it were to register by filling the budget. I once had a chance at a meeting to propose a solution that exists in the world: an agency to detect illegal entities. Then the finance minister said he didn't want us to be snitches. I don't think it's a rat's job, but I believe that all those who receive, hire and earn should have obligations to the state. Only people who work legally, legally register taxes, have legal workers, control themselves, so if someone who's not registered is found, there's a great legal penalty for them. For all those workshops, which employ a huge number of workers, there is no legal possibility of punishment or control. I would ask once again Minister Dinkic on behalf of all private doctors, all private offices, to consider the possibility of lawyers and tourist agencies, and private doctors, and taxi drivers and, of course, all those who are somehow released. On the other hand, if we want to have no doubt, then we're ready to be all equal and we all have fiscal cash registers. It was a much better solution, because this is how now that tourist agencies are not obliged, that lawyers are not bound, that taxi drivers are not, why should a doctor in an emergency intervention who also has a field have a mobile register. I think it's a degradation and, believe me, on the Health Committee, the Deputy Trade Minister said that doctors report one or two patients, and we're kind of afraid we don't have a rich doctor in society. A society that fears rich doctors I think is wrong, because there are no rich doctors here, and we need to know that it's not easy to get to a doctor's degree, that doctors finish their studies quite late, specialization, late starting a family, late start working, stressful work, and many don't get a pension. For these reasons, I appeal once again to consider this possibility and to free private doctors and private offices from fiscalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5309	On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5310	On the basis of Article 100, because a colleague has called all of us fellow doctors, to give a clear view of whether or not private doctors should have a fiscal register. Ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor who has been working for 31 years, I can immediately say that I work at a state firm, and I don't think it's right for doctors to be divided into private doctors, patients to be divided into private or public; the patient is a patient, and if we want to develop the private sector at the same time, it's logical to be equal. If they're supposed to be fiscal registers, then be in both the state and private sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now choking on this private practice. It's usually said, we want to go to the center of the patient. How do we put it at the centre of attention if he can't choose between the private sector and the state sector? Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, you know well that services must be paid in the private sector, and they cannot be selected by the expertise of people. I believe that fiscal registers slow the development of the private sector, and in every other sector private sector is allowed to develop and stimulate, while doctors are not allowed at all. So I appeal to the finance minister, he's a young man right now, and thank God he's healthy, but a sick man is always looking for a better doctor and a better service, and some time and a nice word. So, gentlemen, let's let a sick man choose who he's going to go to, so he doesn't get damaged in two ways, which is what he has to pay for, and those fiscal tills will, after all, pay for the patient. Normally they'll switch to the price. I once again appeal to the Ministry to lift the fiscal registers to the private sector or to introduce everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-13-0.u5311	Since we've come to the end of hours, I'm setting a session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
