ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 220 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 106 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. No MP has informed that he has been prevented from attending the National Assembly session. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt proposals for decisions on the termination of office and discharge of judges and public prosecutors, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and the proposals for decisions on the selection of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, submitted by the High Council of Justice. You've been delivered logs from previous sessions, but since we've found that there are no 126 MPs in the room, it's not possible to vote now. In voter day, we'll also vote on the logs. With a call from the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was called upon by 102 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Fifth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposals for a decision on the termination of office and the resolution of judges and prosecutors, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee and the motions for a decision on the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, submitted by the High Council of Justice. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION AND DETERMINATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATIONS AND OF THE PRESIDENTS For this point of the agenda, you have received proposals for decisions submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration: 1) Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction, 4) Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Judge's office of the Judges of the Court of Justice in Užica, 5) Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Judges of the Court of Justice; You received a notice from the High Council of Justice to withdraw proposals for the election of a district attorney at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje and the municipal public prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. In addition, you have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee on the examination of the motion for decisions on the selection of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consent to Article 156. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of the promoter, Branislav Ristivojevic, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee and Zoran Stojkovic, a member of the High Council of Justice, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4469	There was a proposal for the Buyout, so that proposal was withdrawn. I'll listen to all the objections, their arguments, and we'll eventually make a statement about someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4470	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4471	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, this session has begun with a delay and this suggests that there are certain problems in the work of this Parliament. Unfortunately, they exist from the formation of the ruling majority. Today, we have witnessed several agreements and consultations that have yielded some result, but I don't think that's enough. What I think is very important for Serbia today and for this Parliament, is that we agree, that the more time we spend in the conversation, if necessary, and that after that the decisions we make are decisions of full legitimacy and decisions that will truly be of interest to our citizens. I think it is important, above all, to demonstrate the stability of this institution and to work in this way, to be an integral factor in our society that will unite, to a greater extent, the political factors that decide to a greater or lesser extent on the fate of our citizens and our country. First, I must express the dissatisfaction of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club with the general policy of the government of Serbia towards the judiciary, contrary to election promises. The work and activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the judiciary has been reduced to human change and I must admit that this is not a good way to establish an independent judiciary. Today we have on the agenda a proposal from the High Council of Justice to appoint a number of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, and all the consequences of the Law that we of the DS assessed as unconstitutional, a Law relating to the public prosecutor's office, which, on a proposal from the Government, adopted two months ago. We then warned of a few things: one of them is that, by law, we can't, just because the ruling majority was created, whatever the ruling majority was, past the Constitution and, by law, the prescribed procedure was replaced by both judges and public prosecutors. I must inform this esteemed home that the Constitutional Court has adopted the initiative, that the constitutionality of these laws is being considered, and that this National Assembly will have to come forward very soon. But since these are positive regulations, we are working on them today, and if we dispute legitimacy, we certainly do not dispute legality, and that is why we are having a debate today on these proposals. These proposals were prepared very quickly. Practically, both the National Assembly and the Justice Committee were in some sort of teat. On the Justice Committee itself, a practice was created that is not good, which is far worse than the practice we had in the Committee on Justice in the previous National Assembly, which is that the Committee has reduced itself to some kind of administrative body, which, without arguments, gives an opinion on the proposals made by the High Council of Justice. The High Council of Justice has, and in the discussions in particular, given a number of proposals this time for the selection of public prosecutors, i.e. deputy public prosecutors, a series of proposals that are not only relevant to the aspect of dignity, from the point of view of expertise, from the aspect of everything that should be done by a biography which, unfortunately, we Committee members have not had the opportunity to see. Note, the members of the Justice Committee did not have the opportunity to see a single document on the basis of which the High Council of Justice has made the decision that it has sent us, but there are even proposals that are not, or at least are due, the question of meeting the conditions for the performance of these extremely important and honorable functions. But what hit us the most is that our hunch came true from the time we fought against the Public Prosecutor's Law here, which is that, because the law provides for some kind of re-election, that is to say, the termination of the role of the public prosecutors elected in 2003, which, if you remember, I also quoted the Constitution here, and I think it is absolutely unequivocally unequivocal that this provision of the law is completely unconstitutional, has come about what we were afraid of then, which is that there will be a resolution of a number of prosecutors, and that none of the legal reasons for their resolution has been laid down. So we have a situation where someone who's been a public prosecutor for 20 years, has his own office, has his own family, his own desk, his own cases, doesn't have a single disciplinary application, he doesn't have a single stain on his career, there's nothing that could lead to the idea that a trial could be initiated against him, to get rid of the public prosecutor's office. We come to the situation that by the decision of this assembly and the majority that is formed here, which is already formed on the Justice Committee, which is the majority that makes up the largest SRS parliamentary group and the ruling DSS coalition, as the holder of the ruling coalition, because of that majority, we have a situation that some deputy public prosecutors who have worked for 20 years, who have nothing to rest, there is nothing ugly about them to say, that they will be left without their job, or without their function. We have a situation where people, who have done their job fairly and responsibly, are resolved without knowing why their resolution happened. In a formal and legal sense, it won't be a solution. In a formal legal sense, it will only be the application of the provisions of the law that we still consider unconstitutional, which was brought here two months ago, and the fact that these people are not re-elected to their functions. I find it inadmissible and humiliating for Parliament that his Committee on Justice is not worthy to receive any written explanation from the High Council for Justice, except for something that looks like this - in three sentences, the Justice Committee gave its opinion. Regardless of the uncontested authority of the High Council of Justice to propose candidates for the holders of judicial functions, for no reason do we give up our rights, as MPs, through our body of the Justice Committee, to read in the extreme case people are concerned about, what are their life and work résumés when we have to give an opinion. If this is supposed to be a practice in the Justice Committee, then the herbs would be fairer to us here if we also abolished that practice and that the Justice Committee would not consider these cases. I think the High Council of Justice itself, and probably certain people, bearers of the prosecutorial functions involved in this business have made a number of administrative mistakes. These are administrative mistakes for which neither the Ministry nor Parliament can be held responsible, even less the Justice Committee. We can only be responsible for not asking the High Council of Justice, the holders of judicial functions, of the uncontested judicial authority to respect this parliament, at least as much as we respect the holders of the judicial authorities. I'll tell you one example that I think is very bad. It's about the lady who was the deputy public prosecutor at the Third District Public Prosecutor's Office. The lady is called Gordana Nedić-Isailovic, the lady is currently on maternity leave, sick leave, but this National Assembly will practically resolve her by its decision, or leave her without a job, probably today, tomorrow or the day after the vote. On the contrary, this is the position of a public prosecutor's organization, and in its place will come a man from the law enforcement authority that we do not dispute, and at this time I want to point out, therefore, that I do not dispute, because we will all work together and the Ministry of Justice, and that is one of the conclusions of our meetings that does not happen to these people, and especially these cases, are left without a job, but that in the first next election their fate is resolved in a just and appropriate way. However, I'm not sure we've been able to reach such an agreement on the deputy public prosecutors in Novi Sad. Namely, at the place of Deputy Prosecutors Dolovac Zagorka and Jovic Slobodana, therefore, they are deputies at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad with an internship of over 20 years, the deputy public prosecutors from other places come, so they have their jobs, they have their salaries, they have their families to support, they come to their jobs, and these people, whom no one, therefore, has said anything that would suggest anything as prescribed by the law for their resolution, these people remain out of work!- I'm sorry. So these people are going to lose their jobs -- and what's the problem and what's going on, I have to admit that I don't understand, but it would be good if we could pull together and solve this issue. We're going to have a lot of votes here, namely, there's a lot of controversy -- I mean the election for the municipal public prosecutor's office, there's a lot of them, and for the district attorney's office and for the vice-presidents of the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office, from different parliamentary groups and this number, exactly this number of complaints from the MPs say that we need to return our justice committee to this home in relation to the holders of the judicial authorities. We do not dispute the judicial authority, but we must ask that with materials we receive biographies, and not that on the Justice Committee, the debate is conducted without any written argument, or honor of exceptions, sometimes some MP makes an effort to find something, but unfortunately, now there has been little time, practically, two or three days to consider this topic and we could not adequately prepare ourselves. As a result, we, as a parliamentary club, have come to some solutions that we certainly consider indisputable and which may not be indisputable to that extent, but which we simply have to support because, by applying the legal provisions by 15, we have to make a choice of new deputy public prosecutors. There are a number of places where we disagree, where we suspect a resolution is being made, so again, I repeat that it is a resolution, so that some euphemism may not be called a solution, so that certain deputy public prosecutors are being resolved, and that is by some political or other means, but rather, there will be political, sympathies, or antipathy. For this reason, I do not know what the discussion will look like, I am here to dispute the election, and I ask that there be a particular vote on it, therefore, by the district attorney, i.e. Deputy District Attorney in Pozarevec - Ljubisa Vasic, therefore, Sabac - Radenko Angelic, Nis - Milovanovic Radmila and the municipal public prosecutor in Sapac - Ana Pantelic-Negovanovic, of course, the MPs of my party will present some more disputes and we will ask the Assembly to declare them. As far as Belgrade is concerned, as an MP coming from Belgrade, I must say that the proposals of the High Council of Justice in one part are well-conceived, but completely unclear. The Justice and Administration Committee intervened against the views of the public prosecutor's profession and the High Council of Justice, so, let's say, it made certain changes, so to speak, and we hope that the other parliamentary groups will support us that some of the names that have been challenged are still chosen, because these are people who undisputedly deserve it. I mean the case of the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, it's Mrs. Zoran Colledin, who, by the attitude of the profession and the public prosecutor's organisation and the High Council of Justice, is an indisputable candidate and fully deserves the place that has been defined here. Of course, in the further discussion, we will also refer to the case of the dispute of some other deputy public prosecutors, primarily deputies, or candidates from Mr Ostojic, who is purely politically motivated and I repeat, political belonging or doubtful political belonging or conflict in private from childhood, school days, student days, this cannot be a reason for someone here to use political influence and to resolve the public prosecutor of his office! The public prosecutor must resolve functions in accordance with the law if those reasons laid down by law are determined. I don't think that conscience will be peaceful to those who have proposed this, unless in the first next election, the deputy public prosecutors will correct this injustice to the people who are now left on white bread, unless they return to work, who have done it fairly for 10, 15 or 20 years, or until it's said openly, what is the reason and why they remain out of work this time, and that reason must be prescribed by law. I'll hang up now, I'll stay for four minutes in case I need it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4472	Anyone else want a word? On behalf of the promoter, the word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4473	I'm sorry to take your time, but I'm really uncomfortable surprised by this previous discussion. I thought there was a choice on the agenda of the D.A.'s office. Some completely unargumented political views have been expressed here, and I don't think they are correct even in this ministry or according to the agenda under which it is being debated today. It is said here that this is the ministry, i.e. it has been constantly dealing with human affairs. You're all here, so tell me when was the debate at all about the human rights issues in the judiciary until today? Until today we have brought 19 drafts (proposal) of the law, one section passed through the Assembly, two remaining, and we will get a full legal area related to the Ministry of Justice. It's the first time you've ever done this. It is indeed incorrect to say that it is exported without criteria. For the first time, the High Council, so the competent authority discussed and tabled a proposal. You have a chance to discuss it. In the previous period, you didn't even know when it was proposed and the deputies were cleared, let alone talk about some criteria, because it proposed my predecessor, and it resolved the government. Here they're incorrectly talking about some coming, and they weren't, and some are leaving, and there they are. In most cases, what I was saying happened here, one number set in such a way, without any criteria, by the executive authority couldn't even report to the competition anymore, because it didn't meet the legal requirements, and by them it was chosen. The other thing that matters here, most of those who come back, and they say they come from the side, are people who are so without criteria driven away. Therefore, please make sure that in a certain way we remove one injustice and an unlawfully formed body that worked and acted as it should not under the Constitution. It's my request to stick to at least what's being discussed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4474	Anyone else want a word? Replica, please, as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4475	I would only briefly intervene in the capacity of the chairman of the Committee on Justice and the State Administration to present a distinguished colleague Markovic on certain things that, in my humble court, simply do not stand. The Justice Committee can work, and there's no other way it can work, except within the frameworks given by the law. I believe you all know better than anyone who has better and worse looked after this assembly that, compared to the previous old way of electing public prosecutors, there have been significant changes. It is now exclusive and only rules out jurisdiction to make a proposal for the election of public prosecutors at the High Council of Justice. The only thing the congregation can do is choose them or not to choose them. The fact is even that our Rules of Procedure, already out of date, in its Article 49, which regulates the jurisdiction of the Justice and Administration Committee, is talking about the establishment of a proposal for the selection of judicial or public prosecutorial functions and so on, by giving an opinion on proposals for the selection of prosecutors by the Republic Public Prosecutor. These are all outdated provisions relating to the previous old laws that regulated this matter. In the nature of things, this was practically the first time the Justice Committee has decided in this way on the proposals it has made, I repeat, the High Council of Justice. They didn't come from politics at all. This is, by the way, significant progress compared to the previous and old situation in 2003, created by those changes to the prosecutor's law, and I believe that everyone remembers well when the government appointed prosecutors. I'm undermining, Government, not even the Republic Prosecutor, but the Government. We have done a very significant one, I would say, democratic step forward, and that is to form, conditionally speaking, an expert body, such as the High Council of Justice, in which it was tried to create a balance between political requirements, but also professional requirements in setting up and creating a proposal for the role of public prosecutors in which the shift in that balance would have a professional function at the expense of political. There are very few political representatives in this High Council of Justice, only a minister, and the rest are all men from the profession. In the same way, the draft law has reduced the role of the National Assembly to a certain extent, with it solely being able to choose or not to choose a specific proposal for a public prosecutor. This is significant progress compared to the previous solution. Against such a legal solution, the Committee can only work. It is perfectly natural that in some old council meetings, the Justice Committee received complete résumés when the Committee set up a proposal. The board initially pleaded on people who applied to the prosecutor's competition, and it's normal to get all his biography, get all the information on him. Now the proposal forms the High Council of Justice and all these criteria are reflected on the body. He says visiting counterpart Markovic says that this number of remarks says the High Council of Justice has been working badly. I'd say, so many complaints that appear in the Assembly speaking vice versa, the High Council of Justice was doing well. He worked without political interference, precisely because there is no political interference in him, so all those who would like to achieve some political interference used the only remaining place they had, which is this assembly. So now they try and react in this congregation, trying to break that particular balance. The law allows this balance to be violated. So we in the congregation have this, and I believe that no one disputes to choose or...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4476	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4477	I'll finish. What I'm saying is, it's not true that on this board anyone was hiding any papers and that someone was hiding anyone's biographies and that on this board anyone was trying to stop or not stop, pushing anyone who didn't deserve to be a prosecutor. Against the highly reduced roles of the Justice Committee in relation to its previous functions, it remained its extremely small role, which is to say that in terms of the proposal that someone else, a completely different body, has formed nothing more than that. It's far less than what the Committee used to do when it set up proposals, but it's still more than what it was in 2003 when the government appointed prosecutors. You can imagine the criteria these prosecutors were set in 2003 when only the government was setting them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4478	Here you go, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. (Milan Markovic: Replica. No, I'm sorry, you've caused a replica, and that concludes the answer to your challenging replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate so far has made me more and more convinced that in the last 14 days, I have attended an interesting scene that Tomislav Nikolic has appeared on the battlefield between DS and DSS and has turned the tubes on Tomislav Nikolic. I've been through this battlefield intact, and you'll see, and many of you have seen it, and here you go again where you left off. Wasn't it enough that what happened on Sunday to realize that it had to be done differently in this congregation and that they were gone. You accuse each other of lack of democracy, and this law shows what awaits Serbia if one democratic party exercises power or another. You're at war with over a thousand people who perform their duties today in the country. As he dares whom and who comes to mind, he endangers the existence of thousands of people through a law that can push through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm listening to complaints about what will happen after this election of prosecutors and deputies. It's true, but it all happened only a year ago. At that time, another democratic option annulled all elections so that it would elect its prosecutors and deputy prosecutors. Today the new democratic option cancels the 2003 election, everyone is out of a job, and then you decide who gets the job and who doesn't. Where are the mandates these people were elected to? The one who applied for the prosecutor, did he know that by means of a rough majority in the Assembly, you would suspend his mandate and that again some new congregation majority would decide whether he could perform his duties or not. What democracy is there? What democracy there is if a man does not know at least the minimum he is elected to, whether he manages to maintain or not, regardless of the assembly's composition. Don't convince me that the assembly majority depends on who's going to be the prosecutor, who's going to be the judge. Doesn't that depend on the quality, on the expertise, on the preparedness, on his biography of the work he attaches when he competes. We've been waiting all day for you to make a deal. You form party cells in the prosecution. You are satisfying the interests of those political parties who will vote for these elections today. What can Serbia have? What's good about that? It hasn't been a day of love, and the first session, it shows, in fact, how different you are and how important one choice was for you, and then it goes on as usual. And now I'm asking you, what cheek are we holding here today? On Friday night, there was a brutal vandal attack on a New Sad citizen in Temerin. He's a Serb. The attack was carried out by five men from Temerin. They're Hungarians. They left graphite - hold on to Hungarians, Hungary is our only country. He's fighting for his life in a New Sad hospital. His injury is personal. The injury of Djordj Martinovic, which has happened, and some of you have not yet been born, in Kosovo and Metohija, has been a prelude to the evil that has subsequently developed in Kosovo and Metohija. Who stopped the information on Saturday, Sunday, until Monday night. What prosecutor didn't react, what deputy prosecutor didn't react? Who ordered that the public in Serbia do not know on Saturday or Sunday - is it the minister, is the Prime Minister, who ordered it, the president of the assembly? Who keeps us in the bliss of ignorance for three days, does it make anyone more concerned about security in Serbia than its citizens? Nine million, how many citizens of Serbia are there, had to know that morning what happened! I don't give anyone the right to have a right to know information from other people. If you mean running the country, free laws, free elections and re-elections, because it's getting thinner. Ever since you came to power, you've taken down the judge's furniture, one set of prosecutors and a deputy. Now you've taken down the second set of furniture and judges and prosecutors and deputies. Do you think Serbia has so many quality people? Look what it says in these lists, two years ago passed a judicial exam. The board said it still doesn't matter what month, we're not going to be celibating that he has to have two years of internships. That's the problem we're facing. You've continued your manners to give new power to the old government. And you don't know that one day you should be one authority. Otherwise, the wind blows, if you do not hold fast, all of you who call yourselves Democrats will leave, you will not enter Parliament either. I guess you get that now, after all. This time again, the world has given you support, scared the citizens of Serbia - if you don't win, the evil will be! And when there's evil now that you've won and nothing good happens, then we'll scare the citizens of Serbia later. This is not an emergency session agenda theme. Because all those people doing the job can still do it. The law was passed to punish the people set up by the Democratic Party. And if you are defeated in the extraordinary parliamentary elections this year, I should wait for the Democratic Party's law to punish the people you've appointed. And Serbia will only revolve around who wins and who sets up its own people. That's why the prosecutors you're setting don't touch your people, and the prosecutors you're going to ask won't touch your people. That's why criminals are funding each other now, so they can be calm when you're setting up and when they're setting these people up. That's the whole point in Serbia. But if I were you, I wouldn't play with this anymore. These election results show you what you can't play with anymore. With the patience of Serbian citizens, you must no longer play. Because when he's 15 on one, and none of those 15 feel like a winner, except Boris Tadic, whom I congratulate for the President of the Republic, and everyone else suffers from what happened with their support, then, obviously, it's political, it doesn't say anything good. As far as we're concerned, we're going to point out the wrongs of the proposal. We shall call names upon people who do not deserve to perform their duties. We will not vote in principle or when there is a vote on the disputed candidates, and if you create a majority - rule, if you do not create a proposal for the disbanding of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4480	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4481	I think I just had the right to a replica, but it doesn't matter. It would have been better if I had the right to a replica, because it would have cleared some of the misunderstandings. So the Democratic Party's parliamentary club -- Boris Tadic is the opposition in this parliament, and that many have supported Boris Tadic's candidacy in the presidential elections is not the reason why this parliamentary club does not say what it thinks about acts that come on the agenda. It's just like that. So here we are expressing what we think it is, and in order not to be misread by people from other parties, I have to explain what I was thinking. So when I said about the Justice Committee, it's one principle thing, because I was a member of that committee in the previous term and I repeat again -- it's no shame, it's no violation of the law, it's no big deal if the Justice Committee gets a little more information about candidates who go to elections. So there's nothing wrong with that, if we get an example. a copy of their application. Why is it bad if we get a copy of their application? What law violates the fact that we get a copy of the application? Either now we need to think about the Justice Committee for how long someone's been an intern, or when he passed this or that, or why he studied for ten years. Let's see, it can say. Why would they sit on the board with three lists of arguments about a man who's elected. That's what this is about. It doesn't matter who makes most of that committee. The important thing is that it becomes a way of working, and I want us to do it that way. There would be a lot less problems in the Assembly, and there would be no need for us to re-negotiate on this proposal of the High Council of Justice in an adequate way and to process it better. As far as my impression is concerned, he is, and I said that the Justice Department could have done a lot more work on our justice. There can be no argument for the current work of the Ministry of Justice or the poor results of the work of the current ministry what the Ministry of Justice did in some previous ministry. I don't agree with many of the things that have been done either, but I must remind you - the DS MP group - Boris Tadic supported all the changes, especially those mentioned by counterpart Ristivojevic, which concerns the election of public prosecutors. We went even one step further. Our proposal is that the holders of the judicial functions have free, democratic elections within their profession, and when someone says - I want to be the President of the Supreme Court, go ahead and run, so within your profession, those who know you best in the secret elections decide whether you are or are not the President of the Supreme Court. I'm sure in Serbia in a year or two, or five or ten, that's how they're going to choose. It's the court's trend in countries where there's such a highly positioned independent judiciary. This independent judiciary must have democratic procedures within it and the Democratic Party stands for it, because it is not new now. What some are leaving now, and some are coming, I say it's true what I said and don't say that I said something that isn't true. As it is true that 90% or 80% of this proposal is correct and consistent and we understood it, so I say there are 20% of those who are not good proposals. But I didn't criticize the ministers. There's no need for someone here to be a High Council of Justice lawyer unless there's some special interest in being a High Council lawyer. As for the influence of politics, let's not forget how all this went. First, it was brought here by the majority of votes of the Law, which was replaced by the Presidents of the Court. The President of the Supreme Court, who is President of the High Council of Justice, has been replaced against the constitutional and against the law. There's politics in what to lie about and say there isn't. I repeat, Dolovac Zagorka, Jovičić Slobodan, deputy attorney general in Novi Sad, are people who stay on white bread, are out of business. Don't say that's not true. They've got deputies who have jobs, they've got bread, they've got a family to feed, they come from the D.A.'s office that's 50 kilometers away, that's what this is about. There's no story of emotion here, like this, or anything like that. Everyone fights for their ideas. We believe this is a very important national issue, the state issue -- how public prosecutors will be elected. That's what this is about. So the work of the High Council of Justice will be getting better and better, that's for sure. The problems in the judiciary we confess, the ones that were. If there were no mistakes in the previous period, the government would now be in power, and therefore there is democracy, changing who is bad, not being there anymore, fixing, changing governments and always getting better. We don't have any dilemma here. But we're sorry that for this time, for which you had the chance to be better, you weren't, and the state wasn't making any progress. And one more thing -- I didn't say anyone was hiding any paper in the High Council of Justice. I'm just saying that the position of the High Council of Justice must be stronger, with more dignity, with more respect for us who are members of that committee. It's stupid of us to raise our hand and vote on something that we get three lines of reasoning about. It's just like that. Everyone here agrees, Deputy President, all members of the Justice Committee. That's what I'm saying for us, not for what I don't know. It'll be better work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4482	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, replica first.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4483	Dear colleague, Mr. Markovic, I would only like to compare the time when you had the opportunity to create opportunities in the judiciary, let's say in 2003: for the Republic Prosecutor, you appointed a man who did not meet even the elemental condition that he had sufficient years of working experience. Well, then you changed the law to bring it into line with his age; for the President of the Supreme Court you appointed Mrs. Brkic, who has not tried a day in the district court in her life, and has become the head of the district court even though she was one of the central judges in the municipal court in Novi Sad. She was more sick than judgmental. And, then, hop for the President of the District Court, then hop for the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Well, I guess she must first be elected judge of the Serbian Supreme Court to be president. It's a condition from the time you had the chance to influence and create opportunities in the judiciary. The situation we have now is that these people don't choose that way. If nothing, and at least they meet the basic conditions, and at least they come from the waist. A man who wasn't a prosecutor was appointed as a Republican prosecutor. He was a police officer. So I compare this time and the time before. The current way of working in the judiciary is exceptional progress in this regard. It's not ideal. In 10 years, it'll probably get better, but there's got to be significant progress compared to what you've managed to create. My question is, if you say it wasn't good for this speaker, why didn't you say it wasn't good in 2003, why now?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4484	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4485	I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure. There's got to be some truth to tell, and there's one thing I have to say. First, whether I was in favour or against something, you just don't know, you weren't in the Assembly then, or you were in the work of the Justice and Administration Committee, and it's not worth talking about. The second thing, the 18-party coalition did the previous government. It is not right for the Democratic Party to respect certain things that have nothing to do with the Democratic Party. So, the Ministry of Justice didn't hold the Democratic Party, the Ministry of Health didn't hold the Democratic Party, held the G17 plus, not to count. So it is the essence of moving forward. I agree, the provisions of the law have been amended, and we all agree on the public prosecutor's office to move forward. But it was a step back that we'd executed the President of the Court by law. It was a step back, as I think a step back is what's happening now. The High Judicial Council is likely to gain strength and will work better year after year. We all hope so, and we'll do it better. There's no need for us to go back to the old days and remind each other of what anyone was doing back then, because I think we'd open up an awful ugly story. We should turn to the future and think about how we're going to do it in the future. The critics are on this, they weren't so direct to you. I don't know why you're defending the High Council of Justice. The criticisms are in the way that this time led to a proposal like this. Let's move on, we'll all try to get better together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4486	The word is by MP Veroljub Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4487	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal from the High Council for Justice on the selection of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. For each of these places, more people competed, as many as a dozen people, and based on some criteria, the High Council for Justice gave its proposals. So it's not an observation, at least it seems to me that someone was doing it on a party basis. But what criteria do we have to ask ourselves? It is, I suppose, expertise, I suppose some result in the work, but it seems to me that for each of these people we need to ask a question, that's for us, and when I tell us, I mean the SPO-NS Parliament Club, are these people, each individual, worthy of these functions? In my opinion, that would have to be the first criterion. Probably not all of them. That's why we had the Committee, which is why we have objections from the Committee, which is why today we have objections, individual MPs and parliamentary groups. So are they worthy of functions? Since we have objections as a Parliament club, I ask if it's worthy of function for someone who, in the case of the "bar highway", after the testimony of Michael Curtis and all the evidence that exists, does not press charges against Michael Curtis, against the Legion and the others. The answer is – it is not worthy of function! That someone's name is Milun Dragutinovic. We can't possibly be in favor of him being elected Deputy Attorney General. So it's a concrete remark. I ask further – is it a worthy function of someone who was held in prison several years ago, without any legal basis, by the president of the SPO and his wife for more than 45 days? That someone's name is Happy Man. The answer is ours, and I hope everyone here is not worthy of function. So I ask you to look at things like this, to vote like this, and I ask that, in addition to the other names that we will probably hear, these two names that we will individually vote on, and I am convinced that we will not allow them to perform these functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4488	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SPO-NS, SRS, DS and DSS. I give my word to the MP Sanja Cekovic, and let the MP of the people, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4489	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill on selecting prosecutors, which has proposals that SCI and NS cannot support, names that have proved to be bad for the past 13 years, the names of people who have shown that as prosecutors have been embodied and that during their exercise of power they have done so in a way that they should not perform a person who performs such an important function. The SPO and NS will not support Mr. Veselin Mrdak's choice, because we believe that in 1993 the man who showed all the worst in the performance of that function, which in 1993, by order of the then Milosevic regime, harassed 45 days in the prison of the president and his wife, does not deserve not our vote, but deserves a great condemnation of both us and the entire Serbian public. The SPO, thanks to the poor judiciary, has gone through a difficult period and we do not want it to happen to us or to all of you who are involved in politics in Serbia. For all of this, I appeal to you – let us go the right way, let us choose for prosecutors the people who deserve it, the people who will proudly bear this function and the people who will not have party acuity in themselves. So SPO and NS will vote against the election of Veselin Mrdak.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4490	The word has the People's MP Snježana Lakicevic- Stojačić; when we get the list, we move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, according to us, the High Council at its session on 21 June of this year, which was scheduled to discuss candidates and propose them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, proposed a person for the choice of office of prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, acted contrary to the Law on the High Council of Justice and its own Rules of Procedure, in such a way that it harshly violated and violated the rights of individual candidates for the holders of these important prosecutorial functions. What's this about? The High Council voted at a session without debate on a draft decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. The meeting began by delivering to the members of the Council an upfront texting list on which it was written in the title - a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, leaving an empty space to enter a date for holding a session of the National Assembly and thus verifying the advance decision on the selection of candidates for these important functions of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. It also ignored the prosecutor's position on what candidates should propose. It was, unfortunately, run by some of our other unknown criteria. There have been obvious gaps, failures that must in any case deserve our attention and which we believe we should also meet the MPs of the National Assembly, but also the public of the Republic of Serbia. Some people, who have been responsible for their duties for many years, or have been deputy public prosecutors, have been resolved in this way. It's not about a concrete solution, it's simply about not naming them as deputy public prosecutors without any explanation. The High Council had no insight into their résumés, no discussion of their names, and other people were elected in their places who, in our opinion, do not deserve to be elected to these functions. We have concrete and most dramatic examples of violations concerning Vojvodina in the Novi Sad District Court where two ladies who have worked in the District Prosecutor's Office have not been selected for more than 20 years, which are: Slobodanka Jovičić and Zagorka Dolovac. In their place, people who are already serving as deputy district attorney in Somboro are proposed. We don't dispute their quality, but we find it completely irresponsible for women who have spent their entire working life in the district attorney's office to lose their jobs. Then you have a recommendation -- don't wave, in September, if you're good, there'll be a re-election of public prosecutors, so you have a chance that maybe in some other ad hoc booze someone will suggest you and you'll be re-elected. Of course there's no guarantee and that's not an explanation anyone, who's responsible for perfecting the work that's done, can agree. Of course we have an objection to that. Similarly, Stanko Vujic's candidacy, the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor and also his biography and expertise were not accepted. Drazen Kendrasic, also deputy municipal public prosecutor in Novi Sad, although it is also a re-election, has not passed and has not been discussed at the session. This way of working at the High Council of Justice has produced the fact that Serbian Attorney-General Vladimir Seseljija did not take part in the vote on the draft decision on the election of prosecutors. His stance was supported by the Vojvodina Bar Association, which addressed the public and made very decident remarks on the speedy decision and the adoption of a decision on proposals for the appointment of public prosecutors and their deputies at the last session of the Supreme Council of Justice on 21 June, noting that the lists were prepared in advance and as such directly presented to the MPs of the Republic of Serbia. In a statement by the Vojvodina Bar, a shadow of the Council's independence is said to be cast into the influence of the executive authority and defused the meaning of the Constitutional Court's decision and the latest amendments to the law in the area of justice. In this way, it is believed that the 'legalistic' pressure of the executive authority on the judiciary is being put on hold, as certain candidates are told that if they are good, they have a chance of being re-elected within the next deadline. Then the draft candidate for the election of the Republic Prosecutor and Deputy District and Municipal Prosecutors arrives before the Assembly Committee and something is happening again on the Committee, which is completely unusual. First of all, the Justice Committee was scheduled for Friday at 4:00 p.m. for individual MPs from the Democratic Party list - Boris Tadic at 13.00 p.m. to receive notice that the Justice Committee starts work at 13.00 p.m. Of course, some of them could not attend, and of course they could not make their remarks or meet the members of the Committee with the observations they wanted to make. Afterwards, we receive a report from the Committee that challenges some people who we feel are without reason disputed and we receive a comment from the Committee on certain solutions to the Supreme Council of Justice, and yet again are challenged by people who have tremendous experience and an extremely serious and successful career in the places where they have worked so far. The largest number is re-election, and some of them rightly claim to be elected to these important functions. I sincerely hope that in some joint efforts, this very important area, which is necessary for Serbia, we will be able to separate the executive power from the judicial authority. It's necessary for all the reasons we all swear. This kind of choice of judges and this kind of work of the High Council of Justice can't convince any of us to go the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4492	Here's a replica of the president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4493	Just a short replica to an esteemed colleague. What's interesting is that I could step up here in the Rules of Procedure, advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is that a distinguished colleague hurt the dignity of this assembly by insulting me, by giving a lie to this speaker. The Justice and Administration Committee was first scheduled on Friday, and then, on a proposal from most members, it was postponed for Monday, and among other things, by members of the Democratic Party, i.e. from your parliamentary club and on the spot, it was agreed on when and how many hours the Committee would be moved, so we started with 18.00, with 17.00, with 16.00, with 15.00, with 14.00 hours at the end, and the Committee really started at 13.15 on Monday, with 15 minutes of academic delay, to give anyone who was eventually late and worked until 16.30 hours. Whoever wanted to come could have been properly informed. Of the three members of the Committee representing the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, two did not come on Friday. It is probably a way to tell us what they really think about the work of the Committee, about the Committee itself, and perhaps about the work of this congregation when such an important session does not appear at all. I'm going in tons. The board is open to anyone, even those who are not members of the Committee, anyone can come. He's transparent, as they say, open, public, and anyone can come, work, say what he has. So, here I strongly reject such an idea that the time of the Committee's appointment was secret, that anyone had been deceived about it. On a proposal from most members, the committee decided to move on Monday and on the spot for time. The secretary didn't call anyone in particular to report that time. Everyone was on site informed of the weather. Only those who weren't there were invited.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4494	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4495	I just want to tell you that I'm really impressed by the ease of using untruths in this assembly. There was a meeting of the High Council and there was no such thing as my influence. I 90% of the people here don't even know and talk about a proposal, that's what it is after the decision was made technically to send to the Assembly. But I admire those who can bring lies without blushing. I have to tell you, I can bring it to you if you need tons of material that's been considered and completely by different lists, with all the biographies, so you'll see for yourself that it's completely untrue, but there's one thing that seems to be bothering a certain group. A certain number of lawyers from Novi Sad obviously have a problem that comes to a change in the prosecution. I think that came out now. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4496	Here you are, MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4497	I thank the chairman. The Secretary of the Assembly Committee shall have the obligation to notify telephone members of the committee who have not attended the session when its stay is agreed and the session is scheduled for another day. So, if something oral is agreed, then it is not understood that those MPs who did not attend board meetings will know it by themselves. Someone has to tell them and the secretary of the board is serving, so the provisions on calling for meetings and timely notice of MPs have been violated. I made a mistake, from Friday to Monday, I've been permuting my days. On Monday, it was scheduled for four, as you yourself said at one o'clock, with our MPs informed at 13.15 p.m. As for what Mr. Minister just said, it is not about the position of a few of the lawyers from Novi Sad, but as I have pointed out very precisely – on the decision of the Vojvodina Bar Association, which is much more important, a very serious institution, and it is also about the support of the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers, the position held at the Council of Justice session by the president of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. So both chambers of attorney, both Vojvodina and Serbia, made the same remarks and took a common position on the one – how decisions were made and how they are discussed at the High Council of Justice session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4498	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4499	This time I won't spare you like I did last time. I'm going out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. She's not talking to a colleague with all due respect to me as an MP here, but also as a member of the board. He's lying, it's not true - in one Mr. Markovic was informed of the session neatly, and why he didn't come Monday, I don't know! We sat together, we postponed by six, by five, by four, by three, by two and finally we agreed that at 13.00 we could postpone the session on Monday. Why are you saying that someone falsely informed him that the session is at four, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4500	Here you are, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4501	At no time did I tell any MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that he is lying and certain that when I speak for this assembly, I will never tell anyone. I just transmitted the facts I learned from fellow Members of the Justice Committee. Please say what you have to say about the pay phone. I trusted (trusted) and trusted MPs from the DS list – Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4502	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4503	The Justice Committee ended up in a very bad atmosphere, which unfortunately became a practice on the Justice Committee. What we agreed then, and what you say is not true, what we heard, is a sequel Monday at 4:00. After I asked Mr. Vukkovic, he did get the notice, let's say he wasn't on the board. The board agreed to be at 1400 hours. They're all up, they're on their way. You had a little duel with Mr. Ristic, you didn't respect him, either as a colleague or as an MP. After that, Mr. Ristic and I went out. Did you set up for 1:00 after that, I don't know. Apparently someone reported that at 13.00 hours, because it was reported to Mr. Vukkovic, he left at 13.00 hours. At 1:30, I got a phone call from the Committee at 13.00, and I was on my way to the Committee at 4:00. This is what's true on our side. That's how it turned out. It's just proof that it would be better if committees were led in a better atmosphere. It's not Mrs. Lakicevic's fault. Unfortunately, our last committee ended in an unfavorable discussion. It doesn't matter who's responsible. There's probably been some misinformation. I know it was a question – whether it could be 1600 hours and whether it would be over by the end. After that, we went out. It doesn't matter. I don't know why we got to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4504	Please don't mention names. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4505	The debate was conducted neatly on Friday, we were all sitting on the board. I first suggested six o'clock in the afternoon that there'd be enough time, one said it couldn't because there's a Security Committee, the other has this board, we've been downgraded by five, four, three, two, and we've finally found one. It all lasted half a minute. You will now – no, you will not – no, you will at four – I will not, at the end of one. I didn't object to you. I objected to my colleague, Lakicevic-Stojacic, who earlier said that she did not know the circumstances, but convinced what the other said. And he doesn't know what's going on. That's why I told her to tell the truth, not to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4506	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Davidovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4507	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, I assume that, Ho Hkada, the High Council of Justice, has proposed that the Deputy Prosecutors be managed by professional, moral, human qualities. However, I personally believe that when it comes to the proposal that came from Jagodina and when it comes to proposed candidate Slavica Atanaskovic, it could certainly have been a different choice. The reasons why I mention this is that yet someone who studied for 14 years with an average score of 6.35, with a working experience, in a company of seven years and with the beginning of the prosecutor's career in 45 years, is not recommended by the High Council of Justice, and it is certainly not recommended that this candidate receive support in this assembly. I am taking the opportunity to appeal to fellow MPs, that this candidate who comes before Jagodina, mentioned Mrs Slavica Atanaskovic, does not support the Assembly as deputy district attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4508	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vukic, and let the MP Slobodan Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning the MPs of the SRS, the only opposition parties in Serbia were waiting for the session of the National Assembly to begin, they arrived on time, 10.00 hours ago, it was announced – we will begin at 14.00 hours; at 14.00 hours SRS MPs were outside the hall, again nothing, we waited another hour. We waited to welcome what we had been listening to for years – fighting, arguing, lying charges, counterfeits, fiction among those who were supposed to celebrate yesterday, or the day before, I saw them on the streets of Serbia a few days ago, celebrating, and today they keep going the way they did, showing that everything we said we were absolutely right. They're right when they talk about these others and they're right when they talk about the first ones. It's the only thing that's completely certain is that it's true. As far as principles are concerned in the fight for the independence of the prosecutor's office, I'd say they're both exactly the same. There's no difference, and we don't know from this list anyone, none of them are members of the SRS, they didn't come out of our political party's computer database. It is from your parties, and all the time you were only discussing whether in Subotica, Užica, Zrenjanin, as it is, I did not accidentally state, the DS and GSS personnel remain and whether in Novi Sad two or three people from DS are changing people from DSS or not -- whether this is the debate that should be held in Serbia's highest home, in the Supreme Legislative Body, whether this is the way to talk. Some know what happened at the High Council of Justice, and some know what happened before the High Council of Justice, and we do not know. From what we've got, we can't even conclude exactly, and even evaluate, I mean these candidates. The only thing we know is that in your fights and in your debates, the only thing that mattered was, and this one once did us some evil, this one didn't do us any harm, this one did us a favor, so my criminal wasn't prosecuted. We in the SRS don't know the name of any of the prosecutors who prosecuted and put up, I mean the prison and Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic and many others and none of them have been consecrated, nor will we, because it is important for us that the prosecution be an independent state body, which, unlike the judges, is therefore not an independent state body, but is an independent state body and does not allow political parties in such a brutal way to interfere with the choice of prosecutors as they are today. Here today should be expected and expected, as I hear that the confederal parliament today discussed it, and Minister Ljajic responded to whether the Hungarians were at risk, to see how it was possible and to whom this criminal today in Serbia is thinking of putting a wooden stick in an anus of a man just because he belongs to another nation and that's a number of five people, or five of them, and it occurred to them to do one man, and they've done worse things, they've made an emergency on him. The media in Serbia kept quiet, the prosecutors and the police kept silent for two days, two days, no one was allowed to publish it - why?- I'm sorry. Because it should have been said, you must vote for Boris Tadic, it must not be said that Serbs have been threatened and that Serbs have done so, it has been silenced for two days to bring the crime to a standstill yesterday, although all the competent state authorities have been aware of it. Why don't we talk today about problems that bother Serbia, about visas that you spoke about, why Romania introduced visas yesterday, why Bulgaria will introduce visas in a few days, why today we don't talk about what you talked about that's the most important thing, about chains and locks, when you put new chains and locks on factories in Serbia, all together, Tadic, Karic, Kostunica there's no difference, you're all the regime. For one thing worry, we ourselves today had 46% against Tadic, Karic, Kostunica, all regimes, only four percent short. So, just four percent, the rain fell on you, from 25% you fell to five percent support in the electoral body and cried – don't cry, it's written to you, you disappear from the political scene, so much so you know. As for the will of the Serbian citizens, very quickly, you will see, because of the prosecutors, because of the chains and locks, and because of the salad that you are importing to Serbia today along with Karic and the katans you are putting on, so soon we will clean you all up with more than 50 percent, what you didn't even dream of, which you didn't hope for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4510	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a member of the Committee on Justice of this Assembly, but I was also a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration of that first multi-party assembly elected in 1990, which was elected by some 2,300 judges and several hundred public prosecutors in 1992. I have to say that this progress that we've been talking about here isn't any progress compared to that time, because this is a huge setback. Then we chose judges and public prosecutors for months. For months it lasted, every week we met, we had time for consultations, we had choices, we had notices, we got notices, so on. Today we are in a situation that has brought the National Assembly into a humiliating position, members of the Committee on Justice and Administration as well. Please, we have received materials on the election, or on the proposal of the High Council of Justice on Thursday, a session is scheduled Friday, against the Rules of Procedure, because according to the Rules of Procedure, a session of the board has to be scheduled five days ahead, and may be held sometime within a short period, if that is justified, and whether it was justified here, I do not know. Please, I remind you, I did a quick check, 800 candidates were here for public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. 72 candidates have been proposed, and tell me who is able to read it, let alone evaluate and collect information from Thursday to Friday when a session of the Justice Committee was scheduled. I didn't come to that committee on purpose, because I don't accept that for one day on such big issues I plead, but I came to this other committee that was scheduled for Monday, June 28th. I have to tell you, there has also been one disaster from the point of view of serious work, it's gone through in the dark, in haste, also, without certain data, and especially without the information relevant by the High Judicial Council. I have to tell you that in relation to the High Council of Justice, I personally have major objections, but not just me, but also the members of the Committee, or the High Council of Justice. I have before me a letter from Mr. Vladimir Seshlia, who is a member of the High Council of Justice as president of the Bar Association. He protested in writing to the High Judicial Council that the material was delivered to him on Friday 18 June and a session with such extensive material, with 800 candidates and with 72 candidates proposed, the session was scheduled for 21 June, so in three days. He protested, he abstained from voting, he believes that the lawyer who was represented by law in the High Council of Justice was disabled simply to carry out his post and informed the High Council of Justice and this letter informed MPs in the National Assembly, at least he informed us. With that letter, a protest by Mr. Seseljija, as president of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers, also agreed in all respects to the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers, whose letter I also have. So, these 800 candidates and 72 proposed candidates best say that nothing can be solved within one day, as was scheduled for a session Thursday on Friday, and then delayed Friday so that members of the Justice Committee could collect certain notices during the weekend. Unseriousness and progress are no relation to the former work of this National Assembly. Reports delivered to the Justice Committee in the High Council of Justice Assembly, except that there are shortages from this point of view that certain members of the High Council of Justice cannot at all take part in and refuse to take part in the work of the Council, such as Mr Seshlija, are very dubious, very short and contain, you have all these biographies, a few shrewd sentences, incomplete, who was born, when he graduated, where he worked, there are no grades, in any report on the working qualities of the proposed candidates, let alone the moral assessments of certain candidates. During the session of the Justice Committee, we heard that some were proposed by the High Council of Justice under prosecution, that criminal charges were brought against them. I guess at least that's the kind of information we could get for individual candidates. Why did it take all this to be done in an emergency procedure? Why is this an emergency in two three days? We don't see any need for this, and especially what it is before summer, regardless of these deadlines, because we could extend the deadlines, and we could carefully consider and agree, as we are now agreeing, so this session is also late, fundamentally and seriously on all candidates. If we had one higher dose of responsibility, I think the National Assembly should reject all proposed candidates as a protest and ask for another deadline and set a second deadline for me to declare this in the fall. This would be worthy of a congregation that takes care of its dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4512	The word is made by MP Branislav Ristivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4513	Today is the Justice Committee on the wallpaper, so as president, I have to replicate it again. The session of the Justice Committee was scheduled immediately after our material arrived. So, the material arrived on Thursday, Thursday morning was printed and scheduled immediately for Friday. I don't see what can be faster than that. Only that we scheduled Thursday- Friday night, so people get the material in their hands as soon as possible. By the nature of things, there is little time for someone to get acquainted with the material from Thursday to Friday, and by nature things were normal for someone to propose a stay, and with this session was scheduled on Friday that they would most likely propose a stay, but at least we saw each other and took the material into their hands. And if the session had been scheduled by Monday, then someone would have remembered on Monday that they were complaining that the mail hadn't sent him the material in time and so on. The session was scheduled just to make sure all the materials were in hand. As for which congregation was better, it was the first multiparty or this one, and at that time only political parties were setting up prosecutors, and today the body in which the excess and the maximum intrusion has a profession. I don't know what quality it is, when parties were handing out prosecution seats, Your Honor, or today when it suggests almost exclusively in the jurisdiction of a professional body. Third, as far as these memos you're waving at here, I'm very interested in why they're not addressed to this assembly, the Justice Committee, but they're directed to you and then you bring them to this pay phone. Is there some secret connection between that Mr. Seshlia and you or that gentleman from the Vojvodina Bar and you when only you have those memos, and we don't all have here and we can't discuss them. I really can't say about it when I didn't see that paper, I didn't get it, I couldn't get it as an MP, or as a member of the Justice Committee. It's some secret documents and secret papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4514	Are you looking for a replica? I don't see that you're... All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4515	Since Mr. President of the Committee asked me for an explanation, this memo was sent to the High Council of Justice, and I only have his copy. (Branislav Ristivojevic: Why don't we? I don't know why you don't have a sir. (Branislav Ristivojevic: Where did you get it? I got it from Mr. Sashlia. You're not the High Council of Justice. (Branislav Ristivojevic: Show the paper. Why should I share? Therefore, the High Council of Justice was directed by Mr. Seseljija, the president of the Bar Association, and notes that the lawyer who, by law, is a member of the High Council of Justice cannot participate equally in the procedure. Secondly, I'd like to say, from Thursday to Friday, in fact, with 800 candidates where 72 is proposed. This is considered normal, despite the Rules of Procedure, which says that within five days, the Rules of Procedure, the truth, can be shorter in justified cases. Is this a legitimate case of this kind of problem, with a agenda like this, with so many candidates, that from today to tomorrow a session of the Justice Committee is held. That's unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4516	There's no need to waste time with this. My colleague just gave it to me and I took a look at this memo. So the 26th was the High Council of Justice for the Courts, and this letter carries a date of 25. The High Council for Courts was scheduled almost a month ago and Mr. Seshlia then asked to be held for courts, not prosecutors, because he had held five or six days earlier, asked to be postponed because he had a celebration. It's been waiting a month. He's asking for a stay the day before. This is true, but I've been working to tell you, the High Council for Prosecutors has been held earlier, so the 26th was the High Council for selecting judges. So, I don't know, because if anything was sent to the D.A., I haven't even seen it yet. It's either later, but we see that it's sweet to the Chamber of Vojvodina, or I understand that there's a deal, so it's sent in writing. I say the High Council of Prosecutors was held earlier so he could arrive for an extraordinary session. So the 26th Judges' Council was held. She had Mr. Sheshlia's request to postpone, because he had some kind of celebration. It's not accepted by most.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4517	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4518	Mr. Secretary asked for an explanation, and he didn't interpret it well. I just gave him this to look at, he didn't take a good look. I'll read that part to you, I remind you that the lists of candidates reported are candidates for the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, and please, it's about prosecutors, not judges, delivered on Friday 18.6 and the session is scheduled for Monday 21.6. So it's about the public prosecutors and it's about a deadline from Friday to Monday for the preparation and preparation of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4519	Thank you. The first word was for Mr. Vukic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ristivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4520	It's nice to see you ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, back to what you forgot on the 15th day. We cheated on the people, so let's do this again. What Mr. Nikolic and I said today, we will not give up on it. We are asking for information from both Serbia's MUP and the Minister of Justice about the crime that took place in Temerin, and I will read why we are looking. Namely, in the previous period, and regarding this topic, regarding the deputy district attorneys, Mr Miodrag Surla wrote this, according to the evidence provided, and, among other things, in the main investigation, he is making an alteration of the indictment against Ljuan and Bekim Mazreku. These are Albanian villains who have committed a number of crimes, and now you will hear which, and you will hear what happened - which took part with several gang members in the attack on the town of Orahovac in the period from 17 July to 22 July 1998, where locals Kostic Angelko and Nikolic Rajko were killed, while 43 people were kidnapped, who were first taken to Malishevo and then taken together with kidnapped persons from other places to the village of Klečka in the municipality of Lippjan, which together consisted of a group of 100 kidnapped people. I know this doesn't interest anyone, but the citizens of Serbia are interested, so I ask your attention. They were tortured first, and now listen, where Ljuan Mazreku raped a girl of Serbian nationality, between 12 and 15 years of age, and one boy about eight years of age cut off his ear, while Bekim raped more women's people of Serbian nationality, after which the two, along with 18 other gang members, committed mass shooting of tortured and massacred persons, deliberately deprived of their lives. What happened? Was the prosecutor, or the deputy prosecutor, a correct relationship? No! No! Those two villains were pardoned, both of them, by a double pardon. The pardon decision pardoned those who raped Serbian girls. So today I'm looking for information on the criminals in Temerin, to hear why and how someone thought to put a wooden stick in the anus of another man, in this country. Let's finish that story sometime. We're going to ask for that, and we're going to insist on it. I read this to you so it wouldn't occur to Boris Tadic to pardon them for voting for him. Let it not come to him or anyone else in Serbia! That's why I'm asking the minister of justice for information on who this mother's son is who stopped it for two days, not to be heard in Serbia. Who was the one who banned the media from talking about it in Serbia? Who is it that released this information only Monday, even though it happened almost three days earlier? Why is this information hidden from Serbian citizens? Who thinks that the criminals in Serbia are protecting them? That's why I'm asking you for that information, and if we don't get it in half an hour, I'm going to go out for the pay phone again to look for it, because such crimes in Serbia can't happen again. The bottle and Djordje Martinovic began and brought evil to Kosovo and Metohija. I'm afraid this isn't going to bring evil into Vojvodina. We will not allow this to anyone who is ruling, nor is the regime of Tadic, Karic and Kostunica, and anyone who will rule this country in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4521	Mr. Wolfie, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand your need to say that, but it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4522	I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4523	Please. Mr. Ristivojevic asked for a replica. He's giving up. ) The word was addressed by MP Zoran Krasic, and let Slobodan Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4524	As part of this agenda, we can only conclude that as a consequence we have received one condition caused by non-serious, wrong and misdemeanor interventions for the past four years in the area of justice. We are faced with a problem of voluntary, violent and sablja-provoked and conducted lustration in the prosecution, and widely observed in courts as well. We today have to mention Mr. Batic as an idea designer of purification in the prosecution, who was simply surprised when he found out there in 2001 -- imagine, they didn't resign, we're going to have to do something. And, of course, the interventions were under the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office since November 2001, and that continuity was present until about a month and a half ago when the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office was also amended. We've got a situation where someone because of their intricacies and inadequacy, as the law says, has to be resolved. Here, the law changed several times, so in 2003 we received a category of deputy public prosecutors, who had stopped the prosecutor's office because of a change in the law, and they had hardly received an individual legal act that in any way affected their status in the prosecution. So, one letter, one notice was quite enough, or like that municipal public prosecutor in Nis, who passes through the offices where the deputies are and says, tomorrow you no longer need to come to work, the law has changed, the transitional and final provisions are clear, the deadlines are up, you're no longer employed in the prosecution. And, now, that needs to be fixed. With this proposal by the High Council of Justice, this has been corrected in some municipal public prosecutors, as well as in district public prosecutors, but the injustice has not been corrected in most municipal public prosecutors, where people have been moved even though they have 10 to 15 years of experience and experience in prosecution affairs in the prosecutor's office. This is the first problem likely faced by the High Council of Justice. Some, now lawyers, and former deputies, are angry because they competed for every place for 15 and 60 candidates, with a wave of people who were expelled in 2002 and 2003. They were promised from this pay phone that they would have a mild priority over other candidates, but the High Council of Justice obviously did not appreciate it. The other problem is the procedure. The election procedure, widely observed, from the day the competition was announced to practically today's session. I fully agree with those MPs who pointed out that we at the Committee session did not have the opportunity to carry out complete insight, but I must also say that the jurisdiction of the Assembly is as a matter of principle - take it or leave it. The official promoter is only the High Council of Justice, and the Assembly may vote or possibly challenge the choice of one of the proposed candidates from this speaker, so that there is a special vote on it. The Justice Committee also moved in that area. If you look at these proposals, you will see that nepotism is also present in at least four cases. For two candidates, I have to say that the Justice Committee has responded and that it has almost uniquely challenged the choice of those two candidates. The other two candidates, unfortunately, remained on the list. I've singled out my opinion and I'm going to use today's debate to challenge their choice, because in some of the prosecutions we practically have a closed judicial circle. A close relative in the district court, others in municipal, relatives in the district and municipal public prosecutor's office, and if that is the case, the experts, the branch of the government, in the image of these judges and that public prosecutor, are more like a family than something that is related to the law and something that should represent a state that guarantees political equality and equality for all citizens before the Constitution and before the law. That's how a judicial monopoly is formed. The result of that judicial monopoly is the fact that in this list for several municipal public prosecutors we have a situation that only one candidate has applied. It's a fake painting. Why the fake picture? There are many more interested, but someone has mildly advised them – do not compete, there will be elected one who is still in the D.A., so we have happened to appear in several places, as proposed candidates for the election, people who can at least be said to be without general health skills to establish a working relationship, taking into account the specificity of the prosecutor's office. In several places, the Committee accepted my suggestion and one or two candidates were challenged, but there are more. What should we today, as MPs, be concerned about, taking into account the amended Public Prosecutor's Law? That means the High Council of Justice is proposing, and we're choosing, so we pick someone and we don't choose someone. If we go from one criterion - that each of us, if by any chance enters a court or some prosecutor's office, should not experience the inconvenience that prosecutors, judges, dactylographs, those who run the register, call and say - I followed the transfer, I heard that the deputy district attorney or district attorney was elected, you chose a man who is neither distinguished by expertise nor worthy to perform that function. So that we don't experience it, we probably all have, if anything, then at least a moral obligation to ask ourselves who they are, who they're supposed to choose as prosecutors. Anyone who showed minimal interest would get a very good answer in the prosecution and the court – who can and who can not. It's usually said -- what kind of voice beats some expert associate, whether in court, whether in the prosecution, if there's already an existing deputy prosecutor. So, nothing complicated, just talking to people who are a little bit in the area. When it is seen, the results are as follows: the fifth municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade -- candidate Lopusina Dragan was proposed. His expertise doesn't devalue him, but he has a big dignity problem, if he could do the job. Furthermore, the municipal public prosecutor's office in Lazarevec – Gajic Milorad. Not to draw a list of sins that are placed on that man -- he comes from Lykovec, he's known for many cases and not to order further, because I want to protect that function. Probably in Bolovac, because he was the only candidate, you suggested Prvulović Nebojsa, but only because he was the only one. If it's about the waist, believe me, you could've found a better one. Should I mention Bigovic Milan from Kosovo Mitrovica? As far as radicals are concerned, there's always a troublesome candidate. Should Jovanovic Dragan, a candidate for municipal public prosecutor at the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, be mentioned? The only quality in terms of profession and dignity is family relations with one politician, and goes as a judicial associate as a municipal public prosecutor. Furthermore, candidate Stojanovic Desimir was challenged in Majdanpek, although he was the only one. It is good that the High Council of Justice has accepted our objections to withdraw all proposals concerning the District and Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje. It's a good thing the Justice Committee accepted our intervention and did the same thing when it comes to the election of the district attorney in Subotica and the municipal public prosecutor in Subotica. I think it was a unanimous decision during the vote. If we look at this second decision to elect public prosecutors' deputies, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has proposed that Djordz Ostojic be deputy prosecutor. If nothing else, at least he'll be remembered for it when he was the Republic Public Prosecutor, 12,000 have been arrested. From that number, I don't know if there's 40 against which the procedure is being conducted. Think about how you will compensate for damages, and those who have been arrested illegally, who have been held in custody for 20, 30, and who knows how many days, and I know in one case – 105 days. How is that going to be charged? Among the candidates for the vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor is Dragutinovic Milun. He's got a dignity problem. If you look at the proposal for the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, when it comes to deputies, then almost everyone else who has run better than these three you've proposed for the election, both in terms of the profession, and in terms of professional courage to step up and prosecute where it's dangerous. I don't know what criterion Zorica Zecevic met when she was proposed, when almost all the candidates who fell for several spears meet all the conditions and represent quality compared to the proposed candidate. It is similar with the Fourth Public Prosecutor's Office, where you suggested Nikolic Aleksandra, whose choice, of course, we dispute. As far as the Fifth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade is concerned, almost all the candidates who applied are better than the two you proposed: Dvornik-Michajlović Ivana and Koledin Zorana. The fact that someone has made a career in the prosecution since 2003, from able, and came from some agricultural cooperative or lawyer's office of their father or a friend, it's a political problem for those who weigh down individual candidates. But if you look at the law and what conditions the candidate needs to meet, then I need to draw attention to you to look at the biographies of individual candidates. Half of them have been missing for four years and a month's work experience, which is a necessary condition to elect a deputy municipal public prosecutor. There are no biographies when he passed a judicial exam, or how much work he has at all. It is a good thing that those who have been expelled return to Valyev. It is not good that you proposed Naumović Trajko as deputy municipal public prosecutor in Presevo, because he, under the burden of a large number of criminal charges, knew where to join and make a prosecutor's career. Radicals won't support it, because there's no profession, no dignity. Zaječar – Marković Ivan. He joined one of your parties a few months ago, and that's a guarantee of his profession. His second guarantee is that the Markovics are holding the judiciary. As for Jagodina, Tanaskovic Slavica is a proposed candidate and for her radicals will not vote for one simple reason she does not deserve, and she is now in one two in the prosecution. I don't open up the issue of municipal prosecutors like Firefighters and not order any further, where some people have taken the prosecution as their firm. One of these examples is definitely Jagodina. If we move forward then the Kragujevci know best why radicals would not vote for Jeftic Maria, who was proposed as the deputy municipal public prosecutor in Kragujevac, and these MPs from Kragujevac, too. The prosecutor may have his own political stance, but it is not good if he is scarred, tied up, and if party membership and political sympathies drive him to subdue the prosecutor's office to political interests. It's probably a good example for Nis to point out what the Democratic Party has undoed there. So they suggested Milovanovic to Radmila. He is a lawyer, but he has better candidates. For Deputy Public Prosecutor Pavlovic Natasa, she became an expert because she joined a party, and Cirkovic Dragana is totally unknown about the Niš prosecutor's office. There are a lot of candidates there who have applied, who have been wiped out by the Democratic Party's innovations when it comes to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. When it comes to Nis, as well as the Sabbath judiciary, that's where the books are written. As for Novi Sad and the deputy in the district public prosecutor's office, Gvojic Zeljko would probably not meet the conditions prescribed by the law. It is similar with the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, where candidate Atanakovic Jovanka was proposed, and to remind you that you proposed to Savik Nikola as deputy district attorney in Piroth, who, in order not to officially dismiss him, left the prosecution, resigned as a lawyer after several years, became close to some and became an official candidate of the High Council of Justice. Radicals will not vote for him, nor will Lazovic Branislav, who was proposed as deputy district attorney in Smederev. He became a candidate because he supported, helped, and boasted that he was a member of a new party that formed. As for the proposed candidate for deputy district attorney in Stari Pazova, you proposed Neskovic Slobodanko. It is the proposal by Slobodan Milosevic, not the one from The Hague, but the Supreme Court judges, one of ten of his proposals. She was the deputy secretary of the Electoral Commission, she showed up. He's working on some criminal cases against the head of the municipality and, of course, these objects are sleeping in a drawer. The fire is a member of one of the parties that is no longer in power, but is in the coalition and it is its only quality. In Shid, too. Fireman of a very small omb party. It's the only quality and proof of expertise. As for Subotica, biography can be a bright career, but radicals will never vote for Alexic Miljana. It's similar with one of the candidates for deputy district attorney. As far as Užica is concerned, it's all clear. Progress in career and the right to perform prosecutorial functions has been achieved thanks to who the daughter is, you should know, who in time joined the party on 5 October, who tried to seduce order in the district public prosecutor's office, so Vidakovic Zoran is not our candidate, we will not vote for him. It is similar with Radibratović Željko, and as far as the Municipality's Prosecutor's Office in Užica is concerned, we dispute Gačić Maria and Jankovic Ana. Cačak, the Cacans know who Arangelović Dragan is and since when he is making a career - which ablj, which is October 5th. You're probably familiar with the situation in Capco. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, some names were also mentioned outside the judiciary that dictated and hara and who performed a miracle in the municipal public prosecutor's office. Finally, to avoid any major confusion, today at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade is an event. If the kids sign up or take the pick-up, it's a lot of traffic. Each of them came to the Law School with great hope. Probably less than 10% of them will end up from this generation. Probably 1% of them will be able to serve as prosecutors or judges. They went to law school with great hope, they believe. In order for those kids who are enrolling today to believe in this profession they want to deal with you withdrawing these proposals, give up where we challenged this, try some order to seduce and love each other more than you fight. You're on the same side only no one has informed you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4525	The People's Messenger Slobodan Zivkucin has the word, and let the Messenger of Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4526	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a number of proposals for public prosecutors and deputies of the public prosecutors who have been exposed to us by the Supreme Council of Justice. Among these numerous proposals for prosecutors and for deputy public prosecutors, it is certainly up to us, from the Serbian Renewal Movement and New Serbia, the most interesting and most recent proposal by the High Council of Justice that the deputy in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office be Milun Dragutinovic. This is an incredibly scandalous proposal, because apart from the duplicity of his career progress, we cannot from what we have received from the High Council of Justice to conclude what it is that Milun Dragutinovic recommends that he continue to perform this very important and responsible function in the judiciary. What was it that Milun Dragutinovic deserved to continue to be the deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, and since we can't read it here, we can't see it, then there's nothing left for us but to conclude that Milun Dragutinovic recommends his five-year plot to cover up the crime at the Ibari Masteral, to cover up what the criminals did in that terrible crime and to try to cover up all those who were accomplices and who were co-organizers of what was happening on 3 October 1999 at the Ibar Masteral. I'll remind you -- Milun Dragutinovic, as a public prosecutor, is responsible for the crime at the Ibar Master's Office. Milun Dragutinovic is the one who, despite numerous material evidence, who despite the testimony of the alleged counterfeits of those who helped cover up the crime at the Ibar Masteral, who, despite witnesses' statements, who despite the recognition of Michael Kertes himself, was the key man in the cover-up of the crime at the Ibar Masteral, Milun Dragutinovic did not press charges against Mihalj Kertes, Milun Dragutinovic did not press charges against Milorad Ulemek – Legia, nor against Milorad Bracanovic, nor against Branko Djuric. So it is Milun Dragutinovic who protects the criminals, protects the helpers in the execution of the crime, protects accomplices in the cover-up of the crime, and it is Milun Dragutinovic who, in accordance with the facts in his operation, becomes an accomplice to the crime itself. I'll just read to you briefly what happened and what Mihalj Kertes did, and Milun Dragutinović knows, the whole public knows, it's also entered into the record as evidence, and yet Milun Dragutinović does nothing. Namely, right after the four-time murder at the Ibari Masteral, the truck killer of the State Security Service Michalj Kertes, was assigned to the Special Operations Unit on September 2, 1998. After this terrible crime, Mihalj Kertes, in agreement with Radomer Markovic, is a series of forgeries. First of all, Mihalj Kertes orders that a solution be incorporated from September 2, 1998, with the Mercedes 35 brand truck assigned to Serbia's MUP, so that the solution will be forged and changed to the solution that the Mercedes brand truck is assigned to the EPS, more specifically to the Belac's surface spear. The Million Dragutative knows all that. He also knows that Michal Kertes is in the book of the federal administration of customs, in so-called. A book called "control" has been erased with bleach that the recipient of the truck is Serbia's MUP and thus writes by hand that he is the recipient of the EPS truck. Then Mihalj Kertes issues a new solution in which he owns his signature that the killer's truck was assigned to the EPS, or mine, on 2 September 1998, and that the truck took over and drove to the mine of a certain Desimir Salesovic. All these forgeries made by Mihalj Kertes were also to be signed by Petar Rajic, who was at the time the head of the federal customs administration and the chief of the vehicle assignment, but Petar Rajic rejected it. He didn't want to be involved in falsifying and concealing crime. That's why on November 21st 1999, Petar Rajic lost his life in a car accident, imagine, at the Ibari Master's Office. When Rajic was removed, Mihalj Kertes signed a dead man under his falsified solutions, so that we have, I will also show you, a signature that finds the name of a dead man on the solution to hand the vehicle over to EPS, i.e. the forged signature of Petra Rajic. Mihalj Kertes also signs Desimir Svetovic, also the deceased, deadly wounded by Albanian terrorists, who was just at the time that Michael Kertes wrote this solution killed, and it says in that solution that Desimir Svetovic took the vehicle and drove it to Belacevic. Desimir Svevnović, by the way, when he was alive, didn't even know he was driving a motor vehicle. After all, Mihalj Kertes at the request of Radomer Markovic, in December 1999, the same truck branded Mercedes 35 presents to the Legion Special Operations Unit, gives it to a base in Lipovica, paints it green and thus tries to deceive the investigation and tries to convince investigators that it was the truck that did not participate in the assassination of the Ibar Masteral. All these allegations of investigation, all of this indisputable evidence, all of these counterfeits, Mihalj Kertes, admitted at a testimony on March 6th, 2001, Michalj Kertes repeated all these allegations in his testimony on January 28th, 2002. I have here a photocopy of a letter from the Federal Customs Administration, which the Federal Customs Administration informs the Serbian Ministry of the award of the goods vehicle to the EPS 35, although it has long been established, although the Serbian MUP has just demanded that the crime be covered up in this way. Here's the signature forgeries. This is where Michael Curtis signed the late Peter Rajic who, I remind you, refused to sign a memo like this. Here I also have a falsified solution from the Federal Customs Administration that says that the vehicle brands the Mercedes of these characteristics is assigned to the EPS with the signature of Michael Curtis. It's a fake, because already there was no vehicle at the time, it was destroyed, or damaged in a crime at the Ibaric Master's Office. I also have a record in front of me of the mercedes handover that Desimir Svedovic is willing to take the vehicle and drive it to Belacevac in the mine. Desimir Svetovic was not already alive at the time, and it is an amazing, obvious counterfeit. Why am I showing you this and why do I remind you of these facts? For the simple reason that someone in the High Council of Justice had thought to suggest that Milun Dragutinovic be a deputy in the public prosecutor's office and that in the Republic. We are suggested that the man who adventured last 2003 remains in that high judicial post despite the fact that man is an indisputable accomplice to those who committed the crime at the Ibaric Master's Office. The question arises who is who protects Michal Kertes, except Milun Dragutinovic. It is not disputed that Milun Dragutinovic is not the only one who protects Michal Kertes. The logical question arises - what is it that protects Michal Kertes, what is it that protecting Michal Kertes promotes Milun Dragutinovic and forces him to continue to perform a high judicial function?- I'm sorry. The question also arises, a perfectly logical question, if, despite all this obvious evidence, Milun Dragutinovic was able to ignore the need to press charges, if, despite the fact that the entire Serbian public was focused on the case in connection with the Ibar Masteral's crime, that Milun Dragutinovic has ignored it, then the conclusion is that some cases that fall to Milun Dragutinovic, who are not so clear, decidently and precisely proven. It also raises the question of what will happen to cases that like Milun Dragutinovic, which are not under public scrutiny. It's not hard to figure out what it's all about. So we're in SPO and NS, when we saw this proposal, first of all, we didn't believe it, and then we really wondered why it was doing it, why it was happening, what are the motives and who are these people who think of something like this. Milun Dragutinovic, to conclude, has no professional or moral qualifications to perform the role, or role of deputy public prosecutor in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. The SPO and NS will vote against this proposal, because we are sure that it is not worthy to perform that function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4527	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President and the Presidency, I am sorry that the minister of justice is now not present to hear criticism from the DS Parliament Club in the way the candidates for the election for the highest judicial functions in the country are proposed. First of all, I would return to the previous presentation in this high house where I challenged the constitutionality of the legal proposals, above all the Law on Judges, the Law on the High Council of Justice and the Law on Prosecutors. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court has also accepted my initiative to carry out an assessment of the constitutionality of these laws, and this initiative is forwarded to Parliament and to make known within 60 days of the founding of this initiative. This is about the topic discussed by the Serbian Parliament, as it raises the question of legitimacy and the High Council of Justice itself to propose to the Assembly to elect candidates for public prosecutorial office holders. When it comes to the composition of the High Council of Justice, I would like to underline that the High Council of Justice has no legitimacy and does not constitute an independent and independent judicial authority in Serbia, and for what? First of all, because he is not chosen by all judges and all prosecutors in Serbia to draw legitimacy for his actions. In particular, it is a question that I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, and he participated in the constitution of the High Council of Justice, which is being established in such a way that, by the function of the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court and the Republic of Public Prosecutor, they form a narrow composition or part of the narrow composition of the High Council of Justice. In Serbia, however, there is no Supreme Court President, there is no Republic Public Prosecutor, but there are officials. The question arises when we are asked by the High Council of Justice to elect a Republic Public Prosecutor and the President of the Supreme Court who is now in charge, whether they will be able to participate in the work of the High Council of Justice and whether they will be able as members of the High Council of Justice to be elected as leaders of the Serbian judiciary, because the Law on the High Council of Justice prevents members of the High Council of Justice from being elected for the highest office or to advance in the service. It is this concept that the Law on the High Council of Justice makes confusion. I believe that the officials of office and the President of the Supreme Court and the performer of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor are correct in professional and in any other sense, but they have now brought themselves to this law in a position that they cannot be proposed for candidates for these high judicial functions. The question is raised as to the proposal referred to by the Committee on Justice and Management, and I would like to remind the President of this Committee, who has just taken a moment to question the members of the Committee, who come from the DS list, about how to conduct the meetings of that Committee and about the denial of the right of Members to take part in the debate on the Committee. I, as an MP, used my right to attend the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration and I have made an observation that the Rules of Procedure in Rule 49(2) has been broken, which gives and defines the powers of the Justice and Administration Committee. The Justice and Administration Committee, when it comes to proposals for prosecutors, has the right to the Rules of Procedure, says, underlining, Article 49(2) to give an opinion on a proposal by the Republic Public Prosecutor to elect deputy public prosecutors elected by the government. This clearly speaks of the non-compliance of Article 49(2) with the Law on Public Prosecutors, but also with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I asked the Committee to plead, first of all, whether it was competent to refer the proposal to the Assembly. Given that the President of the Committee has denied me the right to declare his objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I am taking this opportunity for the Assembly to declare itself, or to refer this objection to the Administrative Committee which would resolve this conflict that we have in these general legal acts. I would like to get to know both the general public and the MPs in this assembly that the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the proposal of the High Council of Justice is nothing more than the resolution of certain, or a number of public prosecutorial functions, and without the right to participate in the debate on their work, to have the opportunity to declare in a democratic way whether they did well regardless of the period when they were elected. We have here a linear shift of public prosecutor's office because they were chosen for a certain period. In this way they are placed in an unfavourable position or in an unequal position with other public prosecutors. It was one of the topics, and it also deals with my initiative, which I submitted to the Constitutional Court of Serbia and was adopted, and is now forwarded to the Assembly for a statement. The issue of the wholeness of this election is raised, given that it is likely that these provisions of the judicial laws I mentioned will be challenged and put out of force, or removed from Serbia's legal system. In particular, I would like to stress that international legal documents defining the position and position of public prosecutors and general judicial functions have special legal protection where it is said that no one can resolve prosecutors except in cases provided for by the judge's resolution and that only the authority, an independent judicial authority, which represents an independent judicial authority can do so. According to the election method, the High Council of Justice does not constitute an independent judicial authority and an independent judicial authority. Otherwise, Serbia's prosecutor's discharges are contrary to Article 106. Serbia's constitution -- and the public prosecutor's post is permanent. The public prosecutor cannot stop his post or be relieved of his will, except in cases provided for by the judge, by law. It is precisely the way the judges are relieved that the proposal goes towards the Great Personal Council in cases where the judge does not perform his duties with dignity, or in accordance with the law. In this way, the Constitution has been harshly violated and I am submitting an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the decision of this assembly and to the decisions of the High Council of Justice and to the decisions of the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly. I expect the Constitutional Court will again, for the fifth time, accept an initiative to assess constitutionality and challenge this behaviour of the High Council of Justice. The excuse for this kind of behavior is supposed to be short notice. The minister of justice who was authorised by the High Council of Justice to represent his proposal in the Committee on Justice of the Assembly says, we had to schedule this session and the High Council of Justice so quickly and send a proposal to parliamentarians for a plea, although they did not have the opportunity to check these proposals on the ground because they were elected by citizens. Apparently, if we don't re-election the prosecutors by July 15th, they'll be out of work, but friends and dear MPs, I want to ask the general public, who's to blame for the High Council of Justice and the Justice Department being teatted that by July 15th, he has to return and choose prosecutors. Wasn't it more comprehensive for the justice minister to propose that this parliament move the deadline of July 15th of the current year because of the inability of the High Council of Justice to prepare a timely proposal for candidates for public prosecutors. Therefore, it was more comprehensive that this session of the Assembly was not to be held at all, as well as not to decide on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, primarily because the minister of justice could submit to Parliament a draft law amending the Law on Prosecutors, where the deadline of 15 July would move for the longest month and thus create general assumptions that the professional public was involved in proposing candidates for public prosecutors and their deputies. I especially want to challenge the way the High Council of Justice works. It is more like the work of a Masonic lodge, because it is not known when it is scheduled, the proposals addressed to the High Council of Justice are not known, because it is the law of the Committee for Justice and the administration of the Republic Assembly to be familiar with the proposals of the candidates who went to the High Council of Justice to prepare themselves in good time. Serbia's constitution predicts that the National Assembly is choosing prosecutors and their deputies. When it says "choice", it means that the competent High Council of Justice should place a number of candidates among whom the election would be made. This is one of the decisions challenged in this law and an integral part of the initiative on which the Constitutional Court has pleaded and considers this initiative appropriate. It is not exactly an explanation that we have received as an integral part of the proposal for candidates for the election of prosecutors and deputies, which consists of three sentences. Therefore, the argument is given uniquely to all candidates and it is said that everyone is worthy of a public prosecutor's office and that they meet the requirements prescribed by law. However, when we moved to consider certain proposals, we found that this is not true at all, that such a linear and blanco-given explanation does not drink water, because many proposed candidates do not meet exactly the legal requirements. Some are under investigation, and some are not worthy of public prosecutorial office. We have also proved this on the Justice Committee itself and the administration has challenged a large number of candidates for this very reason. Unfortunately, the new judicial laws have not moved in the reorganisation of the judiciary. It is true and I agree with the conclusion of some of my predecessors who spoke to this House today that the situation in the judiciary is bad. It was bad both in 2000 and October 5th, it's bad, and now that the new government has taken over jurisdiction over the judiciary. For what? Because the laws adopted as a basis for judicial reform do not correspond essentially to the objective. The reforms of the judiciary must be rooted and the guarantees of judicial, independence and independence must be given in the Constitution itself, and I expect this assembly to be able to obtain political power, responsibility and reach agreement on these guarantees in the future constitutional and legal act. These changes we now have do not provide the independence of the judicial authority, because there is an internal independence of the judicial and public prosecutor's office vis-à-vis the top of the judiciary. First of all, we didn't get a clearly defined judicial authority. Who does the judicial power, and where their authority comes from. We have received an oligarchy which has been deposited in the Supreme Court of Serbia for years, which elects members of the High Council of Justice and now, with the pressures of the political forces that are primarily in the representatives who form the composition of the High Council of Justice, influences the choice of candidates for judicial functions. In this context, I support my colleague Vukkovic's speech and the stance expressed by Serbia's Bargain Chamber of Lawyers through its representative, Mr. Seselja, president of the Serbian Bar Association, which abstained from voting in connection with the election of candidates for public prosecutors and their deputies. So we wouldn't be disabling the public. One session, second session. Mr. Seshlija denied his vote and did not want to take part in the vote, because he deeply disagreed with the way the session was scheduled, the way the candidates were proposed, and you heard from Mr. Minister's statement that he himself said he did not know 90% of the candidates. How did Mr. Minister decide on these candidates? How did you give your voice to those candidates? I do not understand how the High Council of Justice was established, I again ask the question of the minister who has now entered the hall, when, by law and by the High Council of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor form a narrow composition of the High Council of Justice along with some other persons. The question arises whether officials can be members of the High Council of Justice. I don't know how they've built up. Another thing that discriminates against the Assembly in the control of these public powers, which has the High Council of Justice, is that there is no representative in the High Council of Justice. So far, at least it was possible for all three branches of government in the constitution to co-ordinate the election procedure for the highest judicial functions, and this time the Assembly was denied. We've come in a position to get an octrossed proposal that we have a short deadline to plead without being able to verify on the ground. However, the DS parliamentary group and I, on its behalf, have been tasked with challenging individual candidates for the public prosecutor's office and deputy, as we have received information from the field that the following names should be challenged. We made a more detailed statement on the Committee on Justice, where we provided concrete reasons and concrete information for each objection. These are: at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Požarevec Ljubisa Vasic, in Šapc Angelić Radenko, in Nis Milovanovic Radmila; at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Šapco Pantelić-Negovinović Ana; at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Kralje Antonijević Avram, at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pirot Savić Nikola; Republican Deputys: Stanko Vujic, District Prosecutor in Novi Sad Zoran Pavlovic, Deputy District Prosecutor in Novi Sad Željka, and I will check the last name, and the second is Sinisa Keseric. One of the next speakers will name this candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4529	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the apostle Vukic appeared, and then he had the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4530	I won't be long, Mrs. Radeta will have a chance to speak to you immediately. I'm looking again for what I've already pointed out, but I don't think the president of the National Assembly has been present, and I'm not giving it up until we get the explanations. I'm no longer interested in who was protecting Boris Tadic's interests, nor are we interested, so he hid that information about the crime that took place in Temerin. I am interested, first of all, in order to finally establish the motives of such a terrible crime, so that we don't get the story of Ljuan and Bekin Mazreku again, so that no one, nor Boris Tadic, will be able to take them out of prosecution because they voted for him, or because he got the support of Joseph Kasa. We're asking you to tell us who the D.A. is, who's the one who banned the information from Novi Sad. I'm not interested in the media, or Tadic, or Karic, or Kostunica, or anyone in the regime, I'm interested in who this prosecutor is, who are these people who asked to stop publishing this information. Let's see who's trying to cover it up. Let's see who's thinking that today is about keeping quiet about such a crime. Is it because only the real and alleged crimes that Serbs commit can be talked about? And you can't talk about others? Do we need to worship everyone else and be citizens of the second or third order in this country? Just because we're Serbs by chance, or should it become common and normal for someone to put a wooden stick in anus for a man because he's a member of another nationality, to make an emergency after that, to burn his testicles, and to keep no television public about it, that nobody's talking about it!- I'm sorry. Because you were supported by a democratic candidate, a fake of course. Is that why all Serbia should be silent? Well, you can keep the media quiet, but you can't, Mr. Secretary. It's your duty to go out for a pay phone and tell who this villain has come to think of keeping his mouth shut about all this, and to announce with three days of delay, that's what's revealed in public. It's your responsibility. Let's see -- who's that prosecutor in New Sad? That one must not be chosen! Let's see who these people are, and I don't care if the people of the Democratic Party, this party or that, it doesn't matter. We want to hear their names. Let's see what kind of monster it occurred to me that, with three days of delay, it's coming out. That is what interests us, not the MPs of this assembly, not us as members of political parties, that is what interests Serbian citizens and we will not give up on this story. No one can be appalled or pardoned just because he is a member of any other people, and the Serbs will be prosecuted and persecuted, but because Ljuan and Beki Mazrek, Natasa Kandic rebelled, so it doesn't matter that they raped Serbian girls, we will let them out of prison, as we have already done. Well, it doesn't matter that they put a wooden stick in an anus man. He barely survived. The question is whether or not he's in the state of man because of all these crimes he's committed against him. It doesn't matter, because they are members of each other's people who supported, I don't know what kind of democracy I am. Now, that's not democracy. The crime is a crime, and the villains have to answer. And tomorrow, Mr. Minister, if we don't get an answer for this, I'm going to come out and ask you the same thing. I'm not asking you on my behalf or on behalf of our political party. I ask you on behalf of all Serbian citizens, because today they are much more interested in this than whether a Sheshlia has heard or not heard of your meeting at 13.15 or at 16.15. I really don't know what this is about, nor does it interest the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens are interested in the motives of criminals and who helped the villains cover up what happened in Temerin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4531	Of course, I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure. Please, I'll give you my word, according to the Rules of Procedure. I always give my word to the Rules of Procedure because it is my duty, but I beg the MPs - the law is the same for everyone. With a lot of understanding about condemning crimes and seeking answers to crimes, it is only possible that people are responsible for crimes if the law is respected. It's not just about the previous speaker. I will not, I repeat again - the law is the same for everyone, let the Rules of Procedure be misused without speaking of the Rules of Procedure as long as I sit at this place. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4532	It is a replica, said Boris Tadic, president of the Democratic Party. So Mr. Wolf didn't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4533	Excuse me, replica or...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4534	Replica. This is not about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure by Mr. Vukic. This is about the political abuse of crime, the victim in favor, this time, the SRS. The fact that you didn't win the election is one question. But why mention Mr. Boris Tadic? Why do you mention Mr. Tadic about the crime we all condemn and we're all upset about this crime. It's just, we don't think we should go out for this pay phone and use that crime to score political points. It's a shame what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4535	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic, to mention the SRS, please. Please, it's not a replica on the line. It's a reference to the SRS. Please, it's clear. Mr. Markovic gave a replica to the presentation of MP Vukic. I'm sorry, and MP Vukic can't respond to the replica, of course, but this replica has caused the mention of the SRS. A replica of the head of the SRS parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4536	And based on the Rules of Procedure of the Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it's a crime to cover up. Alexander Vukic made it clear and loud - two days is a covert crime. And that was the one you from the Democratic Party held in the cabinet's session as a prosecutor. It's quite clear. You said you didn't know what happened in Temerin for two days. And that's using crime for political purposes. We can't change the results of the election by pointing out what happened, but the question is, what would it look like Saturday morning would have happened? Because, don't forget one thing, when the riots broke out in Kosovo and Metohija in 1998, I was from this pay phone, as a folk MP, inviting Milan Milutinovic to calm down his voters. For he had a thousand and a half thousand votes in these villages in which the Serbs cast out. It was moral of you to invite voters Boris Tadic on Saturday morning to stop making atrocities against Serbs in Temerin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4537	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a People's MP Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4538	Boris Tadic's voters did not commit any crimes. The results say criminals voted for Tomislav Nikolic. Those are the results from the prison. Tomislav Nikolic was their candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4539	Mr. Markovicu, which member of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to? Here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4540	Let me get this straight. Why does someone vote for someone? I'm convinced that the people who were convicted and sustained the sentences voted for me because you hid the criminals who were supposed to be in prison with them. That's one thing. Another thing, if what people from prison voted for me makes me a criminal, does Boris Tadic vote for him by Hungarians, make Hungarians? Does what the Muslims voted for make him a Muslim? We, at this time, have received word that Zoran Petrovic died, are leaving the National Assembly session. We are no longer interested in the Assembly today.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4541	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dusan Petrovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4542	Article 100. Rules of Procedure. No matter what SRS MPs leave the O.R., one of the more important things is to be worthy of defeat. Serbian radicals have now shown how unworthy they are in defeat. Abuse human tragedies, abuse of human suffering, is inappropriate even in everyday life, let alone in public acts. To mention the president of Serbia in this context is a political disgrace for the state. But we have seen this from Serbian radicals to now and therefore Serbian radicals will never be the majority in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4543	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Bogoljub Pejčić, and let the MP Dragoljub Stamenković be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no radicals, but it's a good thing they're gone, because their patriotism is already symptomatic because they want to prove that we're analytical, that we don't have any feelings for our people? I would like to go back to the agenda and ask the question of the High Council of Justice - why do they have so much courage, why do they have so much courage, and Mr. Minister, not to say the insolence, to propose to some people for the most responsible functions in the prosecution, the people who have left in their work criminal leads in our justice and who, by their actions, have disgraced the profession and humiliated justice?- I'm sorry. My previous colleague told me everything about Prosecutor Dragutinovic. I would just like to add to one, that the same prosecutor Milun Dragutinovic, in fact, stalled for years with the Legion indictment, which later tragically reflected on the death of Zoran Djindjic. If Prosecutor Dragutinovic had acted under the law, that a bunch of evidence of his involvement in the crime at the Ibar Master's Office, along with Bracanovic and Branko Djuric-Montenegro, and mention Kertes, therefore, that the Legion was arrested in good time on the basis of evidence held by Prosecutor Dragutinovic, Zoran Djindjic would be alive today. It is the most tragic consequence, following a crime at the Ibaric Master's Office, of the work of Prosecutor Dragutinovic. Instead of being lustrated by prosecutor Dragutinovic, even being indicted against prosecutor Dragutinovic, prosecutor Dragutinovic goes into senior office. So, a nonsens to whom anyone could hardly understand, who was engaged in the profession, and the same as to Prosecutor Sweein Mrdak. How much yesterday you heard that Veselin Mrdak agreed to separate himself from the case Stambolic, an assassination in Budva, and suggested the possibility of abolising, i.e. liberating the criminal responsibility of Pavkovic. In the end, it will turn out that Ivan Stambolic himself was digging his own cancer, that Ivan Stambolic shot himself in the back of the head. The same is true of another prosecutor, and this is prosecutor Milan Bojkovic, who led and led the case of Curuvija. After five years, Prosecutor Boykovic does not move in the tracks, although there are clues, does not move with his indictment and he thinks it is his main reference to be now the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. No, gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, if you are truly for the reformed judiciary and for the removal of the people who humiliated this same judiciary, you will never allow the servants of the regime, whoever, to be the masters of justice again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4545	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. He's not here. ) There is a word from the People's Messenger Dejan Rajicic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4546	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will not say for long what the MPs of the New Serbia parliamentary group - the Serbian Renewal Movement and with the name of Veselin Mrdak and Milun Dragutinovic have said, I would add another name that formally has nothing to do with the previous two, but it is very important if we want to set up a good concept and a good organisation in the judiciary, and this is about Mr Zogovic Zorin, who has been proposed by the High Council of Justice for the Public Prosecutor in Zajecar, and I ask the High Council of Justice to withdraw this proposal for Mr Zogović Zorina. I hope the Assembly will come forward tomorrow and I would like to ask Mr. Stojkovic, as representative of the High Council of Justice at today's session of the Assembly, to record the name. To explain for a long time why he simply does not satisfy, in our opinion, his qualities, moral and all others, to perform such a significant function.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4547	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. He's not here. ) The word has a Messenger of the people Dusan Petrovic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4548	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since it is not certain that all the disputes held by the Democratic Party at today's session have entered the stenographic report, I will only repeat that we are contesting the proposal to be elected Deputy District Attorney in Novi Sad Gvojic Zeljko and Deputy Prosecutor in Prokuplje Razelović Violet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4549	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He's not here. ) The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic. He's not here. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. He's not here. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4550	Mr. President, fellow Members of Parliament, I was in a position to obtain further information from my colleague about a proposal for a deputy district attorney in Leskovec, so for these reasons, I am going out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to challenge the proposal of the High Council of Justice to elect Mr. Stanić Đure for this place, since, in our opinion, there are absolutely no conditions for the candidate being chosen to perform this responsibility, because we believe that he has done his job unprofessionally and unoccupiedly, and that he has put pressure on the committees of the Municipality of Leskovac in the cases of solving property-legal relations under the plot plan. That's something to say, and I think the rest of the things we said about this on the Committee, and, of course, we're going to get to the point as suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4551	Before I conclude a unique search on the motions for decisions, do the proposing representatives want to give the final statement? The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4552	I've listened to all the suggestions and remarks that have been made. We'll consider the same. We've accepted for some, I'm talking about the Cup, the proposal has already been withdrawn, so we'll get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-06-29-0.u4553	I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have conducted a single search on the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, on the contested proposals under Article 175(4). Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Wednesday 30 June 2004 as Voting Day. We'll approach the vote at 10.00 hours.
