ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u324	This is a unique case. The incident that took place in the July 22nd 2003 vote is a complete technical leadership absent and will return here as soon as it makes a statement in court. So we can continue the session at 11.00, because the microphones are not working right now. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 198 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Išpanović Istvan, Goran Svilanovic, Goran Davidovic, Miroslav Martic, Gordana Comic, Radoslav Jovic, and that Meso Omerovic will be late. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE PURPOSE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC(s) The word has a National MP, Bosko Ristić. (Alexander Wolfie, from the scene: I have 10 minutes.) After Mr. Ristic. Mr. Ristic is not here. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u326	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we are in the SRS, and it seems to me, and the general public of Serbia has come up with some new data that sheds a different light on the bill, but also on everything that is happening today in our country. Of course, we'll wait for official information from the board of directors' session, but to let you know that we from the SRS, but obviously the majority of the board of directors, were right yesterday when we pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, when it was not withdrawn from the agenda of the second point, which speaks of the election of governors and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. It's a good thing the board of directors did it. Now I'd just say that it's obvious that there are a number of motives why someone at all costs is trying to avoid an emergency call of presidential elections. It's not what anyone would say, just for political competition or just for the victory of Tomislav Nikolic. That is a key reason, but the key reason is this: it is the victory of Tomislav Nikolic, but because of the fact that, as president of the Republic, he would also have significant powers, especially as the controller of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the possibility of asking questions, inviting ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for establishing a new and yet unremembered organized mob group in this part of Europe. What's this about? In Serbia, it is being established and it is obvious that it is trying to power the largest organised mob gang, led by Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic. These are the people who robbed the state of Serbia, huge money. There are several questions, primarily Minister Djelic and those who have worked in the government of the Republic of Serbia: how is it possible that they remembered these things only when they leave the government, only when it is clear that they can no longer manage the state of Serbia; how did they remember to inform the public, that is, that the label is "strictly confidential" from certain documents at the moment they leave their posts and why they didn't talk about it earlier, when we warned them about it? Namely, this mob organisation of international proportions, the largest mob gang in this part of Europe, has robbed the state of Serbia for more than $150m. The mafia gang is helping political parties, part of political parties coming to power in the Republic of Serbia. At all costs, they must establish such a power, so they can remain free and continue to rob Serbia. What's this about? That Vuk Hamovic, through the EFT firm in London, has robbed the state budget of the Republic of Serbia in an indirect manner, through the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, for more than $100m only in the last two years. To the side that once the tenders were not called, but the biggest fraud was made in this part of Europe, which could have occurred to someone. It calls for a tender of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, but there are no offers, or offers, but there is no guarantee that it will be paid. Of course, no solid, no normal firm is responding to a tender, except for one, who knows she'll get paid, and at significantly higher prices. It's the company of big mobster Vuk Hamovic. Every time he gets paid, and there are no guarantees on purpose that no one else would participate in something like this, and then he shows up as a savior, as someone who helps Serbia do God's dubious jobs, in hard jobs. Vojin Lazarevic, the owner of Squadra and Pima, also participates in all of this, but also owns many other companies. Then we'll talk about how they are and who they're working with, which are businessmen who support which political parties, how these companies were formed, how the Ju Point was divided into "The same Point", "Hem Point", and I don't know what points already. The international mob organisation has decided to establish power in Serbia. It's obvious she didn't mind until yesterday, and that by yesterday, she managed Serbia to a significant extent, and then something broke, something happened between their partners in power and them, so they suddenly began to take off the "stortly confidential" markings with the most significant robberies in the last decade in Serbia. Now let's remind ourselves, two and three years ago, criminal charges were filed against the people, which they shared with the workers of the bonuses, which they... Mr. Markovic, a pretty and charming lady is giving you a theme, but don't underestimate Mr. Markovic, he knows how to behave. (President: Please, Mr. Wolf, you have your ten minutes, independent of the subject, you have the right to use your ten minutes. Thank you. This is the real theme. So, already today, I think within an hour at the latest, the SRS will submit a proposal to the Serbian Assembly for the establishment of a polling committee on the largest robbery survey by the organised mob group, headed by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Their involvement in the National Savings Bank, as the financial capital of electricity has succeeded in criminal ties and in a criminal way not to come, and in fact it is a fictional one to come to the National Savings Centre, as well as how Serbian citizens have been robbed, all under the cover of democracy, great fighting against crime, a great fight for fair, good and organised power. It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to accept this bill, that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, for at least 120 days, could not win the presidential election, to extend it for another 120 days, so that he could not seriously affect the destruction of an organised mob group, which is trying to manage lives in Serbia. This organized mob group in Serbia is very dangerous and you know it well. They are very dangerous people and almost no one in Serbia has dared to take them more seriously. We in the Serbian Radical Party are not afraid of their reaction, their attacks or something else, it is important that the citizens of Serbia know this, but we will seek the formation of a polling committee in a fair manner. Not according to the representation here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but as we have always asked - from each parliamentary group one man at a time. So we're not going to go as far as we have MPs, which is a third, so two from the Serbian Radical Party, four from the others. No, as the survey committee is made, one from each of the parliamentary groups. Make it six members of the polling committee, that these people establish and institutions what this organised mob group is doing, which it is helping in the political scene of Serbia, what kind of government it is today, what government it wants and wants to establish, why it wants to be established, who it will be, and who it will be, and how it will be protected. (President: your time is up, Mr. Wolfie, please finish. Our time, Mr. Markovic, is just coming, and time is running out for Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic and organized mob groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u327	Mr. Pitiæ called, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u328	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of Article 81(1) and (4) relating to the meeting of the National Assembly. Paragraph 1 states that the sessions are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, with an interruption of one hour, and in paragraph 4 says – an extraordinary session of the National Assembly (so it is not an exception, it is a rule) can also be held on another day if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the President of the National Assembly tells MPs when it decides to hold a session for the other days. So it's a technical and business matter. There was a practice in the previous session that the congregation would declare whether it would be done for some other days. It's not a dispute, and we really don't have a hard time working both Mondays and Fridays and every other day, but please don't break the Rules of Procedure on such trivial issues, and obviously it's a violation. The president just scheduled for today's session, without any explanation. The assembly did not declare itself, nor is it required by the Rules of Procedure to plead, but I think it is unusually important, if we advocate legalism, that we respect the Rules of Procedure, that we do not violate it from day one. The second proposal - given the fact that the session of the Administrative Committee found it impossible to continue the session because the Rules of Procedure was injured, i.e. that practically this item of the agenda was defined by the Administrative Board as something the Assembly cannot decide on - is that the Assembly declares the interruption of this session. We have more than 126 MPs and I ask you to put my proposal to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u329	Thank you. As you yourself have concluded, there is no obligation for the Assembly to declare itself. So, discreetly, it's the President of the Assembly's right, I quote, to continue the work. That discretionary right is respected. Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, when it comes to the Management Board's report, I expect to get it any minute now and see if it says so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u330	So, please, it's defined. Now you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. The Management Board has been defined to decide on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. They will repeat the previous injury and this injury that you have now committed. So, in Section 4. - a session of the National Assembly can be held on another day, if there are reasonable reasons why the President of the National Assembly will tell the MPs when the session is decided to be held for other days. There's absolutely nothing reported. It's just a session scheduled for today. So, the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and I ask that the Administrative Committee be heard about it. I have the right as an MP for that. Do not deny me this right and you as chairman have no right to define in this Rules of Procedure whether or not the infringement has been committed. My second right as an MP is to ask that, on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Committee, the Assembly be declared to interrupt this session and please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u331	Mr. Pitiæ, I have no intention of denying you this right, but I ask you to be patient to listen to it all the way. I'm giving you this right, there's no need for the Assembly to plead, the Administrative Board needs to plead for an interruption. Please make an appointment of the Administrative Board. Is Mr. Nikolic here? It's not. Mr. Cvetkovic? Please make an appointment of the Administrative Board. Thank you. In the meantime, we continue our work. The next speaker is Igor Becic. Please prepare Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u332	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS has already said it will vote against the draft law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic, for several reasons. It is clear that the DSS wants to postpone the president's election and maintain this unconstitutional situation in Serbia. We see this these days, or earlier days of the session, and these previous two points have also made it clear that the DSS and this scrawny majority in the Serbian Parliament want to extend this situation, caused by the Democratic Party in the past period. It's true they want to destroy institutions. And we see it with all these decisions. It is clear that we must strictly respect the Constitution, and the Constitution states that we must have a president and that only members 86 and 87 should be applied there. The Constitution. Following the adoption of these points following this point and the adoption of the SRS proposal to reduce censorship, the situation will be resolved immediately afterwards. The election has to be called, and after that, it's certain we'll get the president. It is clear that the solutions to the election process, which contains the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, have been overcome, and in this direction is our proposal at the next point. The SRS proposal regulates the matter of the law, reduces the censorship and we get the President of the Republic. It is clear that the current, ruling majority in this assembly, although we still do not know if there is one, will see after the vote for governor, wants to postpone this to 90 days, that the president will not win, because it is clear that in the presidential elections, which is obviously after the December 16th and 28th elections, the SRS candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, will win this election. There are also some coalitions being talked about, and we see that the government of the Republic of Serbia strongly supports DSS proposals and rejects SRS proposals. So much for coalitions. It is clear that since 1997 we have not had a president, because what Mr Milutinovic has done to Serbia is well known. Also, V.D. Ms. Natasa Micic's situation shows that at one point, when the Serbian public asked for the elections to be discussed again, after the failed elections in those three election rounds, in 2002 and 2003, when the electoral tours failed, when the Serbian public asked to discuss elections at all levels, came out and said – I decided to discuss the elections now. And who believes in Serbia that she has decided? She only did so on the Democratic Party's initiative, when elections were seen to be in Serbia and elections would have to be discussed at all levels. We have a situation that DOS has thoroughly destroyed, with various manipulations, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and for a year prevented the election of the president. We now see that they have an even greater motive to do so, because it is clear that after 28 December, in all future elections, and especially in elections for the Republic Assembly, elections for the local and regional parliament, only the SRS will win and that SRS Deputy President Mr Tomislav Nikolic will be Serbia's president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u333	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragoljub Kojčić, and let Professor Milet Poscurica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u334	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the other day was a celebration 200 years ago from the rise of the Serbian uprising, from 1804 to 2004, which, now directly and in connection with the topic, was so well-conceived, especially at the Sava Centre, that it was completely hidden only the being of the Serbian uprising, so it was as if it were two centuries from modern Serbian statehood, so the aria of toreadors from Bize's opera "Karmen". We are here today in a situation like the Maricevic Jaruza, that we do not have near the foundations of constitutionality, legality, legality and institutionality. The situation we encountered from the previous government is also worse than the one found in Maricevic's Jaruza. There's one problem. There is a problem that the SRS has a kind of misunderstanding about real political interests during these sessions. On the one hand, there is a haste about the election of a new president of Serbia, and on the other hand the possibility of passing one such addition to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia that would allow the law to be implemented and that we will indeed get the President of the Republic after almost two years. So it's unclear whether we're going to get speed or base speed, or just want to get speed without a foundation. The unfoundedness here also relies on another understanding that was shown during the debate on Cora Udovicki, or directly, when it was said to be a legal governor, or through the thesis that it was a living governor. Serbia only has Kori Udovicki, she is of course, thank God, alive and well-looking, but Kori Udovici is not the legal governor of the NBS, and there is a real problem. The modern theory of legitimacy and the theory of legitimacy in a democratic society implies that it is legal only what is legitimate, only what has been qualified by passing the procedure. So Cory Widowsky didn't go through the procedure. She's neither legal nor legitimate. And there's another problem, which is such an understanding of legality, where it's only important that a self-sustainer hit the seal on a decision, perhaps what is the secret link between the DSS and the SRS in this case. So that's something that belongs to the times behind us, and we as a people who have been defined for the democratic construction of a state to accept, from now on, in all the laws that we have passed, the foundation of legality will always be strictly legitimate. Since the election option for the President of the Republic has been announced, and apparently has started a pre-election campaign, I must conclude that a significant number of SRS voters, who from the most frequent patriotic initiatives gave their vote, could, and we are different from our predecessors, to draw only one conclusion, that unfortunately this vote for the protection of national and state interests is unusable. That's a good voice for the opposition, but we need a position. The DSS is precisely the safest place to collect the most votes that care not only about the story of national and state interests but about their operational realization. So Tomislav Nikolic certainly came out well with Dragoljub Micunovic, but since the role of the President of the Republic is, above all, the representation of the people, which is one of our kind of mirrors, in front of us, it is a team first and foremost in front of the world, and in the world we have to act, it has proved that many of our troops are the result of a lack of understanding in which the national interest is truly protected from the international community. Of course, it is not without a large part of responsibility, it is very important that, with the very personality of the President of the Republic, a maximum of those virtues and those interests of the people that this country can have today. Since there was a proposal for a political duel between Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Kostunica, who did not highlight his candidacy for the president of the Republic, I will only tell you that the representative capacity of Vojislav Kostunica today is the largest representative capacity of this people. And the propo of legality and legitimacy, this walking zebra here somewhere behind us has no legitimacy or legality, and maybe it would be good to start with her getting rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u335	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u336	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we do not, of course, object when the representatives of the new government speak in this way, we do not object, we do not ask you to warn them on the subject, regardless of what has nothing to do with the bill. I didn't realize that the bill of law is how to try to beat the Serbian Radical Party, I didn't realize that it was the essence of the bill, perhaps, but here it is now as a fundamental motive and intent to show Mr. Kojcic behind this speaker. He spoke of the motives of those who voted for the SRS. You're right, Mr. Kojcic, these are honest people, good people, most unfortunately poor people who want to live better, who want to be on their own and nothing more than that. That's right. There's something that's not true, and that's, you said, Mr. Kojcic, that their voices are not used. The voices of these good people, brave people (when I say brave people, I mean those who were allowed to vote for the SRS in addition to all the tricks and haranga that is against it, even in this campaign, and especially through the B92 led) were not used when you made a coalition of carriages and ropes just to get hold of the chair and the authorities, but the voices of those people were used when you represent their interests with honor, honestly, responsiblely, when you advocate to fight for what these people voted for. That's the fundamental difference between you and me. We don't care about representation capacity, so we can represent both G17 and SPS and SPS and DSS and Nebojsa Covic and Slobodan Orlic at the same time, and I don't know any other political party. It is important for us, unlike you, to represent the people and citizens of Serbia. That, Mr. Kojcic, is most important to us and is most important to the citizens of Serbia. That's what we'll do in the future. You say - you in the Serbian Radical Party, which you heard from the representatives of a political organisation in this assembly, for which neither mother will vote anymore because it is clear to them that we would never enter parliament again, and we (that is, the next point of the agenda) have proposed this 3% censorship, that many of the parties who are on your side be able to fight for that censorship in the next election, that they do not have a very big and indecisive task of what a 5% voter's censorship is. I have to point out one more fact, you can repeat it to people a hundred times -- you voted for the SRS, and you didn't get the government. They didn't get the government because we didn't want to go into that government in an dishonest way; because we didn't want to participate in that government with those you're involved with; because we didn't want to protect Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, or anyone else; because we're not going to protect any criminal and go to the government with those who accused it in the worst possible way, but also because we didn't want to... (President: Please, Mr. Wolfie, respect your time.) )......................................................................................................... and why we don't want to explain to Serbian citizens how we in some government with the DSS, how it is with the SPS, how we do it with some other political parties. Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS. (President: Mr. Wolf, I warn you one more time, you will respect the time, I hope, which expired a minute ago. I'll be done in ten seconds. So, Mr. Kojcic, don't worry about the SRS voters, regardless of the fact that the victory of the SRS has been kidnapped, not legally, but in terms of legality anyway. I have to tell you something, these voters are angry, but not at us, but at those who took that victory. So in the next election, we expect it to be presidential, local and rural, that victory will be much more convincing, and all to show you what people really wanted, what they really thought and who they wanted in power, and be sure they don't want you, but the SRS do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u337	The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica, and let Gordana Komic be prepared. I must speak to all MPs to persistently deceive both MPs and the public with constant promises that you will end in ten or twenty seconds, I will have to use my obligation. Please, when I warn you in time, be kind, I think I've been very correct all these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is very good at what the people think, what they're obsessed with and what they're interested in. We feel it all that way, and that's why we did well in the election. In our political engagement, we are politically articulating the will of the people. So, after this assembly was formed, we handed over a set of laws that we think reflect the real interest of this people to change something important, which is why these elections took place before the time and were the result of what was going on in the past. One of the points that we're going to discuss right after this is our proposal, and by the strange nature of the circumstances, I suppose, regarding the headquarters, the epicenter of this new coalition, came another point ahead of our amendment to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. It is just as strange as it is strange that Gordana Pop-Lazic does not chair this session, and you will have to explain it to the citizens or they will explain it to you in the new elections that will probably come soon. Why is it important that we have the elected President of the Republic, why is this an important segment in the structure of government, in the segment of legal law and order? It's important, because he's actually subliming within himself an primal right of the voters to have a team, a man they're going to trust. It is possible that there really is a situation in Serbia that trust in such an institution has been lifted. It is possible that the crisis is an institution that we know exists from October 5th at all levels; at first these strike committees, as they are already called, I mean those who have changed and replaced left-right, and all in all, it was not a crisis in this system, so it's a crisis and this function. Is it also who has contributed to the president's institution being such that the issue of turnout is raised and that someone is now using it as a fact that if it is a small turnout it is possible that it is not an essential function. The government has somehow made a different statement today. The SRS is not responsible for the devaluation of that institution. This sublime sovereignty of the people of the SRS always stands out; we are talking about the importance of the president. It's possible that someone had done this significantly before us, perhaps one who used unlimitedly other forms of government, more than they belonged to under the Constitution, maybe the one behind him who didn't even get involved in the business, and what those candidates who followed back three years in two or three attempts at some coalition, inexorably, inconclusive, and it's probably very much like this current coalition you've made. You've made the people talk about it, even if they don't come out, so what if the president decides, what can he decide, etc. To cut off such a situation once, let us give the people an opportunity to elect the president to the extent they want and to show confidence to a man, I mean, of course, Tomislav Nikolic. Had it been luck, had it been justice and justice, it would have been Vojislav Seselj, so it wouldn't have happened that happened with institutions that couldn't be controlled by the President under the Constitution, which should have been controlled. Had Vojislav Seselj been president of Serbia, many laws would not have passed, nor would those laws before which people question whether they would have a company tomorrow to report to work, nor the Labour, Privatisation, Lustration, etc. All of it, and if it were to pass, it would be more obvious to the people the way it went. We are fighting for a man who will be able to stand before every decision of the Assembly, because the Constitution allows him to return to the congregation an illegal law, to repair it, to revise it, so if he votes it and returns it, then at least he will know who's guilty. We want to show that the president has jurisdiction in other functions, not just the control of the executive. In a certain way, he must worry about the implementation of legality and constitutionality. He's a representative of this country, a guarantee of her unity. Don't we need to have a strong guarantee of the unity of this country now? There's a lot of things going on over her. Should it remain unique? Does anyone need to symbolize the firmness of the guarantor? Of course, I don't think anyone can do it better than the Serbian radical, and this time Tomislav Nikolic. I often mention, I don't want to apologize for it, it's not an election campaign yet, it's probably going to be soon; but I think it is, and I want to let the citizens of Serbia know as long as we're here to fight for exactly what we heard from them, to solve vital problems, and we're just going to put it before this body, to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u339	The word is Mrs. Comic. He's not here. The word is Blagoje Krajinović, and let Mr. George Mamula be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party considers Serbia to be the time to get the President of the Republic. It is necessary to have the first man to represent us all legitimately and legally. This condition that exists, this vacuum, is totally unsustainable. Such a significant function must no longer be covered by V.D. with a condition. Historically, in 2004, it is very important for our country, because it is the year in which we celebrated 200 years of Serbian statehood. We have waited to mark her unprepared, thanks to the regime that leaves the political scene, without the President of the Republic, without the government, in one general chaos and chaos. It was sad to see the highest representatives of our country, v.d., address the nation at such an important time. President of the Republic and Prime Minister on departure. Only because of the former majority's narrow interests has so far not been approached by amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. I hope, on behalf of all 1,200,000 citizens who voted for the Serbian Radical Party, that this time we will change the law that has led us to get that personality, the man who would lead us out of this chaos and bring us into some more peaceful waters. We have a man like that, smart and responsible, above all popular. It is Tomislav Nikolic, the one who will surely win the next election, any candidate to oppose it. Serbia needs to get some rest so it can rise from the ruins of the previous policy, and he is a man who can do it. I suggest that the bill be accepted, but from the next agenda point, right now, that we don't waste time, because we've already lost enough of it in endless arguments. I suggest that this point be not accepted, and that as soon as tomorrow, new elections will be discussed. I think it's past Mrs. Micic's time, that there are no more people who, like her, would have so brutally used their accidentally acquired and deserved position. The delay and postponement of the election date for the president does not correspond to anyone, and at least it corresponds to Serbia. Only from the President of the National Assembly or V.D. The president of the Republic of Serbia depends whether we have a legally elected president quickly or not. Why wait 60 days? Call the elections immediately, and you colleagues and fellow MPs, your ability to overcome party interests will depend on whether the president will be elected safely. That is why I call on you not to look at the interests but to give serious and reasonable thought and to give support to the addition of the law on the election of the president, which we have proposed, which will only speed up and facilitate that the will of the citizens of Serbia finally be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u341	The word is Mr. George Mamula, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u342	The constitutional basis for this bill is in Article 87(7). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in the reasons for the passing of laws by emergency procedure, was said to have been elected by the president of the National Assembly on 4 February 2004 and to have elections to be held for the president of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, no regulation sets out the obligation of the president of the National Assembly to call elections for the president of Serbia, more specifically, does not set a deadline within which he is required to call the elections. The President of the Republic is an important state institution in Serbia, so if it is not elected sooner, the work of other state institutions in Serbia may be compromised. For this proposal, which actually contains only one member, because one member has been added to the existing law, and 27 MPs have announced, which means that he has provoked your interest and deserves your attention. The reasons you received are that the Constitutional Court made a decision on 18 September 2003 establishing that the non-constitutional provision of Article 5i paragraph 3. The law on the election of the President of the Republic, under which the President of the National Assembly, within 60 days of the date on which the failed elections were held, decides to call a new election for the President of the Republic. The reason for the non-constitutional provision is that the president of the National Assembly is not authorised to decide whether to call the elections or not. If you decide, you could decide for so long that we can wait for these elections for months. That is why this proposal determines the exact moment when the election has to be called and there is no longer an interpretation of whether or not it will call the elections. From the moment of entry into force of the Constitutional Court decision (19 September 2003) there has been a legal gap in our legal order. Although the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic continues to have the notion of unsuccessful elections (i.e. Article 5(1)), none of the regulations, nor the Constitution of Serbia, nor the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, determines the deadline within which the President of the National Assembly is required to call the elections after the failed elections for the President of the Republic. The purpose of this bill is to resolve this legal gap and allow timely elections for the President of the Republic in order to establish legal certainty. Under the bill, the president of the National Assembly has a legal duty to call elections for the President of the Republic within 60 days of the date on which the failed elections were held. This brings certainty and security into the legal order, which currently does not have a norm that determines until when the president of the National Assembly calls the elections. The deadline for the vote is beginning from the moment of holding the failed elections for the President of the Republic. Without this provision, that moment is not clear. Although the Serbian Constitution does not know the concept of unsuccessful elections, the law explicitly predicts it, so only a moment of ending the failed elections can be relevant for setting the start of the deadline for calling the elections. No other fact in time can be relevant for determining the start of the deadline: not a moment of regular termination of the term of office of the President of the Republic (and this is Article 86). The Constitution), not a moment of premature termination of the term of office of the President of the Republic (Article 87). The Constitution of Serbia). In addition, Serbia's legal and practical state since 29 December 2002, when the mandate of Serbia's last president ceased, has resulted in the failure of later elections for Serbia's president. Of course, all those who have supported this proposal thank you, as well as those who have had objections. I would recommend this proposal with your attention that we vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u343	The word has the People's MP Zoran Antić, and let Mr Branislav Ristivojevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, my name is Zoran Antić and I come from Jagodina, and I'd like to say right from the start that we're off to a bad start, feeling this tension, nervousness, feeling one of the violence that's going through the first point of the line, where we've responded by violence, and through the second point of the agenda where we've chosen the governor even though we haven't changed the previous governor yet, and the violence within this part of the agenda. At this point, one DSS proposal is being ordered by the SRS proposal, which was otherwise delivered to the MPs a little earlier. I think the reason the SRS gave this bill, which first and foremost abolishs the 50% censorship, is well-known to the citizens. We tried three times to reach the President of the Republic, and we didn't get it. It is perfectly normal and the wish is for the DSS to vote for this SRS proposal; this suggests that we were right to deliver this proposal to all MPs and that we expected that this proposal would be relatively easy to accept and, if necessary, to some additional amendments, some of its ideas to enrich this proposal. Mr Dejan Mihajlov and the DSS have obviously decided to take a different path, to in some ways degrade this SRS proposal by submitting their proposal for a law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic, which is in itself an attempt to demean the SRS and a sufficient reason that the SRS MPs do not vote for this law. The proposal itself had a lot of illogicalness and legal indetermination, if I can assess it, since I am not a lawyer, because in the first position of the proposal it says that the president of the National Assembly is calling new elections within 60 days of the day when the failed elections were held. If you already accept the SRS proposal that there is no censorship, there will be no unsuccessful elections. This attitude from this member of the law is quite excessive, unnatural, unnecessary. The deadline you give from 60 days (in the second position) from the election day of the Assembly's vote to call these elections is also opposed to the position of the SRS that elections should be called immediately, the moment we elect the president of the assembly. The deadline itself is essentially too long, counting the obligation that the election day should be between 30 and 90 days from the day the elections are discussed. These 90 days and these 60 days, that's about 150 days, and that's five months from the moment we elected the president of the assembly. It's too long a deadline; looking at our situation today, that would mean we'd get the President of the Republic out there at the end of June, possibly in May. If we don't have municipal elections in the meantime, and we stay that municipal elections are to be held in September of this year, we get the impression that like the previous convocation, we offer the people games at a time when there is no bread. The election has stalled, public attention focuses on some political issues, and poverty and poverty have already been the biggest knock on the door of most Serbian citizens' homes. All of this is just enough reason for the SRS MPs to decide not to accept this bill that you have filed, gentlemen of the DSS, because the proposal is quite problematic and your intentions are not fully clear. My wish is also to invite those MPs who understand the essence and inconsistencies of this proposal to join the SRS that this bill is not voted out, and that the bill guaranteeing the election of a president within a very short period of time, which is the SRS proposal, we all accept and get to the new president as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u345	Thank you. Mr Branislav Ristivojevic, and let Boris Karaičić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it seems to me that yesterday the Assembly made a small mistake when she refused to discuss this and the next item of the agenda together, because few speakers came out today and yesterday without talking about both. I think most of all that says that the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which my party has tabled and a similar proposal submitted by the SRS, is more compatible, i.e. to agree. What does that mean? There are several reasons why we've come to this situation, which is that we don't have a president of the Republic. One problem is the one we have in the Constitution, which is that he doesn't know the category of failed choices. Another problem is the fact that the president of the previous assembly, by interpreting certain provisions of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic and their tense interpretation, refused to call the elections. After that, we all know, it has been said for this speaker ten times and yesterday and today, the Constitutional Court declares that decision unconstitutional. We now simply have two problems to solve and solve them, one party in one way, and the other party in another way, but less - more proposals that are being complemented. One of the reasons why we didn't get the President of the Republic is this 50% non-risk censorship, which has repeatedly prevented, for example, Mr. Kostunica from being elected in 2002 or Mr. Nikolic last year. Also, we have a problem that I mentioned at the beginning, which is that the category of failed elections does not know the Constitution. Since the constitution also states that the matter of the election of the President of the Republic is regulated by law, we have tried in our proposal to solve this problem. We are simply introducing a category of failed elections with this proposal and introducing a commitment to the president of the National Assembly, I repeat - the obligation, within 60 days of the day of his election, to call elections for the President of the Republic. So, these speculations that we heard yesterday and today after this pay phone that it's going to be some 150-day deadlines, 250-day days, and I don't think one of the honourable fellow MPs bid until 330, that's all there is. The deadline prescribed by this law is clear and binding for the President of the Republic, which is 60 days. I think that all the objections that come from this pay phone were completely unfounded, and especially since the various content came from the esteemed colleagues from the SRS. Most colleagues have said that our intentions by this bill are clear and that we will postpone the election, and our dear colleague, the previous speaker says our intentions are unclear. I would say and underline, it is quite clear what we propose to this law on the addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which is simply a solution to a problem that does not know the Constitution, which is a category of unsuccessful elections, and the introduction of a commitment, so that no president of the National Assembly, not a Martian, can act as the president of the previous call has done, and that is to decide whether or not he will call the elections. So it's very simple. My colleagues from the SRS have made an effort to deal with the censorship problem in their bill, and I think it would be best and I call on the honourable fellow MPs to vote for both one and another proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u347	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ristivojevic said this ensures that there is no longer any future delay in calling the presidential election. And to even accept all the disputed legal arguments to say that everything we've said is not true, and all you've said is true, there's one thing that gives you away and shows that Serbian radicals were right. Why, now you'll hear. Why was it left for 60 days, because that deadline is not three days, seven days or some smaller time period, to make it clear to everyone that the elections are immediately being discussed, because the only constitutional situation is either that we have a president of the Republic or that we have elections for the President of the Republic. At that time, it would be incomparably more understandable and then someone could say that your intention is not to delay the elections suddenly, that, at any cost, you are trying to avoid the elections at this time because of the political moment, especially because of the fact that it is perfectly clear to you that Mr Nikolic would win. I didn't answer in the previous line, now I'm going to have a chance to add that, about representing the country in the world. Don't worry about representing the country in the world. It will be represented in the best possible way by Mr Nikolic. It will be represented by working together with everyone, but at the same time protecting national and national interests. As for those who mentioned Iraq, the BAAS party of Saddam Hussein, etc., I just have to tell them - that we're not talking about others, especially that they're not talking about Mr. Seselj, who's not in a position to answer them, because they sent him to The Hague with a made-up indictment - I was in Iraq twice, I spoke at the Baghdad conference, I was saying what I thought, what I mean today, and I'm not ashamed of any of my own words, but I wasn't there alone. Together with me were the ones you say today are Europeans, they're good and we're black and we're bad. Along with me, at the same hotel, at the Mansur Melia Hotel, he was also a representative of the DSS and a representative of the SPS. We were at the same hotel at the same conference. Some of them got a louder round of applause, to tell you the truth, which I was very sorry for. Don't use fiction and false information to accuse the SRS, because unlike others, we're not ashamed of what we've been doing. On the contrary, we pride ourselves and have always supported freedom, the free spirit, and we think that there is no more important and more than freedom.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u349	Mr Karaicic, just a moment, if you agree, to ask Mr Pajtic if he still insists that the Administrative Committee be heard, because we have two examples where Mrs Natasa Micic chaired, from 30 October and 31 October 2003 and from 22 July 2003. "The chairman: This concludes today's work and continues the session on Monday 3 November at 10.00 hours," without explanation. Since 22 July 2003: "I thank Mr. Minister. On the basis of Article 81(4), I'm setting tomorrow as a working day, so we're continuing the debate. Also, I'm setting tomorrow and voting day at the same time. Have a good time and thank you for your patience." So you're staying? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u350	The Honorable Chairman, these maneuvers are not taking us anywhere. So, if we have asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to be established on the Administrative Board, I ask that a breach of the Rules of Procedure be established and if there have been violations in any period in the Serbian history of parliamentaryism or the previous term of office of the Assembly, it cannot justify you breaking the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u351	So we're staying with the decision. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Cvetkovic has to come out as the rapporteur of the Administrative Board. He doesn't have to. Mr. Karaicic, go ahead, and know that the DSS and its four speakers have 31 minutes left. The other speakers are running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u352	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you as an MP for the People's Democratic Party, from the DSS list. We will support this item of the agenda, as well as the next point - fifth in a row, because we think it is necessary for this area to be settled and to prevent any possible kind of abuse. Based on the presentations that have been made here, it is clear that the Constitution on this matter is inconsistencies. That's what Mr. Aligrudić explained very nicely. On that basis, every other interpretation, according to us, is unnecessary and not true. So if that's the case, then it's V.D. The president, unless the president has been elected, remains the right to choose a deadline after which he can call or fail to call the presidential elections. This has led to great abuses in the past. In a serious state, where serious people take care of it, it doesn't happen, because every void in the law or in the Constitution doesn't get abused. But if you have a bad authority that only takes care of itself, then that void can also be the reason that the elections are stalled and that they're longing. Therefore, if the adoption of this proposal would set a maximum period of 60 days, that abuse would be prevented. That is the most important reason to vote for this proposal. I would just remind you that in the past, Ms Micic, by order of DOS MPs, knows which DOS MPs, has used this right to first forge the course of elections, and despite being convinced, a sufficient number of citizens have gone to elections and with the help of the Electoral Commission and with the help of the lists that have been forged convinced citizens that the number has not crossed 50%. Based on the subsequent insight, it was very clear that this number was over 50 percent the first time, but that was unfortunately impossible to prove. I repeat again, every authority that takes care of itself and not of the state has, with the help of such gaps in the Constitution and the law, the possibility of committing abuse. I say again, this prevents it. Also, those who say that this point is necessary and that it needs to be thrown out because at the fifth point of the census, they are wrong, because no one can know whether this point will be adopted or not. Who knows, maybe someone quits, maybe doesn't get adopted, and because of that, prevention is really necessary to adopt this point. When we talk about who will win, and we have heard these days that it is almost certain that the winner is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I would just remind you that no one can know who will win. Mr. Marijan Risticevic, perhaps someone else, may win, but what is quite clear: so far, in all elections for the president of Serbia who were directly, as of October 5th, always the same man, and this is the president of the DSS, Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. I really don't have any reason not to believe that this would happen again if these elections were called, and they will be called, so be absolutely convinced. It will be called in 60 days, when this legislative proposal is adopted. If that were not the case, it would remain a 50% censorship, which would be a major obstacle for these elections to be conducted properly. That would lead us, you know, to the great cost that no one wants. So we need to be provided in the right way and we are going to support this agenda point. They say the radicals are the strongest, that they are strong and that their victory is almost certain. It is true that you have the most MPs in this assembly, but you may not know why you have the most MPs. I'll tell you. You have the most MPs because we didn't attack you enough in the campaign. We attacked the Democratic Party because they were in power and because they were the biggest obstacle to change in this country, but do not be convinced that during the next campaign we will not pay attention to you and convince the citizens that you are not an alternative and that you are no better than we are. Be assured that whoever we're attacking didn't have a good time so far, whoever it is. So be assured, because we're going to fight very hard, very argumentatively, and we're going to use every possible opportunity and chance to convince the citizens that we're right. Be assured of that. You used this pay phone these days for a kind of campaign, and it's totally fine, but it's not right to attack colleagues to break the Rules of Procedure or the agenda, and you were the ones who talked about everything, but just not about the agenda. You were talking about gold and copper in Bora, the incursions to the Ub municipality, you were talking about a million other things, and that's why no one bothered you or called you. That kind of abuse is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If we are talking about respect for the Rules of Procedure, I ask you, who are constantly calling on morale, and morally not what has to be, but what is conscience, in the future when you talk about some point of the agenda, keep the agenda, not to mention things like the government, like anything else that isn't on the agenda. You want power, and I believe there aren't two-thirds of the MPs here who can go out on their own for this pay phone and say what they want and want. (President: Please, Mr Karaicic, there is no reason to insult the MPs of any parliamentary group. That's my opinion. You are talking about Vlasotin, Djoša and 50% in Vlasotinc, and you know for yourself that the election was not won by the chairman of the board in Vlasotinc, not by anyone else, but by Mr. Seselj, Toma Nikolic or Vučić, but don't call on them when it comes to any municipality in Serbia, but say we don't have better people, we are a party with five people. How can such a party have power? He can't. (President: I ask all MPs for proper conduct, there will be a clear replica, and once again, Mr Karaicic, please, without insulting the MPs. Stick to the subject. That's my opinion. Here for these months, it's not full, as long as the sessions last, said a lot, but probably the best statement, in the sense that it's been characterising for the past ten years, came from Mr Tomislav Nikolic's mouth. He, if I recall correctly, in a replica I don't know who from the DS, seems to me to Mr Tadic, said - no, we supported the minority government in 1993, and you supported, so DS, 1995. That's the point. And the Radicals and DS supported the SPS, each at its own time, when the SPS was very strong, powerful, while we and the DSS fought all the forces to bring that regime down; and if it wasn't for us, today you wouldn't be 82 here and you 37. The only party that has not co-operated publicly or secretly with the SPS is the DSS and those who did not exist at the time. When you speak, please finish, it's all true, about the government don't attack a government that hasn't been formed yet, and know well that if it happens, don't let God, that this government doesn't succeed in what has to be done there won't be anyone good in this country and no one will be able to correct what the SPS has done for ten years and DOS for three years. You know as much as I do and I ask you to keep that in mind because of the citizens of Serbia, not just because of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u353	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, replica. Mr. Pitch after Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask Mr. Karaicic to come out more often for a pay phone. We'll have 150 MPs in two months, not 90. There is, however, one serious thing, one statement that some would compare, I don't want to do it, because I don't think Mr. Karaicic may have gone a little too far, maybe something happened to him, it's not exactly what he meant -- a statement of fascist content, but I don't think he wanted it to be. Something happened to him while he was behind the pay phone, which is the fact that he accused, attacked and insulted Serbian Radical Party MPs in an indirect manner, calling them stupid, such as or such, unable to willingly go out for a pay phone, two-thirds of Serbian Radical Party MPs; it insulted 800,000 voters in Serbia, but showed that he was not a man above all. This is where the MPs of all occupations sit. (President: Mr. Wolf, the same rule applies to you. When I said, Mr. Markovic, that he wasn't human, you know what I mean. Not in the sense that he's not a human being, but that he doesn't have such a quality. These two-thirds or all SRS MPs are different professions, age, gender structures, social structures. In our parliamentary club, Serbia is represented, from workers to professors, doctors, lawyers, economists and all others, and this is the best SRS had, this is what the people of Serbia voted for and don't insult the people of Serbia ever again. Mr. Karaicic says we got so many MPs because he and his men didn't attack us. Here's how scared we are – we already ordered 10 kilos of these antidepressant pills. We don't know what to do in the next period of fear. We don't know what we're going to do with ourselves, it's so hard for us, we're afraid of attacks by Mr. Karaicic and the DSS people. Now, you'll be able to attack us for anything, Mr. Karaičić, to make up, to say stupid things, to tell the truth, to say whatever it is you think of, but you'll never be able to attack us for Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, for organized mobsters, and we will, Mr. Karaičić. We want you and your political party, and don't worry, Mr. Karaicic, in those elections... (President: Mr. Wolf, you've run out of time, be kind, honor the word. I'm done, Mr. Markovic. Don't worry, the more you attack us and the more often you come out for a pay phone, the more frequent the bill's proposals will be for you, the SRS... It is no accident that you ordered some to move Serbian radicals out of the premises for March 3rd. As her first move, the new government decided to get the radicals out of the room. Throw it out, but we'll beat you even more convincingly than you'd ever hoped.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u355	Just a moment, first Mr. Pajtic is entitled to a replica, mentioned earlier by the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u356	Your Honors Chairman, I think your obligation was, as chairman, to inform Mr. Karaicic that he is making a sound in this room. I pray as God of Mr. Karaičić to appear on every agenda point and to attack the Democratic Party. There's no better commercials for the Democratic Party than when Mr. Karaicic was attacked. And I agree, Mr. Karaicic, the Democratic Party is an obstacle to change. The change is seen at this time in what your party is introducing a list of the Socialist Party of Serbia – Slobodan Milosevic, at a large door, into political life in Serbia. What will result in this change and what the party has done over a period of ten years for this country – it has destroyed in biological, economic, financial and other terms. And believe me, the Democratic Party will be very quick to oppose such a change.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u357	Here you go, Mr. Dacic. Just a second, Mr. Dacic, is that a replica – on? You'll just wait a minute, please, Mr. Ristivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u358	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to invite from this pay phone only to a slightly more constructive approach here in the debates. We heard a switch in the presentation of one of the previous speakers, when he insulted the distinguished colleagues, the MPs of the other party, and at the same time we heard the distinguished representative of the other party insult that first speaker, so I think they did some compensation for the insults and that it might stop at that. We need to move forward with a more constructive approach to this debate and act the way I called you when I spoke earlier, which is to vote both this and the next bill, which are compatible, which are complementary. I'd also like to point out from this pay phone that the DSS has absolutely nothing to do with what you're talking about, Mr. Wolfie, about getting out of your rooms. I want to point it out right now -- we don't have anything to do with it, please, I'm building on it, and if it's not difficult, please come out for a pay phone and you say it, we really don't have anything to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u359	Mr. Dacic, replica. I'm really asking the Parliament not to do compensatory work with insults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u360	I answered the question about Mr. Pitiæ's exposure. It is obvious that the Democratic Party election assembly is approaching. I was surprised by his story, given that the SPS-Freedan Milosevic election list supported his candidate, Boris Tadic. I also have to say that there were some of our boards in the interior that were for Zoran Zivkovic, but we have held further consultations with the Freedom Association and the definitive position is to support Boris Tadic, on behalf of the SPS-Freedan Milosevic election list. But in every joke, of course, there's "a little joke," it's really tragic that a party that has been a symbol of lawlessness, theft, dictatorship, theft of parliament and theft of mandates in these three years is here giving someone a lesson. Mr. Pitiæu, your government received 20% of the votes of those who went to the polls. Deal with that fact. You, in a few days, are coming down from the political scene of Serbia, leaving the opposition, coming down from power, and asking you to accept it with dignity, since you have never received it with dignity, you have never come to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u361	Thank you. We're continuing the search. Mr. Vojkan Tomic answered for the word, and have Mr. Dusan Prorokovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u362	Dear People's MPs, a lot of passion has been brought into these speeches in the past 15 minutes. I'd like to go back on the subject and say something about the reasons for a bill like this. Simply, in the previous period, thanks to the previous president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and at that time v.d. President of the Republic, we had an unconstitutional state, and we had the will of the lady who took on herself and in her own hands the opportunity to call the election for the president when she wanted it, or when she and her mentors did so. So, what happened then? It has come to call for consultations of the then candidate for President Micunovic, to consult with him on calling parliamentary elections. Then we asked the question publicly – well, why didn't you invite other candidates, both Mr Nikolic and Mr Marijan Rističević and all the other candidates? However, this pride and self-will of the lady, who, unfortunately, is not here, who can't replicate to me, was so much so that this lawlessness and unconstitutional state lasted so long. We have cited constitutional reasons why such a law should be passed and this is very clear in Article 87(7). The constitution, where it is said that the election for the president, as an invitation, is governed by law. So far, we have only had two provisions in the Constitution that spoke of the election of the President of the Republic. The first is when his mandate expires, and that is 30 days, and the second is where the tax reasons are taxed in case his term of office expires before the time, which is 60 days. In this way, with this bill of law, we suggest that there is no longer a situation where anyone sitting in this place where Mr. Markovic can now have in his hands powers stronger than the Constitution and the law, and in this way we want to remove this legal void. We've heard the argument of the Lord of the SRS, and to a large extent it's justified. But what I don't understand, and our list too, is this -- why are they in such a hurry; they propose a law that eliminates a 50% censorship, and they say that these elections should have already been called. Well, if they were scheduled, they'd have a 50% censorship, and then we'd have a failed election again. We made it very clear at the beginning of the discussion on this point that we will support their bill and that this does not question the survival of this bill. But perhaps the gentlemen of the radicals are in a hurry because they are afraid of the great majority their candidate has, so that they may not melt in the meantime. But you shouldn't be afraid if it's such a privilege for your candidate, nothing will melt over 60 days, unless, of course, something big happens in the meantime. So, I suggest you don't be afraid at all, the election will be called. In the end, I would like to commend the Democratic Party's position, or the Democratic Party's list -- Boris Tadic, who supported this bill, because this is a major step towards what they had earlier when they were leading the main word and mentoring Ms. Natasa Micic. This is indeed a major progress and we still expect a constructive approach to the Democratic Party list - Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u363	The word has Dusan Prorokovic, and let Miss Milica Gavrilovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u364	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I do not understand the need of certain MPs, I do not know how problems are being sought, and even where there are no problems, unless, in a good way, SRS MP Mr Antic of Jagodina explained it when he said that we have demeaned you, because we have put our proposal as the third item of the agenda, and your proposal is the fourth, and then it is about vanity, it is not about the essential problem of one amendment and the addition of the law. And in this proposal, I don't see where the real problem is. I'll try to explain why. First, because the Constitutional Court decision de facto extorted one such solution, and according to the Constitutional Court's decisions, we must direct ourselves. Secondly, because the SRS bill, which we will also support in this part, was flawed and had certain shortcomings. We wanted to make a proposal that was compatible, that would fix it. Thirdly, I agree with Mr. Vukic that the Constitution knows two situations -- either we have a president or we have a presidential election. However, this is the third situation. We don't have a president, we don't have a presidential election. We don't have a president because of the failed presidential elections that were organised last November. The constitution does not know this situation, there is a legal gap in our legislation and we want to do so elegantly in order to overcome it, in agreement with all other parliamentary parties. We want this situation resolved, we want the president as soon as possible. Our opinion is that it's an optimal deadline for 60 days. And why 60 days? Be careful, according to the applicable law, the right to vote in the presidential elections is determined by the Law on the Selection of MPs, right? Yes, it is. One of the next items of the agenda is the Law on the Selection of MPs. One of the changes to the law proposed by the DSS is to allow for smooth voting, for example, powerless or prevented persons in homes where they live. Why don't we allow a certain deadline and agree on the date of the election, settle this issue the right way that it's arranged in other countries and allow those who are powerless or prevented from voting in their homes. We want to end the censorship, don't deceive the public and speak, some MPs came out here and said we won't end the censorship. We will, I repeat, the DSS will vote in favour of the SRS' proposal to abolish the censorship. Serbia just has to get the president, so whoever it is. If someone is better than our candidate, if it is, as you say, Tomislav Nikolic, we will give him a hand, offer correct co-operation in the interests of the state, we will not cause any problems, there will be no interference in future DSS procedures. We will do everything to win our candidate, normally in those legal frameworks and in everything that is our democratically legitimate right. However, if you win, it is certain that we will give you a hand, do not worry. If someone else wins, it's no problem. However, you are now accusing the DSS, or vice president of the DSS and the National Assembly president of not calling the election in time. If he had called the election, say, it would have remained a censorship and the elections would have failed, so in two months, you would have been accusing the DSS again of why the elections failed. We have proposed this precisely because the elections would certainly succeed, so that all institutions, one by one, in Serbia, would be taken care of and that we would not forever put aside the issue of the absence of the president of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, we conduct ourselves fully consistent and principled, just as we are consistently and in principle acting in this congregation. You will notice, yesterday and the day before, the MPs of some parties sat in this room, didn't want to put their identification cards into the MPs' units, they didn't want to provide a quorum for discussion. We never complained about the Rules of Procedure once. Why? Because it's our view that most have to secure the quorum. The right of minority in every parliament, Italian, French, Belgian, is to knock down the quorum, not to allow most to make a decision. It is your right, gentlemen, and the MPs of the SRS and the MPs of the DS. Not a single time when we propose a decision and it's us who provide the quorum, which is why we won't transfer you. We have submitted this legislative proposal, we have received a majority for this legislative proposal, among other things thanks to Mr Boris Tadic, thank him for his constructiveity, and we will provide the same construction tomorrow when the SRS proposal is discussed and discussed. We will give a quorum at that session, we will vote in favour of this proposal, because we are deeply convinced that such a constructive approach is the only way for Serbia to get the institutions it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u365	He's got Miss Milica Gavrilovic's word. I'm sorry, I didn't see you, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u366	First of all, I would ask you, Mr. Markovic, not to use the pay phone when you're talking about some compensatory business, because I didn't insult anyone, I just said that he's not a good man and that he can't say something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u367	Mr. Vucic, I was just responding to a sentence that compensation is done with insults, a sentence by the deputy head of the DSS parliamentary group, I have not responded to you, I beg your pardon and please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u368	I'd like to point out a few things. First I will talk a little bit about what Mr. Prophetovic was talking about, and then I will invite you to do something that we should have done and we should have met the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the public of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, Mr. Prophetovich, we can only reach one political agreement here and we offer it to you from this pay phone. What we have offered, we have offered only to you, to anyone else in this room, you have refused; it is contrary to the wishes and will of the citizens of Serbia, it has already been over, but we think that we are representatives of Serbian citizens who obviously... So, we on the one hand, DB plus SPS on the other and make that match, political agreement, Tomislav Nikolic against Vojislav Kostunica. Don't point out someone else's strongest, to make such a gentleman's agreement, so Tomislav Nikolic v Vojislav Kostunica, who will be supported by all your forces, Tomislav Nikolic will support the SRS, that we go with it. There was a choice in those 2000s, so it's best to figure out how much that's changed. Now wouldn't be a five-fold difference for Tomislav Nikolic, but I believe that about two or two-and-a-half times the vote would get Tomislav Nikolic. We offer you, so that we do not bid now, that we do not speak the results instead of the citizens of Serbia, I think the most honest one is an honest and fair offer, namely, to make a deal and agree with it, and we would agree, Serbian citizens. They'd know to choose between twice, they'd know to choose the way of hope and the future, and on the other hand, the way of DB. Let the people and citizens of Serbia plead, and that is the best solution. Come out after me, find a business opportunity, come out and just say the word - we accept or do not accept such an offer from the SRS. Do not go out with a weaker candidate, because after that you will tell us - Tomislav Nikolic beat someone who is not Vojislav Kostunica. No, we want Toma Nikolic to beat your strongest candidate, to defeat Vojislav Kostunica, and that is what the people and citizens of Serbia want. If it's going to be the way I think it is, it stays to be seen. Don't talk about the reasons for the vanity being imposed on us against this bill of law. It is not a vain reason why we (maybe indeed) are not discussing and not talking about our text of the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, because we have promised, especially as someone who has received huge support in Kosovo and Metohija in the Serb population. (President: Mr. Wolf, the theme of replica and time has passed. Be kind, you're already being abused. It's been three minutes. I'll finish. So, two people were killed today in Lebanon, Kosovo and Metohija; we should have discussed it, and that would interest more people than the choice of Radovan Jelasic in an illegal way or I don't know what. We even proposed a bill on legalisation, privatisation and that should be spoken of. I just want to point out what's very important to you, Mr. Markovic. I would ask you to call on the Vice-President of the Administrative Board of Mr Cvetkovic to meet the Serbian Assembly with the decision of the Administrative Board yesterday, which has had a significant impact on the course of this session, and I would say that there has been a falsification of the will in the material of the Administrative Committee that we have received. In advance, I will say, since Mr Cvetkovic signed something in which he said – the Committee did not decide on the way this injury would be corrected, or removed, since it did not affect the course of the debate. That's not what the Management Board said. That board of directors didn't decide yesterday, and I'm asking you to correct this forgeries, to change that. If that's not possible, or if someone says it's not true, that it's not true what I said, we're going to ask for the record from the session itself, to see who's right, who's telling the truth and who's not, but we insist on this. It is important to know that the Rules of Procedure were injured yesterday and that the Administrative Board made such a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u369	First replica, Mr. Aligrudic. Otherwise, not to deceive the public, MPs are familiar with this decision, because everyone got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u370	Mr Dusan Proroković, the MP, spoke briefly on the subject of the agenda point, talked about the bill we had submitted, and when the controversy spoke about the need to create a compromise on the creation of such legislative proposals that govern a very important area, which is electoral legislation. The way he spoke didn't deserve this kind of replica of Mr. Vukic. So, it is fitting to replicate every discussion of DSS MPs and to draw up a political point, to talk about other things behind that, which have nothing to do with what MP Dusan Prorokovic said. I would really ask you to stick to the subject, and if it turns out in the discussion of good will to talk about it in a professional and valid way and in a compromise way, this really doesn't make sense. Every replica of SRS MP turns into a discussion that leads to a mini-election campaign for the president of the Republic of Serbia before the time, because the presidential elections are not even called. That's what we've been hearing all day. As far as these stories are concerned, who would win the election, who would go to the duel with whom, etc., that's the thing for the future. When the presidential elections are discussed, and hopefully that'll be very soon, then we'll talk about who's going to the duel with. We'll see who's gonna be the candidate in those presidential elections. After all, you're giving us advances on who your candidate will be. All right, you have the right to do that. You may have made a decision by the party authorities in advance. It's your inside thing, okay, I don't mind. But in any case, as far as what has been so far, the election results so far, the election parameters are unequivocal in that direction. So, Vojislav Kostunica has so far been an incomparable presidential candidate, who has won, in an objective sense, the most votes in all the presidential elections that have been called so far and which he has participated in. Therefore, this is not disputed and please do not in this sense abuse this pay phone anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u371	There's no replica on the replica. The word is Miss Milica Gavrilovic. While I run the session, I will try to follow all the rules and it will apply to all the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, is an expression of the greatest responsibility for Serbian citizens, because it is precisely such a law that allows them to reach the president as soon as possible. Serbia has not had a president since 29 December 2002. So the state doesn't have a boss. I don't know if it's important or not, but to the Democratic Party of Serbia, as strangers who are always in favour of the existence of institutions, and how important it is. We don't have a president just because in the current Law on Elections, we have a legal void, and we have a legal void because the Constitutional Court made a decision declaring one member of the Law unconstitutional, and that member of the Law was exactly the one who said that the President of the Assembly could do it himself, in his personal opinion and personal desire to say whether it was good for Serbia to have a president or not. The DOS regime, which at that time had a majority and of course the National Assembly President, Mrs Natasa Micic, decided mostly that Serbia does not need a president, because it does not matter to them. The DSS, as a responsible party to Serbian citizens and voters who voted for it, is therefore proposing a solution that offers to overcome the emerging situation. We say – Serbia must have a president. We say -- the president of the National Assembly of Elections must call within 60 days of the day of his election or within 60 days of the day when the elections that have ended have failed. We are also in favour of abolishing the censorship, what the SRS proposal represents, for abolishing the censorship as the only culprit why Serbia spent 15m euros in just three days, more specifically, by the government. Maybe for someone in this room 15 million euros isn't big money. For the DSS, as a very responsible party and as a party that is considered modest, this amount is also very large. It is particularly great in the situation when we know how bad it is living in Serbia, especially when we know what that money could be spent on. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not predict and does not know the expression – failed elections. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is given the right to vote, vote on them and elect the President of the Republic. The voter's will does not confirm or deny the existence of the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia. That is not even the constitutional purpose of the elections themselves, because elections are being debated not to confirm institutions, but to personalise the institution, just to elect a president. The lack of a president of the Republic of Serbia shows the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. The whole time we had a situation so we could see that those relationships weren't consistent. Some of my predecessors from this pay phone say that this bill is not under the Constitution, and to explain it to me they say - it is not by the Constitution because our strongest candidate, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, cannot win this bill. If they convinced you of their claim, they certainly didn't. Gentlemen of the Radicals, there is no law on the criteria of those who think that they are leading to current public opinion surveys, nor when it suits a leader or party, but only and exclusively, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Such a bill of law shows it for its own good. By passing such a law, we are in a situation where citizens from our region, from other countries in the international community, no longer call us citizens of the decapitated state, some banana-state, and therefore I call on all representatives of different political parties, who during the pre-election campaign, to say how important it is for Serbia to get institutions, to vote for such a bill, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u373	Since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, and has applied on behalf of the promoter, to use his other 10 minutes, Mr Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u374	As a representative of the parliamentary group. In this final presentation, I will not practically repeat much of what I said in the opening statement, when we discussed the proposal for this law, but there will be a few references to what the discussion was about these two days as we discussed this bill. I'll remind you of one thing. We have had the opportunity to hear that the Constitution knows only two possibilities: one is that we have the President of the Republic, and the other is that we do not have it. These, if we don't have a President of the Republic, it's natural for the exit to be sought in the election call for the President of the Republic. It's totally undeniable. But I'd like to remind you of something else. When we read the text of the Constitution, we have to read it by connecting the provisions between ourselves and connecting the attitudes in one provision of the Constitution. In Article 87. The constitution, where we have found the constitutional basis for the submission of this bill, states explicitly: "The election process and the recall of the President of the Republic is regulated by law". What does this provision of the Constitution mean? She says explicitly that everything that is not said directly in the Constitution on the election procedure of the President of the Republic is governed by law. There is no single word in this Constitution, not a single word about a situation called a failed election for the President of the Republic. Therefore, we can very clearly interpret what the provision of article 87 of the last position, attitude 7, when it says this, is governed by law by the election procedure for the President of the Republic. What are the laws? It is, above all, the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which directly regulates the matter of the election of the President of the Republic. There is another law - Law on the selection of Members of the People, whose provisions are subsidizedly applied to the election of the President of the Republic, because the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic does not contain all provisions governing the election procedure. Therefore, we are accordingly applying another law in the process of electing the President of the Republic. Repeat very briefly, the constitution does not foresee the possibility of a presidential election failure, and the best evidence for this is when this law was first passed on the election of the President of the Republic, which was later changed by amendments and additions, at the time, too, the law originally did not provide for the possibility that the presidential elections would fail. Only later, after the elections, which our colleagues from the SRS know were the elections, this matter is being edited differently, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic is being adopted and the concept of unsuccessful presidential elections in that law is being introduced, and a provision under which the President of the National Assembly is to be laid down within 60 days of the date on which the failed elections are held is to be decided on the calling of presidential elections. I recall, further, there was a harsh abuse of that provision by former Serbian Parliament Speaker Natasa Micic, who made political and political reasons to interpret the provision in such a way that it discreetly decides whether or not to call the presidential elections at all, which was, of course, inadmissible. And in order to end the round of the debate, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, in September of last year, declared it unconstitutional. What the DSS bill contains is repeating that 60-day deadline for calling elections only by erasing the words that bring confusion to the whole thing, which is - the decision of the president of the National Assembly. The elections are held and must be called within that time limit. Of course, since there is no other basis of the Constitution, a direct basis, and the Constitution directly and explicitly refers to the law, then by law this matter has to be regulated. This was practically the only way, we can talk about it professionally as much as we want, but in my deep conviction, this is the only way to bridge this gap. We could have talked about that deadline being 30 days, 15 days, he's 60 days for a simple reason, it shouldn't be forgotten, the president of the National Assembly wasn't elected yesterday or today, he was elected a few days ago. When we talk about this deadline, we already have to determine that one good part of this deadline has passed. When this law comes into force, we, Malten, will be half this time. There's no danger of postponing the presidential election. That's the first and the most basic thing. However, and this is where the pre-election campaign to elect the President of the Republic was heard before the elections were called. In the heat of this pre-election campaign for one, we heard, almost certain candidates for the president of the Republic of Serbia, the other party was accused, i.e. the party proposing that it had some strange or evil political intentions when submitting this bill, and that, to God, it wanted to make their candidate's term as vice-president of the National Assembly take long enough to make it impossible for another candidate, who would potentially win those elections, to play his part. That's not true. The motive here is not political in that sense. And if there's a political motive, and I found out there's one here in our proposal, I'll give it to you today. What's he got to do with it? In order to discuss the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, whose provisions are subsidically applied, that is to say, to the election of the President of the Republic. These are the first choices that come to us. In the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, we have proposed, as the DSS, a certain newspaper, and this paper concerns the expansion of the circle of persons who have the right to vote, whose right so far has been disabled. Besides, it's diaspora. It provides for these provisions to make a special record of these voters. The process of making that record is foreseen. A transitional provision has been provided to speak about what will happen if the election is called before the special record is made. This procedure takes some time. Therefore, if we accepted the proposal of those MPs who advocate that elections be called immediately, then we would be left very little time to comply with these two norms. I'm not saying it will happen for sure, but it could happen that way to prevent our citizens, our citizens abroad, our diaspora from exercising their right to vote. It's the only real political motive, the serious political motive the DSS had when it was considering a 60-day deadline to call these elections. It is possible that this deadline is given as much and cautiously as possible that this thing could be packed in a shorter time, but it was only given for that reason, for the reason of that motive. There was no other political motive in this case. If we differ as to whether or not the diaspora should be given the right to vote in the elections, that is another question. In this regard, we can differ, and then we should also tell the people, so that it is known that the DSS advocates the general right to vote, the same right to vote, and that general and equal right to vote among all citizens of Serbia and among those of our citizens who are not in a position to vote, because they are not currently in our country. Therefore, I ask you not to run a pre-election presidential campaign for this speaker, but to consider the real reasons for the submission of this bill, that it is both constitutional and in accordance with the legal system, that a certain kind of complement to the radical bill, which the DSS will vote on. I ask you to vote for this bill, because in this way we will not only close the gap in the legal system, but we will help continue the electoral procedure in Serbia to take place uninterruptedly and in the interest of all Serbian citizens who have the right to vote and those who do not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u375	Thank you, replica, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we listened to, I would say, all day long as DSS MPs responded to the objections of Serbian radicals, and here, in the end, we heard the real information and something the Serbian radicals pointed to, and that is, if you're already setting such a deadline, why that deadline is not three days or seven days, why it's 60 days. We haven't heard from anyone else until now why that deadline would be 60 days, why it would go long. Now, let's see what Mr. Aligrudic said. It's because of the fact that we have to make special records, lists of voters abroad and see where, how, and other technical jobs to be done about voting those living in the diaspora. That's what we're going to talk about with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. First, how do you know how, how and how long it takes to make these ballots; how and how will control be solved? Tell me who's going to control it, if you vote exclusively in those places and with the control of diplomatic and consular representatives, etc. If that is the case, if you think that Goran Svilanovic, Vuk Draskovic or anyone else is sending you these lists or envelopes, the way they used to come from the barracks and from the prison, then we won't and we can't accept it in any way. That's why we don't think this deadline should have been extended, so let the presidential elections be held according to these rules, with reduced censorship. It would be much more logical and show how and how we can establish institutions in the Republic of Serbia and how it can function incomparably better than it has been before. One more thing to tell you, you keep talking about SRS MPs as someone who runs an election campaign for their presidential candidate. Yes, it's true, we have a presidential candidate we expect to win from. Of course, we expect that trust from the citizens of Serbia and we do not hide it. But all the time your MPs have been campaigning for their party president, or I don't know what the mandate or presidential candidate is going to be, we hope, and they haven't talked about the bill all the time, but they've been talking about the SRS all the time. It was their only target and their only topic. We don't mind that. We see clearly and clearly what your political problem is, what you will face and who you will face politically and not run away from it. Do not object to the opposition, and it is obvious that you have formed the ruling majority in this assembly of DSS, G17 plus, SPO-NS and SPS, and for this law and DS. (President: Mr. Wolfie, can we stick to time? I'm done. So you can do that, but don't forbid us to use this as a pay phone for political advances. That's our job, people. That's what we do. The election is over, we're getting ready for the next election; our program, our legal projects, our amendments, we're explaining it from this pay phone. That's what we do, that's what we do, and that's what we always do. We invite you not to accept this legal project. I'm sorry that Mr. Markovic denied us the right to use the rest of our time, because we were allowed to do so yesterday. That allowed us even Natasha Micic, but what to do, such times came, democracy seems to win in different ways. However, I would like once again to invite all MPs in the Serbian Parliament to vote against this proposal, because then we would probably force Mr. Marsican to call the elections, and Serbia would finally get a host at her head, who would represent her both in the country and in the world and, of course, Mr. Prophetovic, it will be Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u377	Mr. Prophetovich, replica, then Mr. Mihajlov. Mr. Wolfie, please once again, you have no reason to deceive the public. A moment ago, Miss Jovanovic came in and asked to be additionally entered, past the rules, to apply the discretionary right of the chairman. I already did it yesterday. Here, it says here in Latin, it's Gordana Pop-Lazic, but she quit, because today she has an amendment. When a parliamentary group does not refer to an SRS, which, however, takes advantage of its time, because it has not tactically deployed it, I really have no intention to subsequently violate the Rules of Procedure out of political interests and I will not use my discretionary right to make it possible for any political campaign. Mr. Prophet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u378	Mr. Wolfie, I wouldn't want to move any further with you. I said something that seems to me to have been told for the first time by one of the MPs who belongs to the headquarters that forms the ruling majority. I said, one, that the minority has the right to boycott the work of this assembly, because it is allowed in most of the parliaments in Europe, and that just as a minority has the right, most have the obligation to secure the quorum. The party I belong to will never resent what previous authorities have resented when you were in opposition, from Milosevic to Zivkovic. There's no problem, you'll have a proper relationship with us here. I said something else: this party will never steal you from the presidential election. Whoever wins the presidential election, we won't be obstructing his inauguration, we won't be obstructing the election procedure. We'll give you a hand if Mr Tomislav Nikolic wins, and if he will, we'll see, about that later, the election will be called, the campaign will go. We'll give you a hand, invite you to constructive co-operation in the interest of all parliamentary parties and states. The correct position of the DSS, please don't abuse your cheap political propaganda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u379	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 89? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. You want after the search in particular or now? As a promoter, Mr. Dejan Mihajlov. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Who is the promoter, Aligrudić or him?) ) Mr Aligrudic is a representative of the parliamentary group, and the motion for this act is Mr Dejan Mihajlov. (Alexander Vucic, from the post: You said Aligrudić is the promoter. ) He is a representative of the parliamentary group at point 4. Yesterday, at the beginning of the session, the announcement was shared to everyone, referring to Mr Pajtic, Mr Aligrudic. These were two notices that were given at the beginning of the session. Mr. Michael, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u380	If we have corrected this little misunderstanding, I would like to conclude that this debate has shown that there can be an answer to the legal gap that exists in our Constitution, which is how to resolve the issue of unsuccessful presidential elections. This debate, as many as some have resisted the lack of a mechanism in the existing Constitution to solve this problem, has shown that there is no mechanism and that the solutions offered by others are not adequate and do not answer the question of what we do when we have three rounds of failed presidential elections, whether we go to the fourth round and spend more money, we waste more time, or we will find an answer to when and within what time the presidential elections are discussed after the three rounds fail. Given all the circumstances relating to political life in Serbia, that parties who do not have candidates are calling for a boycott and thus obstructing the success of the presidential election, we are in a position that at this point the best solution is what is present in many neighbouring countries that have a direct choice of president, which is that there is no censorship to elect a president in the first round. Our law resolves the question within what time, when and who calls the elections after the failed elections. The bill defined the presidential elections by the president of the assembly within 60 days of the assembly's constitution and election. With this law, the DSS solves the legal gap, and this law allows Serbia to finally get the president, after 14 months of agony in which Serbia finds itself, violent abuses and violations of the Constitution and abuse of rights, Serbia will win the election it will win. Who will depend on the will of the citizens and the DSS always respects the will of the citizens, whether it goes hand in hand or not, but the will of the citizens must be respected. It is precisely with this bill, with the SRS bill that abolishs the censorship, and the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the election of MPs, which brings our citizens living abroad to an equal position, that allows them to vote, that we get an adequate political system, which will allow citizens to be respected in the best possible way, that Serbia gets the president and that all citizens who are citizens, who are voters, are in a position to vote in these elections. This is where we think of our citizens who are experiencing circumstances outside the state. And this law is an opportunity to solve a part of the problem we have. It is also necessary to appreciate a constructive approach, particularly those that in some earlier times have made it impossible for the president to choose by refusing to lift the censorship, primarily DS and Boris Tadic, who will accept with a constructive debate to support this bill and thus allow the elections to be discussed within 60 days. It is good and it is for every praise at this point. What should also lead to these elections being called succeeding, is the adoption of a law that reduces censorship; judging by this debate, there are obviously enough MPs who will also vote to take down the censorship. I expect enough MPs to support the diaspora's right to vote in these elections and thus allow some of the wrongs that have been corrected before and then to get elections that can be said to be democratic, along with the sort of voter lists that are, with more than 800,000 incorrect entries in the voter lists, which will also be made possible by forming a new government of Serbia, when Serbia will receive a host in the Serbian government, as much as in the next ten days. We believe that by updating the voter lists, by adopting these three laws, we will come to the most democratic elections in Serbia since the introduction of a multi-party state. It is something that is a priority for the DSS, that all of these conditions are met and that we have had one of the most democratic elections; and whoever wins in those elections, who wins the highest confidence of the citizens, no one will ever be able to dispute it, whether they have gone out with the strongest candidates, the weakest candidates, but I would have the reckoning from this assembly pay phone that tries to impose something on the citizens of Serbia in the elections. They always knew that, and although there are those who once underestimated them and thought they could impose this or that, Serbian citizens know perfectly well what their political will is and what's best for them. This was also shown in these elections, and the DSS believes that the winner in each election is the one who takes over after these elections and the real winner in these elections will be seen in ten days.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u381	Thank you. Since there are no more registered under Article 89. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the principle of redundancies in accordance with Article 136(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I would like the motion of Parliamentarian Dean Michael to make a statement on this amendment. You don't accept. Does Gordana Pop-Lazic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although one of the speakers from the DSS MPs here respected how you would say this with a new speech, that laws are being passed in the interests of citizens, not when and how it works and whether the prospect of his candidate winning the election is possible and that we leave the impression of bananas - the state, I want to tell her that we are bananas - states, thanks to Vojislav Kostunica, who gave up continuity and introduced this country into the United Nations as the youngest state. It's a sad fact, but it is. I have submitted this amendment to Article 1, and I ask the chairman to tolerate, I need a little broader and more comprehensive story that I have, given that the law has only one member and practically has to be talked about the whole law, believing that such laws are mostly passed by political consensus if participants in political life have enough hearing about it. I think we all play with the patience of citizens, because, believe me, no one in Serbia is interested in these laws that we have on the agenda at this session, except us politicians who participate in political life. Then what were we supposed to do? We should have sat down before the session and agreed on what laws we would adopt and that this session would be a mere vote, as we voted on the composition of the electoral commission. We, the Serbian Radicals, took the first step in this regard and provided you with all the draft laws that we thought should be found at this first session, in addition to these electoral laws, other very important laws such as putting aside the law on lustration, the Law on the Construction of Objects (or, as popularly called, the Law on Legalisation) and amendments and additions to the Law of Privatisation. We asked you to give us your suggestions, tell us what you don't like, what you'd like to change. No one found a similar or written answer, and we were able to overcome all of this and not spend this precious time on this pay phone and play ball and talk about something that I repeat, nobody in Serbia but us is interested in. How did we miss that? Of course, we will continue the story another day on the bill submitted by the SRS, but the basic motive for the submission of this amendment is, above all, that we were one week before the DSS submitted this bill to the Assembly a bill amending the Law on the President of the Republic, deeming that the deadline for calling the elections has already been missed. Please, there is no question here why the elections have failed - I will talk about it more when I explain our bill - than why the President of the Assembly, the last one or the present one, did not use his powers and why he did not fulfil his obligation and call the elections? We were able to establish the Assembly on January 16th. That day, we could have chosen the president. On that same day, the president of the assembly could call the elections and keep it all under the constitution. Of course, here people say -- two lawyers, three opinions. We've been talking about this here for two days, most of the time, fellow lawyers have come forward and none of them wanted to notice that the Constitution practically predicts everything you're asking for by the bill. It's just an interpretation. So if you go through analogy and figure out what the Constitution wanted, and the Constitution wanted us to have the president of the state, the Assembly, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the courts, the public prosecutor's office, we have to have it at all times. Now, it takes you 60 days to postpone the election call - for what? Because you form a government. Tell the people well – because Vojislav Kostunica cannot be a prime minister at the same time, run a pre-election campaign and run for president of the state, because people will wonder – can this man really stand in all these roles. He can't. That's a problem for you, too. You don't have anyone else, gentlemen, who you'd like to point out as a candidate. It takes you two months to see first whether you'll form a government, whether there will be early elections. If they are not there, then for two months you will play the new government and decide whether to give Mr. Labus the post of prime minister, eventually, and if Kostunica is a candidate in the presidential election. These are your mutual, interpartisan matters and arrangements that we don't get into, but tell the people why we don't have a president for a year and a half. All of you here, except us, were in that DOS government. (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, just pay attention in time. ....................................................................................................... who practically supported that government, almost until the moment we shot down Serbia's government in parliament. So we believe that this bill is completely excessive, given that the SRS has submitted a much more comprehensive bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u383	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pittice?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u384	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marscanin, opposed to the Rules of Procedure, defined this day for the working day, but when so, then it is necessary for representatives of the new majority in this House to be present, at least in the number that is fundamentally decent and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, on the basis of Article 82(6), I request that the quorum be determined for further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u385	I ask the MPs to insert their cards, see if we have a quorum. We don't have a quorum. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing on the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. At the beginning of the session, please determine the quorum. Please insert your MP cards. We've done a search and I've concluded a search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the law on the election of the President of the Republic You have received a bill submitted by 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by MP Natasa Jovanovic. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted until the opening of the original search will be given to you during the session. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I remind you, the SRS has one hour of 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, DS-Boris Tadic 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPOS 26 minutes and 24 seconds, SPS 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group for five minutes, as referred to in Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposing a law amending the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, we have come from the fact that in the 2002 and 2003 elections, we did not get the President of the Republic and that, unwarrantedly, because of the lack of political will, we have a V.D. status. Pulsation v.d. states, I think it's clear to everyone, and given the misrepresentation, first of all, the Constitution, the disrespect of institutions, and then the situation that is v.d. The President of the State, or President of the Assembly (and here, in this period since we have no president of the State, we have had two officers of the duties of the President of the Republic) at the same time as a member of the Supreme Defence Council, and this is a very important function of the President of the Republic. The term of office of the President of the Republic is not in vain longer than the mandate of the Members of Parliament. So it's not crazy for five years, given this important power of his to defend the country. No one can convince me that Natasa Micic, so now Dragan Marsican is the real representative of Serbia's state in the Supreme Defence Council. What damage we suffer on this issue, I think we will only see it in due time, while Boris Tadic breaks up the Yugoslav Army. In fact, we do not have a president since 29 December 2002, when Milan Milutinovic stopped his term, although he had not interfered with his job before, probably being blackmailed by extradition to The Hague in the period from 5 October to the end of his term of office. This law we're trying to change now was passed in 1990. He was changed twice in 1992 and 2002. Now, in front of this item of the agenda, we have had a debate on the completion of this law, on the proposal of the DSS; if this proposal is adopted, and if this proposal is adopted, we will come to a contradictory situation. That is why I would like to go back to that warning that I gave the explaining amendment to the previous law, because of some future times, I suppose we will have the opportunity to, that it is necessary for political parties in the Serbian Parliament to agree on these matters outside the Assembly Hall, in the Assembly building, in order to reach a consensus and not to conduct such discussions that might then be turned into a series of individual MPs who would like to prove themselves behind the assembly speaker. This concerns those of us who directly participate in the political life of the country, who are running for elections and who are running for President of the Republic. More or less Serbian citizens are uninterested in this debate. I have to make a comparison between the previous bill and this bill, in order to get to the bottom of it. That's why I'm going to say that there was no legal void in the current law, nor in the existing Constitution, so that some would like to show it. However, we have a decision by the Constitutional Court that the non-constitutional provision of Article 5i paragraph 3 is that the president of the Assembly is not authorised to decide whether to call the elections or not. To take you back a little bit, I think it was February when then the president of Mrs. Natasa Micic's parliament made that historic decision to call the elections after the new constitution was passed. It was only after she called the November elections for the President of the Republic that our Constitutional Court announced and declared this provision unconstitutional. However, the current speaker of the assembly, however, is silently not by one act, not by a decision, as Natasa Micic did, deciding not to call the elections. He first had to do so when he became president of the Assembly, if he wanted to respect both the Constitution and this decision of the Constitutional Court. Proposers of this previous law – the DSS should remember the non-disciplineability of their views over the past two years, when it comes to presidential elections. The hour called for elections to be discussed, the hour called for elections not to be debated: don't call them, there is a high censorship, the constitution will change, the president will be elected in parliament. There's got to be a principled view on this, and we have to go back to the reasons why we've had unsuccessful elections. It is a censorship of one reason, but the censorship was not achieved because all the political factors did not want to run for their candidate, i.e. lacked the political will to elect the president. Had it been for political will, had it not been for obstruction, we would have had a president by now, whoever he was. It doesn't matter at all at this point, nor is it important for the citizens of Serbia to do so who is the president of the state, if he is elected by the majority. Everyone else will respect that president. At least it's always been so far, and that's how I hope it will be. The fact that the censorship is high and that it's time for us to abolish it by this law justifies and the fact that we don't have orderly voter lists. Everyone knows that, and I think the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs will agree. Everyone had objections to the voter's list. Unfortunately, we also failed to comply with that provision in the Law on the Selection of MPs insisting on a single voter's list. What's a unique voter list, there's no need for me to explain here right now. This is certainly not a collection of individual electoral lists held in the authority of the administration of any municipality. For example, in the United States, it never goes to polls more than 40%, which is the maximum, so no one asks the question of the legislator of the elected president. We have a very good turnout in the elections and when it comes to parliamentary elections and when it comes to presidential elections, but there was no political will for these three years to intervene this way as we propose, to abolish the censorship and to have the president of the state. Some keep talking about constitutionality, respecting the Constitution, respecting the laws, respecting the institutions, and in practice neither respecting the Constitution nor respecting the law nor respecting the institutions. Here, in this first session, with some agenda that does not concern our constitution, we have proved that we do not respect the Constitution, nor the law, nor the institution, nor ourselves here, our Parliament, because some MPs allow themselves to speak in some burning and revolutionary way here, not realizing that the time has passed. Serbian citizens want the cold and sober heads of politicians, they want us to conflict opinions, so that we can come up with those solutions that will support them, and they are also in favour of passing a law under which we will have the president of the Republic in the next scheduled elections. Because if we had a president so far, I believe that he who has an obligation to sign orders for certain laws and how he's thinking about whether he's going to sign the Labour Act, the Lustration Act, the Privatisation Act and so on, whoever he is. The citizens of us mostly expect us to start keeping pre-election promises, and we all promised to respect the institutions. One of these institutions is also the President of the Republic and therefore we must enable them to hold the next elections and receive the President of the Republic. We have to prove it in action. I don't see why any parliamentary group wouldn't support this bill. The previous law, proposed by the DSS, if adopted, will be contradictory to this bill of ours and therefore should, given that this is a law that we passed a week before the DSS, to be on the agenda before the agenda and to vote first on it, and then on that other law, but well, always the congregation majority does what it wants. We showed it yesterday on the Administrative Committee - that it is important how many of us, not who is right - so we voted the assembly majority and decided that Parliament Speaker Dragan Marsicanin broke the Rules of Procedure yesterday. There is a problem interpreting the Constitution so far, because no one comes from legal analogy, nor from analogue interpretation that the Constitution wants us to have all institutions at all times. Just by predicting the existence of the acting officer, he wants us to know that we must always have the President of the Republic, but the one who performs the duties of the President of the Republic cannot be in some indefinite period as long as it has happened to us. Article 4 of the existing law was inaccurate, which is a fact because it says that the election for the President of the Republic is being called by the President of the National Assembly. This provision is imprecise, it has proved in practice, because so far the presidents of the Assembly have left themselves the right to decide when to call the elections, and they are not authorized to do so. That is what the Constitutional Court said, and that is why we suggest that this Article 4 states that elections for the President of the Republic are called by the President of the National Assembly on the same day as the reasons set out in Articles 86 and 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We think that this is absolutely accurate, although the Serbian government is responding (and that is the obligation, after all, to the President of the Assembly to direct this outgoing government, which only carries out the duty of the Serbian Government to declare this bill) that this is an inaccurate provision that we are proposing, because it is practically not possible to determine what is the day when elections are to be called. If we are obliged to comply with Article 86. The constitution is then not difficult to calculate at all when elections have to be called, in order to have that minimum legal deadline for holding elections. There is no claim from some MPs who went out for this pay phone in the previous debate that elections are expensive. That's pretty demagogue. Democracy is usually expensive, but bear in mind that these money spent on elections is spent mainly on the cost and compensation of election committees. So that money always goes to the citizens of Serbia and they are being spent further and none of it has any harm. For this reason, not because of these presidential elections that are quite promising, although they are delayed, as far as I can see, but because of the future parliamentary elections, we should all be fair and not stick to such populist claims anymore. Once we enter the electoral process, and we've entered another September of 2002, then we shouldn't stop with that process anymore. The problem was, of course, over-authorization of the president of the assembly, the former, who decided to stop the procedure, not to call the elections. We had a decision by the Constitutional Court which was after, although post-festum, after the elections had already been called, declared unconstitutional and now we have once again an unconstitutional state and the unconstitutional behaviour of the current president of the Assembly who had already had to call the elections. In principle, as a political party, we don't mind the 60 days that you predict should pass in order that the president of the assembly since he was appointed (which was 4 or 5 February) will call the elections, because we too are tired of election campaigns. It's all right. We have to stick to our views in principle. If we've criticised someone else for doing something, then we have to do everything to make it right and not act the same, otherwise we show that we're changing attitudes depending on whether we're the government or the opposition, whether it's in the interest that the elections are held or not, what is the rating of our political party or our presidential candidate. Politics is one thing, and the institution is another, and the Constitution is something that stands above all that. In order to overcome the various marifetteluks of some of the current political factors that have had an impact, and to prevent such marrietteluks and the future, we have proposed, practically in two members, the abolition of censorship and the president of the Republic would be elected if he received most of the votes of voters who voted. If none would win most of the votes cast by voters, the vote would be repeated within 15 days of the day of holding that previous vote and the re-vote for the President of the Republic has been elected by the candidate who received the largest number of votes, no matter how many voters voted. We have also provided for this bill for the possibility that, during this period between the two rounds of voting, corrections can be made in the voter lists, taking into account the discrepancies of the voter lists and we have proposed to delete Article 13a as regards the financing of the presidential campaign, since this is all regulated by the Law on the financing of political parties. Therefore, a small intervention in the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic which should lead us to never again be left without such an important institution and that this institution is being usurped by those who are simply not personnel to bear all the responsibility that this function requires, and the fact that a certain number of voters is needed and that a direct statement by citizens is needed to be president of the state points to the importance of the function itself. I call on you to think again very carefully, to consider the fact that it was really necessary to discuss this law first, and perhaps the course of the debate would be quite different, perhaps the decision would be different if we had already ignored the political agreement that had to take place on this law, and that you were voting for this law and that since the day of adoption of this law, as we have asked for one amendment, we would consider the elections and that we have very nearly, within that appropriate deadline, the legal one, which you consider necessary. And as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, I really don't think any other campaigns are necessary after this long cycle of elections. We can do it all in 30 days and get the President of the Republic. I'd have had this much for this opening presentation, but I reserve the right, of course, to report back to you during the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u388	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Justice and Administration Committee, Branislav Ristivojevic? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u389	We're done with support, so it's not a topic anymore. Although Mr. Toma Nikolic and I promised Boris Tadic, at the group heads' meeting, that we would support him. True, we agreed to support him two days before the election, and he did one day, but I couldn't wait that day, and I expect Mr. Toma Nikolic to do so tomorrow. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, of course, it is not in the domain of interest. Therefore, the topic is the bill submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. It is obvious that this amendment of the Law will be accepted, i.e. a 50% census will be abolished. I would like to say on behalf of the SPS that it is obvious that such a decision will be made, because the two largest political parties have declared themselves, and the two largest parliamentary clubs, in favour of the vote to abolish the censorship in the first election round. Of course, on behalf of the SPS, I would like to say that it is necessary for Serbia to have a president of the Republic. Serbia has been in a full constitutional blockade these few years. Serbia had a parliament that provided its parliamentary majority with the theft of votes and parliamentary mandates. Also, Serbia has had in the past few months the outgoing government of the Republic of Serbia, composed of those who not only leave the political scene but also leave the Democratic Party. Also, Serbia also had a blockade of parliament's work and it was necessary to end the political agony that exists in Serbia. Serbia has a constitution in which there is an institution of the President of the Republic, which is one of the country's guiding or moderation powers, the president of the Republic that has the same legitimate basis as the parliament, because it is a representative of the people, elected directly by the people. We had a situation that the President of the Republic should have been an institution that would prevent the execution, or executive government, from undermining its authority legislation, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; an institution that would prevent parliament from being an instrument in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution stipulates that it is just preventing the institution of the president of the Republic of Serbia, which exercises one authority that is neither legislative nor purely enforceable, which in the theory of constitutional law is referred to as a modern government. Of course, the President of the Republic has powers stemming from his choice. There have been several times, as has been said over the previous agenda, remarks by opposition parties at the time that there is a presidential system in Serbia instead of a parliamentary system. It is true that there is no presidential system in Serbia, but it is true that the President of the Republic has a stronger constitutional position, because it has a legitimate basis as well as parliament, because it is elected directly by the people in the elections. And that is why the President of the Republic had and has the authority to return the passed laws to parliament for a re-election. He can, on a reasoned proposal from the government, disband parliament, ask the government to put certain issues on the agenda, to take a stand on them. Also, the President of the Republic can introduce a state of emergency on a reasoned proposal from the government. We came, in the past few months, years, precisely because DOS authorities violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and did not want to call presidential elections, in the situation that Natasa Micic, as V.D. The President of the Republic shall use the powers of the President of the Republic not only representative powers. The one not chosen by the people, the one who was indirectly chosen, introduced an emergency, absolutely unconstitutional. She used the state of emergency. They were passed, as you know, and indications with legal power, but were of course passed laws in this assembly, which were declared unconstitutional after several months by the Assembly itself. As you remember, it's a law that people can be detained without a court order, which currently exists in no country in the world; even during DOS rule, at a time of emergency, more people are arrested than Pinochet did in Chile. This is why the SPS, due to a strong legitimate basis for the elected president of the Republic, believes Serbia should get the president of the Republic and that presidential elections should be called immediately. But in order for the president not to have the brittle legitimacy, to be chosen by most Serbian citizens, we have not generally supported it so far, we have been against abolishing the 50% censorship and in the second round. We remained principled, unrelated to who has the intention of running and the desire to win in the presidential elections, against abolishing 50% censorship for the first election round. In Serbia, it's not a censorship for not having a Serbian president. I would like to remind you that all the presidents of Serbia's elected so far have been elected with an existing censorship in the first or second election round. The problem here was that DOS authorities did not want the president of Serbia elected. Therefore, there has never been a problem in Serbia and it is not impossible to get the president of the Republic and with the existing censorship. The census means that the first-round elections need more than 50% of eligible voters. Under the bill, the censorship will no longer exist, even there will be no need for the two candidates to get more than 50% in the second election round. In the second round, 50% of the out, not the total number of voters. That's what I'm saying because it's possible that no one gets more than 50% in the second round, and your bill says most of the votes. Most votes – it does not have to mean more than 50% of those left in the second round. So, in Serbia, the president can be elected without censorship. In Serbia, the president can be elected in parliament, but cannot have the powers he now has under the Constitution. It may have them, but it will be with the back legitimacy, and therefore, regardless of the need for Serbia to get the president, it is better for all political parties to engage, to have their candidates and to have presidential elections succeed, rather than to abolish the censorship. Once again, I would like to remind you -- all of Serbia's current presidents have been elected with the existing censorship, even some of them have been elected in the first election round with an existing 50% censorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u390	Thank you. There are no more representatives or presidents of political parties reporting for the word. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs Pop-Lazic, but allow me, meanwhile, to inform you that the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration will be held on Monday at 9.45 p.m., a third-floor hall, and a session of the Administrative Committee will be held today at 17.00 p.m. in the downstairs hall. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker has just intrigued me to go out for a pay phone again to explain or reassure the SPS MP's group that he is on the right track, given that the censorship they are seeking to obtain the legitimacy of the future president, although we have already said, and you all know, there is a small number of states where the president is directly elected. But you forget that the agenda point is after this point of amending the Law on the Election of People's MPs, which provides for still a unique voter list (which we do not have), and predicts a vote abroad, so people who live abroad who have never lived here will be able to vote. Although the Law on the Selection of People's MPs still says, and the Constitution says that it must have a residence on the territory of our country or at least the last residence, we see that the proposal will allow those who have never had a place of residence in the country to vote. So, in all that mass, if the law is passed, and the impression is that there is a new assembly majority to vote on, they will make it more difficult to elect a president, because these provisions concern the implementation of elections for the President of the Republic. So if we were to leave that censorship, we would never have the elected president, given that the citizens of Serbia could vote in the diaspora, and even those who had never had a place of residence, but then. Of course, we'll see after the debate on the law whether there's a congregation majority to vote on that law, but I believe the DSS wouldn't have put it on the agenda if it hadn't secured it in advance. That makes it even more difficult to elect a president, only if you really don't want the president elected. So, I don't understand the scope of the SPS, which advocates that there is an institution, given its authority, that it has so much potential for that capacity of 50% of the voters out there, knowing about this fact regarding foreign voting. And yet, that, according to that draft law that will only be on the agenda and we'll just talk about it, we simply don't know how we're going to implement it, since we have little time left to hold these elections, and we haven't solved many technical matters: neither will they, nor will they vote on, whose expense, if you already potential the topic, political parties to send their representatives wherever our citizens live so that they can vote and control those elections. Without election control, you'll understand, too, I guess, there's no democratic choice and these elections can't have any legitimacy. How the state will provide visas for all those who wish to have their representatives in polling stations is a problem for new authorities, but make sure that if they fail to provide it, no one will admit it. I'm really afraid that those who most call for legitimacy, democracy, institutions don't do it on purpose, and I just can't believe it's the case, and they're not aware that all these conditions won't be able to meet, and that only maybe marketingly throw dust in the eyes of our diaspora that should get the impression that the DSS wants to ask them too who will be in power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u392	Replica, please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u393	Mrs Pop-Lazic, on the longest and most serious roads, it is always necessary to take the first step and just introduce the diaspora in the draft law on the selection of MPs is the first step to equalise our citizens in the country and abroad; the first step to be citizens equal with us who are sitting in this hall today; the first step if we want them to return to our country and be part of our economic and any other recovery, and therefore we need to take the first step. We also took the first step in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, where we introduced the possibility of a diaspora voting. Surely the first vote will not be ideal in everything, that it may not be possible for everyone to vote, but one must take the first step. This is the first step, and the DSS talked about it when it was an opposition, we talked about it in the last 10 years when we became a party, and we believe that this first step, however insignificant it seems to you, must be made, and we have made it, and we will endure it. It is because of the fact that we are all equal, that the state of Serbia must treat those not born in Serbia as a mother, not as a stepmother. As long as we don't let those who live outside our country get citizenship and vote, they certainly won't come here to invest, because they won't be safe, just because they feel like strangers in their own country. In order not to feel like strangers anymore, but to feel when they come to Serbia as at home, we need to take the first step, which is to allow them to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u394	Replica, Mr. Wolfie. Wait a minute, as head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Vukic has chosen to speak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u395	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the subject is very serious. Namely, to try to answer what Mr. Michael said, demagoguely trying to say that they love our people and our people who live and work abroad, and we love or don't know what. In fact, the SRS believes that if there were a good solution and if it could be controlled by the electoral process itself, if it could be arranged in a legal and democratic way, without any problems, it would be desirable for our people abroad to vote. There are dozens of problems here that will be very difficult to solve, because that's impossible. Says Mr. Mihajlov - not everything will be ideal in the first election. If everything isn't ideal, then we didn't have a democratic, valid election. I guess everything must be ideal for that matter, especially respect for the electoral will, the orderly lists, clear and accurate records. This is about, first of all, something else, and then control of the process itself, which is not foreseen by your bill of law. This is about something else, which is, you've been meeting with the representatives of our diaspora, and we've met, but unlike you, the hypocrites you've turned into a legal project, we haven't promised what's impossible to do. We said -- we'd like you to integrate into our social life, we'd love if there was a way or a possibility and you could go to the polls, so let's see how to secure control. If you think we will allow the elections to be valid or declared successful in such a way that they will vote in diplomatic and consular representations with the control of ambassadors, consuls or anyone else, so that they can throw their envelopes as much as they want and as they will, then your Glisic in Australia will bring hundreds of envelopes or thousands of DSS envelopes, even if we don't get any votes, we won't let that happen. How do we ensure that people can vote in Brisbane, Perth, as well as in Melbourne and Sydney? How and in what way? Has anyone thought about it? How and in what way will you ensure that votes are cast in Stuttgart, Dortmund, Kelna and Berlin, because if you don't let him vote... If you could just calm them down a little bit and not count me this time. So, if there are those opportunities to vote only in Berlin or in another or two cities, then we will have an even bigger problem, it will be easier for them to get to Belgrade. So, it's not a question of someone's will whether these people vote or not, as you wanted to present it, because we want these people to vote, and thanks to their votes, thanks to their electoral will, because most of these people arrived at the parliamentary elections in Serbia, because of their great interest, the SRS has been given the highest confidence. And don't worry, we'll beat you not only in Belgrade, Pirote, Novi Sad, we'll beat you in Munich, Adelaide, Brisbane and anywhere else in the world, but for that we need to ensure a clear control procedure, based on the law and there's no problem. One more thing about what was transferred to Mrs. Pop-Lazic, and it's not true. I'm done, Mr. Vice President. (President: You have your 20 minutes, since you speak as the head of the parliamentary group. There was no replica. You asked for Mrs Pop-Lazic's intervention as a representative of the parliamentary group. You've got 16 minutes left. I've got six more minutes. It's been pointed out here that we have a presidential system. We don't have a presidential system, it's a pure invention of former political opponents. No theorist in Serbia will tell you that we have a presidential, not even a semi-presidential system, because what are the authority of the President of the Republic provided for in Articles 82 to 89. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The powers of the President of the Republic are special in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the second executive body, are extremely small. He cannot even have a different way of affecting the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, except to call on individual ministers, members of the government, and this is more of an impact on the public and citizens of Serbia than is an essential influence on the government's work. He can primarily influence these calls, these conversations, these appeals by speaking to the public and to people who are not doing their job, who are not doing it, who are doing it in an illegal and criminal way, etc. Basically, he doesn't have much more power here. He has the right to a suspension veto in the form of his control over the work of the Assembly, but if the Assembly repeats its decision and re-imposes the same law, the president of the Republic of Serbia is forced to declare the law by means of an order, i.e. to sign it. So there's a very limited president of the Republic. Now look at what kind of contradiction that is. We don't have an election census for parliamentary elections. So, 100,000 voters could go to the polls and choose a government that would have incomparably greater powers than the President of the Republic has in line with the positive Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the censorship for the President of the Republic would remain. I think it's an unbreakable logic and it's completely clear to everyone. That is why it is necessary to pass such a law and that is why I am confident and it is obvious that we will have a parliamentary majority for it. There are several reasons why we had problems with the election of the President of the Republic, in fact and legally. We've got a real problem today. Let's do one simulation: call the election tomorrow and say, The Serbian Radical Party (although we have never done so, I want to say what a political situation is in Serbia, what bipolarity exists at almost every moment) that it will not participate in the presidential elections, no one living could lead to 30% of those who went out, not 50%; or to say the whole block of these other parties that are against the SRS -- we will not participate, we cannot naturally take 50% of the people to the elections and we do not hide it at all, there is no dispute. So we have a difficult political situation, a significant division and, of course, we think that we have more supporters and supporters, but that significant division is undeniable. On the other hand, we have a legal question whether or not we need to have a President of the Republic. We have to have the President of the Republic or have elections, but it's better to have the elected president, because that's why we're going to motivate all those to get into that kind of political game. When the census is lifted, neither the DB will be able to say so-called, nor will the SRS, nor anyone else -- I'm sorry, I leave this second victory to these elections. The victory in these elections is essential, not only because of the fact that it will have some authority to be a member of the Supreme Defence Council, to propose that the president and judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the one that I have stated, not to mention the traits and pardons that are slightly less significant powers of the President of the Republic. He has fundamental importance over one thing: he was elected directly by the citizens of Serbia. In this lies his huge force, which is not based on constitutional powers and prerogatives of government, but on the enormous influence it has on Serbian citizens. That's where his huge political power comes from. So, if this were to happen and in such a way, the presidential elections are being discussed under these conditions, then a clear view can be given of the change in voting will, the change in the mood of Serbian citizens, and then it is clear that we would have to go to new parliamentary elections or see how and in what way the new majority in the Serbian Parliament is set up differently. So, I think these are two key reasons why such a proposal, which the SRS tabled, should accept all parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament. It is clear that we will have a majority because some other political parties have requested this before, but what is important is that political consensus is achieved and that all political forces accept this. We've had problems before. It is not true that he was easily elected president in the previous period. In fact, when Vojislav Seselj was winning, then there were 0.02 missing votes where we had no controller, and we are not allowed to have controllers in every place in Kosovo and Metohija at that time. Then, in the re-election tour, we had cases where the Socialist Party of Serbia candidate in Glogovec had 19,000 votes, and we had four votes. There are 642 votes in the Lower Prekaz, and we have zero votes. There, we know that the Serb police tanks in 1999 managed to enter the Lower Prekaza, and never before, since 1945, the Serb foot has set foot, but someone said that polling stations were open and the Federal Constitutional Court said – what do we care, you have no proof that it is not. You tell him – man of God, nobody ever came there alive, let alone that the elections were held, and he convinces us that Adam Jasari voted for Milan Milutinović. So everything was possible, but it was filled in that way. This is the final solution that we can show that we need to have a president, to enter an open political game, into a fair but fair political struggle, to win the best among us. If it is a Serbian radical, it will be a significant change for Serbia, and if one of your candidates wins, we think it will be bad for Serbia, you think it will be good. Of course, as you said, we tell you, and you know that we have always recognised the will of citizens, always the first to announce election results, never lied, never stole, and we will never do so in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u396	Mr. Dacic, replica, and then Mr. Ristivojevic as vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u397	I answered in fact because of what Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, but Mr. Vukic now mentioned some things, so I would also like to use it to replicate it, or to use my time as president of the SPS Parliament Club. (President: Please use your time for replica, because you used the first 10 minutes and left the last 10 for the final word. So the replica in one sentence. The SPS is a principled anti-census stripping. It has been shown that the President of the Republic could be elected with both existing censorship and censorship in the second election round. The current parliamentary majority of DOS has downloaded the censorship in the runoff and the president has not been elected again. In the last election, it seems to me that the rate of turnout was 38%. If you took the number of votes received by leading candidates, it would be approximately 20% of the vote, with 20% of the electoral body elected by the President of the Republic. And that's possible, but we don't think that that's enough legitimate ground for the kind of authority that the President of the Republic has. I did not say that there is a presidential system in Serbia, there is a system of parliamentaryism in Serbia, but with little emphasis on the role of the president of the Republic, which is not only symbolic and representative, because it is elected by the people. That's why it doesn't make sense that Natasa Micic, with her purse, declares a state of emergency, and their nation has not chosen. Mr. Vukic just said something about the election, and I'm guessing he meant the 1997 presidential election. As for that, I would not like to go back to the past, I would just like to say that the SRS participated in these elections and its President Vojislav Seselj, that Milan Milutinovic participated on behalf of the SPS. He won those elections, as the president of the Republic gave the mandate for Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic's composition, who composed the government whose vice president was Vojislav Seselj. So I think it's absolutely legitimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u398	The word is Mr Ristivojevic, as representative of the parliamentary group, deputy chief, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u399	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would just like to point out a few things, namely to look at a few things that have been said by distinguished colleagues of previous speakers, Mr. Vukic especially, which is that I am sorry that we started the debate on the next item of the agenda before we exhausted this one. But I can't help but look back at a few things that were said there. It is quite possible, Mr. Vukic, that elections are legal and legal without being ideal. The bill on selecting MPs, for example, predicts a number of violations of the procedure, some are absolute, some can automatically lead to cancellation, for example, voting in one polling post, some are relative, not necessarily immediately. There are such violations of the electoral procedure that absolutely do not affect the legality of the proceedings; e.g. in the elections for this assembly where we were elected, as in previous presidents, it was not working, for example, the supervisory board that mentioned the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, so the elections were legal, legal, and they were not ideal. In this sense, it is necessary to understand the words of Mr. Michael, who said it was possible for the future elections for which we foresee the creation of special records, i.e. special lists of voters, our fellow citizens abroad, to not be ideal for these lists. I believe it is not possible in the next month or two to list all of our people who have a place abroad, but it is really necessary to start at least with that first step. Where possible, it should be done and where it is possible to make those special records should be held by a vote. I hope that in the next few years, the longest, until the next elections, or perhaps for maybe two rounds of elections for this assembly, it will be possible for all or most of our fellow citizens abroad to be on these special lists of voters who are abroad and to allow all of them to vote. You took Australia as an example. I agree with you that it is almost impossible for the next elections to succeed, let's say, in Australia to list people; therefore at least in the near environment, geographically, at least in Western Europe where most of our citizens are located, I think it is possible. Here we have a large number of diplomatic and consular representations that we propose as places where these elections could, or vote, be held. So, I repeat, so that there is no confusion, because of our fellow citizens watching this transmission, it is possible that elections are legal without being ideal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u400	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pitiæ, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u401	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have turned our attention...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u402	Just tell me which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u403	Article 82(6) I express my doubts about the existing quorum established by the electronic system. The anti-business session is scheduled for today and you are unable to hold the quorum even during the afternoon and during the afternoon. So much for the new congregation majority. Please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u404	We'll listen, of course, to Mr. Pitiæ. Please confirm the quorum. I ask the Members to place their MP cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We're continuing our work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DSS, SRS and DS. I give my word to Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u405	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, two days in this room, we are discussing two legislative proposals, and I think that most of them have already been said. I'll just try to look back on a few of the most significant facts. Serbia has no president, our house has no hosts. We know that it is the former government's fault, that Mrs. Natasa Micic bears great responsibility for it. We know she broke the Constitution. But, not to laminate over her fate, I think it's good to see what we can do at this point in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, when we already call on our voters more than once every day. The fact is that today we are discussing two legislative proposals that are compatible, and that is undeniable. The fact is that the DSS will support the SRS proposal in this sense to abolish the censorship of the 50% vote, and that is undeniable. After all, if that were done when the DSS proposed it, Mr Vojislav Kostunica would have been president of Serbia a long time ago, and it is undeniable. In fact, the SRS proposal would mean that elections are being discussed at the moment, that we immediately go to the 50% vote, at the cost of fivem euros and the final outcome -- Serbia will not get the president again. I don't know who you're insinuating, gentlemen, and I can't agree with the thesis that costs aren't great, and democracy costs money. The DSS is a responsible party to its voters, Mr. Vukic, and it will do everything to keep its voters in line with what she promised in the election campaign. Mr. Wolfie, there's no reason for you to react like that, besides, the beech doesn't make the violin... (Chairman: Please, a little polite behavior. Please. Here you go. Gentlemen, no one has a deed to the position of president of Serbia, it will be in Serbia's elections, as the people say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u406	The word is Mr. Zarko Obradović, and let the Verica Radeta be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u407	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, Serbia has no President of the Republic because the current government did not want it. The proposed solutions will surely reduce the legitimacy and credibility of the future president, as important functions in the country and as a cohesion factor. The SPS will not support the proposed amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, especially those relating to the elimination of the 50 per cent censorship, as conditions of validity of the elections and the victory of one of the candidates for the President of the Republic. Interestingly, it is one small observation before I mention the reasons why we will not support these changes, that there is agreement between the two largest parliamentary groups around this famous censorship, but it is interesting because when you listen to the representatives of the two parliamentary groups, no one dares to say it is a coalition. Radicals used a nice word "consensus." When other parliamentary groups agree, there is the identity of attitudes, then it is not a consensus, it is a coalition. It only says how much political interests dominate every debate in this assembly, which is not controversial, but it would be fair to admit. Yesterday some of the mouths were full of constitutionality and the need to respect the Constitution, to adopt solutions that are in accordance with the Constitution, and today, when it comes to this bill, the Constitution is absolutely bypassed. There would have to be equality in the election process. The constitution prescribes that the president can be recalled and such conditions would be logical to apply when it comes to the election of the President of the Republic. Everyone's talking about censorship, and there's very little talk about authority. In earlier years, the story was just the other way around. There was talk of great, huge powers, Caesarist powers of the President of the Republic, and the censorship was not disputed. The elections held between 1990 and 2000 were successful, although there was a 50 per cent censorship in the first and second rounds, and it was no obstacle for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to get a legally elected president, with a secret vote in the elections, as is the order. Now, apparently, the censorship is problematic, because there are no candidates who can attract citizens to come out in that number and ensure that the elections are successful. That's why he's resorting to the simplest, most painless solution: to change the law, the census doesn't exist, so as far as he gets out, the president gets elected. There's a little problem, I'm saying, these constitutional decisions regarding impeachment. We're going to have a president with powers, I'm not going to say big or small, because there used to be words that were big, and now nobody's mentioning it, even saying it's protocolal, but the point is that there's one gap between elections and impeachment. It is interesting that this current voter census is also a problem for the president's election, and it is forgotten to mention that it has already been reduced once. In 1997, Serbia's electoral body was 7,220,000 voters, so the censorship was reduced, and this reduction of voters' obstacles for some candidates to win the election. But the target justifies the means. Now other arguments are being used, of course, to ensure candidate victory. We must say that the proposed amendments to the law, in particular by reducing the censorship of the votes needed to elect a president, violates the principle of equality in the election process over the election of the president and his impeachment. It is logical that someone chooses and resolves in the same way and under the same conditions. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, still valid, in Article 88(3), stipulates that the president of Serbia has been called off if the majority of voters vote for it. Of course the recall is decided directly and secretly. If the proposed amendments to the law are adopted, it is logical that the president of Serbia can then be, and will certainly be, elected with a very small number of voters, certainly far less than is necessary for his impeachment. The same man, same function, and completely different conditions for choice and recall. However, there are good things in this law. One is the eradication of a provision that gave the president of the National Assembly the opportunity to decide on calling elections for the President of the Republic. That this is not a good solution and that it provides an opportunity for abuse, the SPS also said in November 2002, when the assembly discussed amendments to the Law on the election of the president. At the time, we were right, and they showed later developments on Serbia's political scene. The then president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, working only in the interests of DOS politics, "decised", because we all know how it was decided not to call the elections, with then and now very funny explanations. In fact, the DOS election rating was very small at the time and was estimated to buy time, and only in some new conditions to call the elections. After nine months, when the situation seemed to be better, that the rating was higher, the same president asked questions, and others decided to discuss the election. Later developments showed that the estimates were not good, which is good for Serbia, but also how much the provision was the basis for volunteer interpretation. The essence of the story is that such provisions were in the Law so that they could be shaped as appropriate to the ruling coalition. Of course, DOS has made elections to succeed or fail, as they do, as it did in the elections for the President of the Republic, it also had its candidates, both officially and unofficially. The whole election process was designed to achieve the desired interests of DOS, so we had an official candidate and those off-the-book who, I say, filled in empty space and designed the media scene of Serbia so that other real candidates couldn't show their values, let alone that political views could be presented in a valid manner. We had a situation, and it was tolerated, that some candidates didn't collect 10,000 signatures, some 500, some 600, some 1,000, and some even 4-5 thousand less. There was also an official report by the MUP, which had a legal obligation to verify the validity of these signatures, to see if they were actually signatories. Of course, the official report by the MUP was completely ignored, as it was then in line with the DOS. I hope that this will never happen again and that this dimension of choice will not be applied. Serbia, undeniably, needs a president, but that is not an obstacle to censorship. The political parties need agreement and a unique invitation for the voters of the Republic of Serbia to participate in the elections, and for the media not to run a negative campaign, for the solutions to be in line with the constitution, at least while the constitution exists, which is not the case now. Two more words, about the election. I agree with the other colleagues that the voter lists should be arranged, that there are many shortcomings. Objectively, it is one major obstacle to the success of any future election. The municipal authorities have obviously not done much on this plan and this will be a major challenge for them, and an obstacle to the legal election of the President of the Republic or any other election. One more thing about how to monitor the choices themselves. We had one supervisory board, which no one mentioned, and no one knows if it's alive or if it's working or if it's not working. The assembly should also create these assumptions for the success of the election, because we have had one paradoxical situation, that the NGO CeSID appears as someone who, on behalf of the state body, is giving assessments of the regularity of the election, and we have seen in the past three years that there has been an absolute bias of that body, related to the ruling coalition, or DOS. If we want regular, fair, fair elections, for Serbian citizens to choose who they want, then those solutions must be amended or made to comply with the constitution. This proposed law in part of the proposed solutions is not in line with the Constitution and we, the Socialist Party of Serbia, will not support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u408	Thank you. Mr. Wolf was looking for a replica. It's a client.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u409	Ladies and gentlemen, don't make Professor Angelkovic angry and angry, he directly mentioned the SRS. A little while ago, we laughed and laughed when we heard a claim made by Mr. Obradovic, but we realized it was more tragic, but I have to explain it for the citizens of Serbia. In fact, Mr. Obradovic, since it is difficult to defend his political party's policy today, went out and said -- the radicals are in a coalition with the DSS, will vote for one law together. So, as for the SRS and the coalition and consensus relations on certain issues, the coalition is being forged on key political issues, in particular the formation, support and maintenance of the government. This consists of a coalition, or in forming and supporting a joint candidate for the President of the Republic or a joint parliamentary list. They're coalitions. Whether we will vote for the DSS decision on which it is Friday or not today, it is not a coalition, it is understood that we will do so, and they could hardly explain to their voters and citizens of Serbia why they are against the radical bill they have advocated so much. I am very concerned that the SPS parliamentary group is also voting in favour of the SRS proposal. I'd like everyone in this assembly to vote for this proposal, so we're ready here, if you want metaphorical concessions to be made. When Mr. Obradovic says -- everything is fine with the law, the problem is in the candidates, here, if their candidate gets to 3%, let him be president of the Republic. We're ready to accept something like that, we wouldn't have any problem with that. Of course, this was a joke, but how impossible it is for that candidate to get 3% is so impossible to accept and this kind of remark. So, the SRS reminds you once again of the fact that we choose the Serbian Parliament without any censorship, and the assembly majority forms the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is the largest authority in the Republic. If it is possible to do so without censorship, it is understood that it is possible and that it is normal and that it is also with the President of the Republic, who has incomparably less prerogative authorities, incomparably lower authority. So that's what this is about, and of course don't worry about the citizens of Serbia, they'll be able to assess well and who's in the coalition, who's in what way and why he's made coalition agreements, who's refused some that were very logical and only acceptable to the citizens of Serbia, and that's why we don't run away from these choices, and let the people tell him who's most acceptable to him. It can also be an SPS candidate, and it can be a candidate and a Democratic Centre, we do not go into it; and if they say it's an SRS candidate, and we believe it will, we expect others to accept it, support it, and not find any falns and flaws again, just because it's a Serbian radical and because they can't stand such an election defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u410	According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u411	As head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u412	Here, it's the second part of your time, Mr. Dacic, be kind, since you have to discuss this with me, certainly not with incompetent people, be kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u413	I ask the President, or the President of the Assembly, that when he gives MPs the word, he takes care of what basis he gives. We'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. It is well known that the heads of parliament clubs can come forward if someone has spoken offensively about his political party. Therefore, I do not want to interpret this time whether Mr. Vukic has spoken offensively or not, but I will use this extra time that I have as head of Parliament's club. As far as the SAA is concerned, our principled commitment does not depend on the desire of the SRS, the DSS, they have the same goal, that their candidates be elected president of the Republic of Serbia and that is the legitimate right of each party and their party interest. We just point out that a member of the Constitution of Serbia also says that the president of the Republic is impeached, and it is well known that the right and the choice, mostly in the way one is elected, is thus resolved. It is not possible for the president of the Republic to be elected with a million and 200,000 votes and to call off three million and 260,000 votes. That's the point. They said earlier that there was a boycott of elections, that political parties boycotted the elections. I would remind you that almost all the elections held from 1990 to 2000 were boycotted by some political parties and always came out more than 50% of the voters. If elections were now called, if several leading political blocs had their candidates, more than 50% of the citizens would come out and I don't understand why there is such a desire for the president to be elected with 20% of voters from the total number of voters. Obviously, there is a common party interest between the SRS and the DSS, and that is legitimate. Not when the Socialist Party of Serbia votes in this case, for example, along with the DS, that you consider it unprincipled. We're just looking for the same arches when you talk about everything. Mr. Vukic had just criticised Zarko Obradovic. I want to criticize him on this occasion. He is my deputy, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group and vice president of the party. I want to criticize him for not quoting who he quoted when he put out what he said. Mr. Zarko Obradovic quoted from the First Session of the Second Regular Session on 5 November 2002, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Vojislav Seselj then said in an official book that was published here, also in connection with the debate on the law, it is not the law that was not elected president of the Republic, but the candidates who could not attract citizens to vote for them. Seselj is right and Zarko Obradovic is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u414	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, as a promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, it is absolutely no matter how many of us in this room vote and who they will agree with at some point. Interests are different, concepts are different, programs are different. And don't call us because someone has decided in this room to support our proposal. That someone has their reasons. It was our job to pass the bill. That's what we're right about. That's what we did. Who's gonna back us up doesn't matter. We'd all like that. You don't all think it's necessary, you have some reasons why you won't – it's also your right. There were no agreements, unfortunately, on these laws among the political parties, although I say again, there should have been and we should have agreed on that. You all know what's behind this, what choices we're going to have in the future, and that's why I want to go back a little bit in history, because some of them have been going back to history for this pay phone talking about the period between 1990 and 1997. Please, you all know that there have been over a million spare votes in Kosovo, the Cypriot votes, and that they have been used. Well, in 1997, our MPs were arrested in Kosovo and Metohija, those who were trying to be in polling stations. The Socialists were then sent to our deputies. That went down in history. Any, it hasn't happened again, and I hope it never really happens again. I'm a little bit of a part of the agenda that's about to come -- that you don't misread me, we absolutely don't mind having a diaspora vote. But there should be conditions to control the vote and that everyone can vote, that they can exercise that right. The one in America can't vote, and the one in Australia can't vote, because the state isn't serious and it can't provide those conditions, and you're calling for seriousness. It doesn't matter to us. Look out, you're taking the risk. You will be power. You will also be called political opponents and those citizens in the diaspora if you do not allow them to vote on equal terms. And who, please, will ensure that diplomatic and consular representations and diplomatic and consular representations are recorded in the voter lists and that people register in the voter lists? Is that what Goran Svilanovic's gonna do? He won't. And if you succeed until then, I ask you to change Goran Svilanovic, because here, Mr Marsicanin must have informed the Assembly of the state union that a delegation has been voted here for the parliament of the state union, and nothing has happened. There's still no summons there. People don't know whether they're MPs or not anymore. They probably are, it's legitimate that they are, because they're chosen here, but they don't know where to go, nobody calls them. And he's walking around the white world yesterday at the Council of Europe conference as president of the National Community Assembly. A man's being legitimate and representing himself as false as he isn't. This same Goran Svilanovic writes to us here, as foreign minister, and asks us to determine a delegation that will receive, please, the sister of senators of that and that, or the sister of senators of that and that, or the sister of advisor George Bush, and asks us to be a delegation that will receive such guests. It's humiliating for this parliament and for this country. Believe me, when I read that call, I came to answer Mr. Svilanovic – in the delegation of the Serbian Radical Party he will be next door to Mr. Mircic, MP, sister of Mr. Sarovic, MP, etc. Well, I mean, we don't respect institutions so much, so much we don't respect ourselves, no wonder things like this are happening to us and doing what we want and ordering us to do in our house. It's always our fault. We shouldn't blame others. About the censorship - please remember the local elections and the law on the election of the president and mayor of the municipalities. Census doesn't exist. A large number of voters should again be declared for impeachment, and tell me, please, which president in the world has ever called off. It's illusory, you know, to get into that situation. There is always political pressure that will lead the president, who steps out of his authority to resign. It's something that's absolutely logical. We'll never have that situation, and it doesn't take that long to stick with it. That's mostly it. I wanted to look back on what you've highlighted in the discussion so far, and the debate will continue and I hope we understand each other until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u416	Thank you. Mrs. Verica Radeta at last, please. Let him prepare himself... Sorry, you're out of luck. Mr. Dacic, replica. I haven't seen Mr. Dacic. Please, don't abuse the fact that we're really trying to be correct with everyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u417	As Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic said some things that might refer to the business provision that she was insultingly expressing herself to a political party whose president of the parliamentary club, related to some previous presidential elections, I would also like to say that it is true that the SRS has the right to say for all the good of the previous government that she was a proponent of it, and for what was not good that they were critics of the government. Everyone has a role to play in that period. Once again, Milan Milutinovic was elected president of Serbia in the second election round. Milan Milutinovic entrusted Mirko Marjanovic with the mandate to form the government, and the government was elected here in the assembly. The Deputy Prime Minister was Vojislav Seselj, and Mrs Pop-Lazic was the government minister, who was given the mandate to form Milan Milutinovic. Then why did you accept the term of office from the man you consider to have come to power by stealing votes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u418	Replica, Mr. Wolfie, or do you want to let the lady go first? Make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I just don't like this kind of debate because you have to go into an open political fight with an unequal opponent, who is much, much stronger than we are, much, much bigger than we are, because he thinks so, because he's had it since 10 or 15 years ago and he doesn't think anything in Serbia has changed. As for the fact that Milan Milutinovic gave a mandate to someone, Milan Milutinovic did not give a mandate to anyone from the SRS, not even a year after that Vojislav Seselj, as deputy prime minister, refused to speak to Milan Milutinovic and did not even talk. And no one from the Serbian Radical Party. As for his relationship with the government, he entered the government with the desire to protect Kosovo and Metohija and to keep Kosovo and Metohija in the state-law system of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately for us, we have not succeeded until the end, yet not thanks to the SRS, but thanks to a new coalition that has once made the SPS in the Serbian Parliament with the SPS. So that's what our key goal and mission is about. That government had a lot of bad, many good sides, both like this and like that. We took the worst and the hardest punches on our shoulders, and it was no accident that the fictional story about Shessel's cab was all over everything, even though it wasn't Shessel's tax. It was not by accident that DB officials did it both through the media and in all other ways, but to blame it on Serbian radicals. For what we're guilty of, we've suffered political responsibility. The question arises whether we in the Serbian Radical Party broke the law, whether we stole and kidnapped. We experienced political conflicts of bad government or not the best government in September of 2000, and we didn't want to go to the transitional government or to any other government with DOS; we had nothing to hide, we had nothing to hide, we didn't want to do anything else, we immediately went into a tough fight with them, we clashed with them, and we ended our story there. Did Serbian radicals steal, kidnap or kill? No one in the SRS has killed, stolen and kidnapped, and we are proud of it and no one from the SRS, nor you, for that period, nor those who still rule today, nor those who come can say the name of any single member that he has killed, stolen and abducted. That's the difference between Serbian radicals and our opponents, which is why we beat you, because, as much as you imagine our own size, you're small today, very small, and we're getting bigger and bigger, so much bigger that we're going to be bigger than everyone else together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u420	Please, there's no replica, this isn't offensive, this is just a hyperbole. Previous line, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, here you go. You want to be a proposer then, since the right to the replica was used? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u421	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make one comparison. The September elections in 1997 and the second round, for a wonderful miracle, took place on October 5th 1997 with Lilic, when the undeniable Vojislav Seselj won. Mr. Dacic was then president of the election headquarters and, I suppose, very influential at the time when we were known to have passed through in Kosovo and Metohija. Everyone knows that Vojislav Seselj won the election then, 49.8% were reportedly out; and what do we have left to do? To go to the streets like you from DOS went to the streets on October 5, 2000 to seek recognition of the victory of Vojislav Kostunica? There is no evidence of whether Vojislav Kostunica really won, whether enough voters came out, except in the archives of the Serbian Radical Party, since what exists in the Federal Assembly was burned. Therefore, you had the support of the West at the time, you were told - storm the Federal Assembly, storm the television, go to Milosevic's house, do whatever you want, we will support you, what I know. The SRS has never used revolutionary methods, nor has it come to mind that for any position in the state it uses these methods and risks anyone's life. Understand, when and when most will realize that we are the only democratic force in this country fighting for democratic principles, Europeans, and we will legitimately win all elections and meet in all places where we will be able to influence the future of this country and this people. The people are impatient, don't play with his patience. We're telling you this well-intentioned. I don't know if we can rule alone. We want you all to be upright, so that we can invite one of you to the coalition, because we will certainly be the strongest, and you take care of your actions and look for a little mercy for this people and for us. Please, who dares to criticise today and yell at the MPs of the SRS? This isn't 2000 when you were 176 and we were 23. There are 82 of us here now and don't you dare do anything like that again, please look at the right-hand side with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u422	Replica, Mr. Dacic, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u423	Ladies and gentlemen from the Serbian Radical Party do not understand the point. I did not criticise them for participating in the government, and Milan Milutinovic entrusted her with the mandate. I think it's a good thing they took part in this government, I just don't think it's time for remorse right now. As for that, the SPS, if Mr. Vukic's words apply to us, she didn't kill or steal, and if you're having an affair with the SPS, then you shouldn't have worked with her all this time that you've been working with her.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u424	Mr. Michael, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u425	I am sorry that Mrs Pop-Lazic came out, since her party announced on election night 2000 that Vojislav Kostunica won the first election round, that then Vojislav Seselj congratulated Vojislav Kostunica for his victory, and that is true and no one has ever done anything illegal. We were just fighting for the election will of the citizens. If you feel that the electoral will of the citizens is something we don't need to fight for, we don't. We think every vote of Serbia's citizens is important. We said that we would respect the will of citizens in every election and respect it, so we asked that the will of citizens be respected in those elections in 2000, and if it was not important for you then, it is for us. As you have done and admitted that Vojislav Kostunica then won and respected the will of the citizens, I do not think you can dispute the right for us to respect the will of the citizens as well and for asking for it to be recognised. It's an extremely legitimate right. I don't see that there's room for us to argue about anything, like there's no room to argue about the diaspora or everything we've heard here. The least we've ever heard today is a bill of law that's on the agenda. Gordana Pop-Lazic himself did not say anything about her law, because she proposed a law whose first position is absolutely pointless. I'm sorry that there is no Mrs. Pop-Lazic that we can legally or professionally talk about it, it's completely pointless and I don't know why it stands. We said that, after all, in the debate and about that law. Let her talk about these pointless provisions, and when it comes to the Law on selecting MPs on Monday, then we can have a nice debate on whether or not the diaspora should vote. According to Mrs Pop-Lazic, despite the fact that Duke Djujic, once a diaspora feather in America, declared a lot of radicals to be dukes and then the diaspora was good in the mid-90s, and now it's no good. It is again the political functioning of individual parties, and if someone is counting too much on the amnesia of the Serbian people, it does not have to count that we who are involved in politics will have the same amnesia and forget what has been going on in Serbia for the last 10-15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u426	Please, Mr. Wolf, this was a replica, you want a replica on the replica of Gordani Pop-Lazic, would you like to speak as the party mentioned? Here, I apologize to another Mrs. Verica we've been preventing for half an hour. Go ahead, turn around.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u427	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, but this is a pure right to the replica, and don't let that, please, tell us all the time about our stranger... (President: Mr. Wolf, be correct, you've got the word, go ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mihaylov did not listen to Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Mrs. Pop-Lazic just five minutes ago said she didn't mind, as we all said, that our citizens who have a place abroad go out and vote. We have a problem because of the procedure itself, the mode of control, the method of voting. I've even heard that you're going to accept some of our amendments too. That's the problem. The question is, can we solve this problem? We want them to vote, because every vote they cast is much more votes for the Serbian Radical Party than for anyone else. Why do you care about that? Don't worry. I'm glad you take care of the interests of the SRS, but you just said, your representative here said – we won't be able to ensure that the vote in Australia for the first election or we won't be able to in America, but we'll be able to do it here in a nearby environment. That's impossible. We can't make that kind of discrimination. Either we have general voting rights or we don't. We can't have this kind of discrimination, but don't worry, if you can do it, and if you succeed in respecting these basic conditions that the SRS insists on, then you'll see how nice it looks: in Los Angeles, the Serbian Radical Party 90%, in Brisbane 90%, in Johannesburg 90%, in Munich and Berlin 90%, and in Cheveningen in Serbian patriots 100%, and that will be our favorite victory. As for the stories of Duke Djujic, he chose only one duke in Serbia, Mr. Seselj. There's no more of them than there is one. That's what it's all about, Mr. Michael, so you know. Everywhere our people live, we need to find serious solutions that we can guarantee a serious, correct, logical and normal election procedure. If we could do that, it would be a big shift forward, but I'm afraid we're not gonna make it. I'm afraid there will be a lot of shortages, that there will be many opportunities for abuse, machination, electoral theft. We've had a lot of these cases in the previous period, you know how it was before in the barracks, so those who were directly placed by the regime... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie, for who knows which time today. ) Thank you for who knows which time, Mr. Markovic, you don't have to be so jealous on my case. (President: I've been letting you two minutes longer on the line for three minutes. Be patient with others, first of all, towards a Serbian Radical Party MP who has been waiting half an hour for the turn. ) Mrs. Radeta is waiting with great patience and she will speak very wisely and wisely, like all radicals. So, Mr. Michael, organize wherever you want and whatever you want, but keep it in line with the law and that it can be controlled. Then don't worry at all, we'll give you a real, big thank-you note after the election, you know what kind of a radical party we're making in Serbia, for helping us to have 140 MPs instead of 130, and for that we'll be extremely grateful to you. Madam Radeta, you have your word. Once again, please, as much as you tolerate, you're stealing time from all MPs. Please, every time for at least two minutes longer. Be kind, be respectful, at least in the course of the replica. (Igor Mirovic, from the place: What kind of word are we stealing? You're the vice president of the assembly. Don't tell me that by any chance. Mr. Mirovic, please don't win. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, on 16 January of this year, the deadline for the presidential elections to be discussed in Serbia expired. The obligation came from the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision, which apparently no one wants to respect so far. It was possible regardless of the fact that at that moment we were a stateless state, a state without an institution. Today, we have only the National Assembly, and obviously we have no will to continue this institution as the Constitution obliges us. They could have discussed the presidential elections on January 16th, and I have no intention of moving here with my colleagues, because it's a topic for a round table of lawyers, but it's obvious that there was no political will to do such a thing, and it may not be interesting today because it's not current. As things stand, we can't be sure that this situation won't happen again. Who knows what can happen in the next 60 days as to the formation of a government, on the matter of the eventual disbanding of this assembly, but if this is the case, then we'll talk about it. However, almost all day and today, several times the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia tried to misrepresent the Serbian public from this pay phone that the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group does not know what it wants, because, as we want the presidential elections right now, we want to abolish the censorship for the election of the president, so as we do not know what we want. We know, gentlemen, what we want. Our proposal to amend the Law on the election of the President of the Republic was submitted in the assembly procedure on 4 February 2004. This means that Mr Dragan Marsicanin, the moment he was elected president of the Assembly, could and should have taken a short break in work, agreed with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, reached a consensus and that this law, which we are discussing today, would be immediately on the agenda. In that case, the law would have been passed, long ago published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", a presidential election would have been announced long ago and we would have been in the presidential campaign. However, the will for such a thing was neither then nor now. For 14 months now, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has no president. We all know, it is mentioned here, that Mrs Natasa Micic has usurped this function and that, worse still, in performing this usurped function of the president of the state has done a series of abuses and a series of violations of the law. I'm going to mention the two most drastic ones. One is the introduction of a state of emergency, which has been discussed here, and another, which I have left in a very ugly memory, Mrs Natasa Micic, as president of the state, received George Soros as an official visit when he came to tell her that he was here to show that he advocated an independent Kosovo, or Kosovo republic. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, you have not convinced us that you are different from the Democratic Party and that Dragan Marsican is different from Natasa Micic. That's why I don't want to talk about Natasha Micic anymore. What she's been doing is going to be an object, I hope, of the work of the judicial authorities. If not now, then in the near future it's for sure. Why am I saying you didn't convince us that you were different from the Democratic Party? First, all of you were DOS and the others, and we'll see that after a few days when this Democratic Party assembly passes, it will once again confirm what has never been interrupted. You've been trying to deceive Serbian citizens for two months. First, your president self-proclaims himself prime minister, and then you self-proclaim yourself a winning party in the parliamentary elections. I told you the other day and I repeat today, you weren't in math class when you were supposed to teach that 53 is less than 82. You, gentlemen of the DSS, deceive the public of Serbia by saying that you are legalists, and you are violating the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, and you have shown this most vividly in the appointment and establishment of the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of this Parliament. You say you advocate the rule of law, for legal certainty; gentlemen, at the first and second points of the agenda of this session, you show that you are in fact introducing legal chaos into Serbia. The decision of the Administrative Board last night certainly showed that you have now come into a situation with the President and the Council and the Governor of the National Bank that they will also be illegally elected because of what you did not interrupt the session, as Kori Udovicki was illegally elected. Also, gentlemen, you deceive the public that you are a party that advocates strengthening institutions. That's not true. You don't stand for it. If you were in favour of strengthening institutions, then you would certainly have called the presidential elections by now, and Serbia would have finally won the elected president. Of course, unless you, under the strengthening of the president's institution, are thinking of strengthening the president's institution in the image of Dragan Marsican. Yesterday, Mr. Marsican was angry and offended that the MPs, several of them, said he was no different from Mrs. Natasa Micic. He's not here today, but, look, tell him, it's different though -- he's not wearing a bag on his shoulder. (President:Mrs Radeta, please stick to the subject and do not insult the President of the Assembly. I ask the MPs not to receive. Here you go. It's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the electoral censorship and the opening of the presidential election was the pre-election promise of all parties in the last election campaign. As always, the only SRS has kept its promises in the election campaign. That is why we have proposed this law, to abolish the censorship and immediately discuss presidential elections and to finally get Serbia a president. We think our law, in relation to this DSS bill, really has that ultimate goal, which is to elect a president, and this is a more comprehensive proposal. Census is an overriding category and is not known in parallel law and therefore we think there is no reason why all MPs in this House do not vote in favour of our bill. I know about the problem that's bothering you and why you care about this going on maybe another 60 days or several times in 60 days, depending on how you deal with yourself and if you agree on forming a government. Your problem, gentlemen, is that it is certainly complicated to find a common candidate DSS, SPS, G17, NS, SPO; it is really not easy for you to choose a unique and real one in this combination, but I would advise you that this is your problem and that this is not a problem for the citizens of Serbia. The problem with Serbian citizens, gentlemen, is that the government is working. You said you could provide the majority; provide, give the government and show the citizens of Serbia what you know, show the citizens of Serbia that you will stop firing workers, that you will hire the unemployed, that they will stop tearing down houses. Show that it will cease influence on courts, such as the current influence of the President of the District Court, a member of the DSS, so here, has hurried to schedule for March 3rd an SRS eviction from the premises that he is fully legally using. Show the citizens of Serbia, gentlemen, what you're going to do to reduce the number of hungry people, because citizens in Serbia have nothing to eat and they're probably sick of this story of ours and they don't care much, probably, whether we pass this law or bring the one you've proposed. Surely they are very interested when we put the SRS proposal on the agenda to put aside the Planning and Construction Act, so-called. The law on legalisation, when we will discuss putting aside the power of the Labour Act, amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, when you will stop thievery privatisation. All of this, gentlemen, you promised in the election campaign, and none of it is obviously ready to do so. When you show, DSS gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia what you know in these areas that I have listed, then be sure, and what one of your MPs said today, that in the presidential elections, Marijan Risticevic will surely be able to win both Vojislav Kostunica and Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u429	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u430	All you have to do is answer one logical nonsense. First, Mrs Radeta says -- that Dragan Marsican is the right president of the assembly, he would immediately call the presidential elections. Those elections wouldn't work again, because the censorship is 50%. Then he says -- we have a law that reduces that 50% censorship. Then you say there's no basis for calling the election. What do you want? Do you want to unfounded Martians under the old law that gives a 50% census to vote, and here you have proposed a law to abolish a 50% census? Give it to me once, Mrs. Radeta, say what you want. Let's hear what you want. Do you want the election to succeed, whether you want the election to fail, whether you want to have a candidate, you won't have a candidate, say, Mrs. Radeta. You here in one part of the exhibition say - Dragan Marsicanin should have called the election seven days ago or when he was elected he should have called the 50% vote. Then you say, we shouldn't have called the election, because those elections wouldn't have worked, and that's why we passed the law to cut the 50% price. I think it's very hard to track what you're saying in a ten-minute exposure, since you don't know where the head is or where the tail is. The fact is, one thing's true, you want the election. The election will be won and we will not run away from these choices, the elections without censorship, and then we will see how these elections end. No one here in this congregation fears anyone or escapes any choice. The election will be, thank God, this year. The Serbian government will form. You'll see who won this election, who won and who formed the government. After that, we'll see who had the votes that the citizens gave him, so we'll have presidential elections, but you once say, Mrs. Radeta, do you want a 50% censorship election and that Dragan Marsican is calling them today to remain a censorship, since the law has not yet been passed. Dragan Marscanin can call the elections and be responsible for not making the election work, so you, Mrs Radeta, explain to the Serbian citizens why you further asked to spend 10m euros on elections that will not succeed under the law, because you asked to discuss the elections. You explain that. Are you going to give 10m euros out of your pocket for those unsuccessful elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u431	As head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Vukic wants to be... (Alexander Vukic: A party is mentioned. ) Not once, please. Please, this congregation works by the rules, respects the rules, and everyone will come to order. The word "radicals" wasn't used. It was about personal persation and the word "you" was used. We'll check the stenogram. It is Mr Milan Markovic's turn to prepare Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u433	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I must first express my knowledge after these two days, and that is that this formed parliamentary and already political majority in Serbia has problems with the leadership of the Assembly, in two respects. The first aspect is the efficiency of work. I highly appreciate both Mr. Markovic and Mr. Marsican. Especially when it comes to Mr. Markovic, tolerance is a nice thing, but here the Rules of Procedure should be applied. If we did what we did in the last two hours, I think we'd get to that level of efficiency in order to lose every sense of further sitting in this House. The second aspect is the way the agenda is determined. I warned you yesterday. If you look at the agenda we've been working on this week, the first two points of the agenda are at least controversial. You can't argue with that. They are controversial from the aspect of the Constitution, the law and the principles of legal certainty. Then we got to the fourth and fifth points, and yesterday I told you that those dots have the wrong order. At the time, I said that I did not claim what it says or does not say in the Rules of Procedure, but they have the wrong order because they refer to the same question. One proposal was submitted ten days earlier, and they have standards that are contradictory, which exclude each other and are at least incompatible. Since colleagues now say "no", we are on the verge of adopting both draft laws and now very directly asking: if we adopt the proposal submitted by the DSS, which the DS will vote for, because we think it is involved and if we adopt the SRS proposal, will the National Assembly president call the elections using his mandates under the DSS proposal - within 60 days, or will he call the elections on the first day of the entry into force of this law? Please, such two laws will exist in our legal order and you can't argue that it's true. Notwithstanding that, the amendment is an integral part of the law; the amendment of the SRS was, I told some colleagues from the SRS, completely unnecessary, because it degrades the first member of the bill, which is completely clear, because you cannot argue that from the constitutional point of view, the absolute truth is that there are only two states, which is either elections for the president or the existence of a president. The third condition is unconstitutional. So this dilemma certainly exists. Now I'd like to go back to law school. The proposal, submitted by the SRS, envisions a significant newspaper in our legal order, introduces an end to the censorship of the presidential elections. There have been many arguments and many of the reasons for the SRS, and especially what concerns the current political situation, i.e. the fact that we haven't had a president in a long time. However, the parliamentary group's position as Democratic Party – Boris Tadic on this issue is completely rational and has not been changed under the pressure of these day-to-day political developments. We are aware, and there is no need to use this as an argument, that in parallel law and in comparable political systems normally works this or that system of election of the President of the Republic. There is no dilemma here, and in Serbia one and the other systems of election of the President of the Republic can work, so that the idea of abolishing the censorship could be supported, but only on one condition, which is that the overall system of the existence of the President of the Republic in our country is regulated. So, not just one segment, not only a separate, not just a way of electing the president, but what's more important, and that's the authority of that president and the way the president calls it off. These are questions that they necessarily have to forward. It's something that makes sense. I will remind you of part of the jurisdiction, since, unfortunately, this has not been discussed in the debate so far, and it is necessary, for the public to know what the President of the Republic of Serbia can do. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 83. He proposes to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Minister; candidates for the President and Judges of the Constitutional Court; he declares the laws -- but that includes the right to a suspension veto. The President of the Republic is entitled to a suspension veto with us. He then performs affairs in the area of relations between the Republic of Serbia with other states and international organisations; he manages armed forces both in peace and in war; he orders general and partial mobilisation; when the National Assembly is unable to meet, he determines the existence of a direct war threat or declares wartime status, according to the government's previously prepared opinion; on a proposal by the Government, when security of the Republic of Serbia, freedom and the rights of man and citizen or the work of state authorities are compromised, he declares the state of emergency. Then, there are these protocol powers which are mentioned by one of his colleagues: he gives pardons; he grants distinctions and recognitions established by law; he educates professional services, etc. That is all that makes one capacity for that function of the President of the Republic. Imagine that we should choose such a president of the Republic, as if we were choosing the president of the local community or the president of the congregation of tenants. Even those laws on housing and maintenance of residential buildings prescribe stricter conditions when someone wants to elect their chairman of the household parliament than we would now foresee as conditions for the election of the President of the Republic. The special story is the impeachment of the President of the Republic and less – we all already know about it. So it takes two-thirds of the MPs to first declare that he has violated the Constitution, and then it takes, not half the voters to come out, but to have half the voters vote for his impeachment, which falls into something impossible. 3.5 million people should come out and vote for his call, which assumes a 90% voter exit, because logically there will be some who will think differently. I don't think these constitutional solutions are good and you probably don't agree with these constitutional solutions either. However, this is what is stated in the Constitution, it is so, it has been criticised for years both by political parties and by various other organisations, experts, professional public etc. However, it seems to me that here, because of some of the narrow political interests or incompetence of the political elite (no one in particular is being apostrophe) that the voters may go to the elections and vote for the President of the Republic, we are resorting to it – let's change the law and everything will be fine. It just seems like, running away from responsibility, from our obligation, we close our eyes before our failure, and we say, "Here, we'll change the law, we'll change the rules of the game, and everything will be fine." Some, however, cite the reason for such an amendment to the Law of Unsupervised Election List. We're not gonna do this because there's a suspicion that the electoral lists are up to date to change the law on the election of the President of the Republic? That's just one speaker here said, and I don't think that's a very serious argument. In front of us is the adoption of a new constitution. It is something that almost all political actors in Serbia agree on. The Democratic Party will certainly do everything possible to come up with solutions that will relax our political scene. It is certainly not the best, far from that, very tense and uncertain situation in Serbia. So we'll do anything, even if it concerns the election system of the President of the Republic. We do not have an apriori negative view of how he will be elected, simply, we are simply opposed to having him intervene in something separatically because today, your candidate or our candidate becomes President of the Republic, and that a system as a whole is corrupt. We don't think there's a way to intervene in something that should be a legal system or a legal system. The laws are not adopted according to the current interests of political parties, the legislator should have one broad vision and that the laws are governed by what we call the state and, in the end, by the people we swear to all the time. That is why the DS – Boris Tadic will not support the bill we have heard here. We hope that the draft DSS law will be voted upon, that in this way we will fill the legal gap, that after that we will all do everything together to reach the new President of the Republic, in the current system, and then access the new amendment of the Constitution. And if that is the trend in some Western world that we look up to, it is going to end the censorship and change the entire position of the President of the Republic, so it is as it is in some other countries. So, we will not support this law, not because we are against censorship, but because we think that there must still be a little more responsibility here and that the previous step is to change the Constitution, to change the position of President of the Republic, and then we will easily agree on how we will choose such a President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u434	Mr. Vukic asked for a word as a representative of the parliamentary group. The next speaker will be Zoran Nikolic of the DSS. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to respond to what has been said here, and at the expense of Mrs. Radete, which was not true, which simply did not fit the facts and was not even politically correct. Mrs Radeta is one of those who knows best the law in this congregation; and when she was not in this assembly, she wrote the largest number of proposals, she knows a great deal of legal technique, and I would not try to judge her in such a way, especially if she knows much less about it. She made it clear here and I'll tell you what's going on, I'll repeat again, there's no need for some to get up or bitter because of the political attitude, or the legal logic of the Serbian Radical Party MPs who went out for this pay phone. Namely, she said – on February 4th we submitted this bill, with a proposal from Gordan Pop-Lazic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If he hadn't called the elections by then, and he didn't call it, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this was supposed to be his first point, to call the elections, and to move on to the rest of the agenda, where these agenda points would be Kosovo and Metohija, the Law on Legalisation, the Law on Privatisation, what the SRS MPs had already done (15 days before you delivered their proposals to the Serbian Parliament) in a regular and regular procedure. This is where we criticise, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, because he is the one who cares about proposing the agenda. I just wanted to warn you, Mr. Chairman. I told you twice today from this pay phone, and I would ask you to do something about it, because the decision of the Administrative Committee by the MPs in the Serbian Parliament has not been received. They received one forgery, something that was not adopted at the session of the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Serbia, and I would ask you to make the Assembly known on this issue, to discuss this, because it is not only important in the daily – political sense, but it will remain for history. The SRS has suggested that the census be abolished. We have proposed that the 50% cut-off for the presidential election in the first election tour. And now it's interesting that we find resistance to one such idea, which all the relevant political parties have accepted, in an explanation, and those who say -- well, political elites are not powerful and able to perform voters, so they shouldn't be accepted. Okay, we're not powerful enough to do 50% of the voters ourselves. Come on, you guys, let's take out 10% of the voters. You're not capable of 10 or 5%. It's important that you give lectures like some others aren't capable. We're not. Let's see who's more capable. Let's see what you can do, offer the citizens of Serbia, and have institutions. What is it that you can do without violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not to violate the laws, but to regain what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's stop talking about "some of them are incompetent." We can't make 50% of the total number of voters by ourselves, if we go to the polls on our own. Let's see how much you can do that. I don't think you can do 10%. Not even close. Let's see if we can think about it, whether it's a key reason or not. I think that today we need to be completely rational and realistic about the political scene of Serbia. It is clear that, especially after the previous elections where people voted for change, they wanted a fundamental change of government and we in the SRS think it is clear and now that people are largely dissatisfied with the creation of a new ruling majority, but about that afterwards. So, let's not dispute that kind of legality and possible decision, that's political law, we're sure that the political price will soon be paid by those who put such a power together. But in that sense, you will immediately have very clearly divided Serbia into a majority part, the opposition part, which makes up the SRS, and the minority part, just like the new government, which makes this so-called. A democratic bloc, but you will have an undeniable division in Serbia. So what do we do if only one of the representatives of those two blocs comes to mind and says, "I'm sorry, the elections are not right at this point, we don't want to have them, we don't want to go out, we don't want to accept the bill that the SRS passed." Then we'll have a new cost, and it won't be 10 million out of the pocket of anyone from the SRS, because it never was, and I didn't even see that Mr. Michaelo, who talked about it, turned their pockets for a million euros without talking about 10m euros. I didn't see anyone take from him, or anyone else, or any politician's job, or any of us can pay for it. It is the job of people sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who are authorized to find enough funding for it. So we would like to achieve as broad a political consensus as possible that this proposal is accepted, that this idea is accepted and that we go to elections and that is enough motive for all, for those who think they are much stronger than the SRS. We've listened to them today, not from one political party, from several political parties, let them go to the polls, they'll beat us then. They still don't have to worry about how many people are going to get out. If 40% of the people come out, they beat us, if that's the case. The relaxants can go to the polls because the people love them very much. I think they just resent what they know, as these first put it off for another 60 days, that the outcome of the election would be very different or quite different. In that sense, I know we're going to have a lot of problems. It wasn't an accident that one of the speakers from here announced it. I know that everyone will try in every way to minimise the number of 82 SRS MPs, and then go into a heifer and a harangus against Serbian radicals. We all know that in the SRS, because they have nothing else to deal with, except the persecution of the SRS, and we expect that. We're not running away from it. We're not afraid. You go with that, and we'll go with something else. Let's see who insisted first and foremost on forming some new government, some new government, faster – better this way to protect their huge financial interests. Let's see, here they start to arrive, you saw, big envelopes in the SRS MP group on the thieving machinations of Vuk Hamovic and his associates. We filed today, and they're not just tied to Serbia's Elektroprivreda, and don't beat yourself up, it's a big thief, not a small one. It's not someone who stole, and it's the same thing when he steals five dinars and five million dollars, but it's not five dinars. It's hundreds of millions of dollars or hundreds of millions of euros, not since yesterday, so let's see how and why these people think they'll be protected. Who is this Warrior Lazarevic? Here, we received a letter from the Apatan Shipyard, a statement from that shipyard, right after our debate today, that everything was stolen there, with the help of the people of the ruling regime (I made pleonasm, therefore from the regime), but we also have a story about how the largest business buildings in Prince Michael's street were hijacked in Belgrade, and all this is small money. That -- five million euros, that's nothing, that's for tips, that's for daily use. They spent $20 million of state money the way they thought of it, the way it suits them. Therefore, what will have to be prevented, and this will have to prevent the newly elected President of the Republic from having its influence and control function in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia... And so if these thieves, those who represent the organized international mafia, I'll tell you, there's a big world criminal with them. A world criminal who worked on the entire Balkan Peninsula has worked in all countries. (Glasses: Cane. It's not Cane. Cane is another criminal of the same Balkan format, but it's not world-class. This one's worldwide. I'll say... I didn't even hear it was Pacoli, it's possible Pacoli worked in this cement store Popovac, Mr. Michael... (President: Please return to the topic, otherwise your time is up.) Here I go. It's about a big criminal. We'll establish his name. It's American citizenship. Very soon you will find out who it is and how the stolen state of Serbia is for big, big money. That's why we've been looking for the formation of a polling committee, and that's why we insist on reducing the censorship, if you will, with all legal and legal motives. We also have this political motive, because we know that Tomislav Nikolic, when he wins, will prevent an organised international mafia from further robbing Serbia and destroying our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u436	I thank Mr. Wolf. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Nikolic, and in the meantime, let me just let you know that Social Democratic Party MPs have stepped down from the G17 Plus parliamentary group and that they will be present in the future as MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group. It is about the following MPs (I read the notice sent to the President of the National Assembly): Ljiljana Nestorović, Slobodan Lalović and Meso Omerovic; the MPs said they agreed to step out of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u437	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow MPs, since I will most likely be the last speaker today, I would like to end up in yesterday's manner. And I'm really surprised by the performance of counterpart Markovic from the Democratic Party, because we from the DSS also support Boris Tadic, and this is how he returns us to the pay phone. I would like to conclude that in today's afternoon work we had a lot of empty walking and walking and actually about the points that preceded this agenda point and the point of the agenda that was just coming. I really don't understand that approach. I think this is one of the points that, at least it seems to me, we agree, four parliamentary groups, and we could really listen to those who disagree with this point and the proposal and just move on to the next point. I don't know what this is all about, but all of this suggests that this Parliament is showing the faults he's had, and that's not to be done effectively. I would ask representatives of all political parties and all parliamentary groups to really concentrate on this agenda point. Why did I say I was surprised by the appearance of the Democratic Party's representative today? Because the Democratic Party has stated, i.e. Her MP club, she doesn't want to vote on this part of the agenda. I'll give you a simple example. Let's do a simulation as a consequence of one of these laws. In the first round, you have more presidential candidates and it is irrelevant whether more than 50% will come out or not, but more than 50% will come out, but certainly none of the candidates will have that necessary majority to be elected in the first round. However, the second round goes to two candidates and then we come to the state we already have in law form, which is that in the second round we don't need that 50%, or we don't need the censorship. That's the thing the DSS insisted on, and it's been voted in this House and, if I'm not mistaken, that's what the Democratic Party voted for. What has now changed significantly, apart from the fact that the Democratic Party may not have its own representative and that it is not interested in the upcoming presidential elections? So we were in principle and consistently at the time, and we proposed and supported, when it couldn't have been in the first round, that the censorship in the second round would not be necessary; for the same reasons and today we support that the census would not be a condition in the first round. I am surprised that the party that is pursuing rapid steps towards Europe does not respect European standards, because if we look at European experiences, I would like someone to come out here and tell me in which country there is this 50% condition, or a 50% censorship. So, the thing is very simple. I think that this amendment and the addition of the Law on the Election of the President will be voted on, not because there are coalitions here, but in the extreme line for one simple reason, I saw today, I suppose you all saw it, too, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent us a letter proposing to the National Assembly not to accept the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Election of Presidents. It is clear that when a government sends a letter like this, and has a foothold in parliament of 10%, that such a law will certainly pass in this House, not because there is a coalition between the DSS, the Radical Party or G17 and some other party, six parties or four parties, it is irrelevant, but because something happened and changed after 28 December, which is that there is a different Assembly and different MPs here and that, by the rule, everything that this government is leaving and we will soon see its back, it is not possible for this Parliament to pass, or it will be supported with modest 24 to 37 MPs. So it's a practical state. On many occasions, the DSS has been named as a party entering some kind of coalition. I said that we were in favour of abolishing the census last year, which is what we are now, so we stick to our principles and principles, and we don't change anything about it. There are no coalitions. But there is a coalition capacity that the DSS has, in fact, democratic capacity, which means the following – all that is good for the citizens and what is good for the state, regardless of which parliamentary group and party suggests it in this parliament, the DSS will support it on behalf of these citizens and on behalf of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-20-0.u438	Please, in accordance with Article 81, since the law we are considering is an emergency procedure, I decide to continue our work Monday at 10.00 hours.
