ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3734	We have submitted an amendment to this article first of all in order not to devalue what the promoter wrote in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is one right that belongs to every person who is deprived of liberty, which is the right to demand at any time that he is examined without delay by a doctor of his choice, and if he is not available, by the body that deprived him of liberty. As regards this particular article, 228, this refers to the stage of the investigation procedure and then is authorised and required by the investigating judge, first and foremost, to enable such review. With this amendment, we want to draw attention to another fact, that we have several different situations when a doctor comes in criminal proceedings. One is the situation where, by choice, the persons who have been detained as his doctor performs the examination. The second situation is when an expert is ordered, regardless of the stage of criminal proceedings. This is the third variant, intervariant, when it appears to be necessary to carry out that review, but if it is carried out, as you stated in Article 7(2), at the request of a person deprived of liberty, then it is nevertheless the right granted to him by Article 2. So not only the doctor, but everyone else who belongs to that profession, which is recognised by international standards. The lack of this intervention of yours is, above all, that there are no medical findings in all of this. There's a statement on the record, an investment, etc., but there's no medical records anywhere. Mr. Jojic talked about the situation where this is happening and what practice it is. It's a practice -- a prison doctor, if there is, if not, then from some medical institution. It doesn't matter at all on what basis and why you're really looking for this review, whether the defendant is looking for him because he's been beaten, whether he's looking for a prosecutor to find out that he's not beaten, whether or not any of the relatives who don't trust anyone, but wants to confirm the state of health of a person deprived of liberty. Of course, the amendment calls for it to be arranged, and we also want to draw attention to the fact that it is the electoral right of prisoners to come and examine it, to give their findings and their opinions, to combine the findings and opinions with the files of the case, to be an integral part of the criminal case, to have insight into the overall process being conducted. We have to say that we are still in a phase where the presummation of innocence is still valid for that person in custody. Whether you adopt or do not adopt this amendment, I think there is room to take a closer look at these provisions that regulate the rights of the defendant, not only in terms of the declaration, but in terms of what can in fact be made possible to the man who is detained. Standards exist, solutions exist, practice exists, only it needs to be adequately translated into our law and insist that it is actually applied as it is written.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3735	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Bozidar Koprivica and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović submitted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3736	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 27. The draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure is deleted, because it is a pointless provision that the internal affairs authority can carry out its own insight and determine the art of criminal acts, for which a prison sentence can be imposed for up to ten years, therefore, very serious crimes. In other words, it would mean that the authorities of the precipice procedure, the police, can discern and determine the art without an investigative judge, and for these serious crimes, which is really pointless and inadmissible. Here it bypasses, practically, an investigative judge as an expert body which, I think, cannot be replaced by an internal affairs body. The Internal Affairs Authority is not professional or qualified to take these actions. Gentlemen, this shows that you are truly underestimating the judicial authorities, i.e. You don't let them do their job, and you trust their work to other non-professional authorities, which is a direct interference in the work of the judicial authorities and a kind of attack on the judiciary. Dear People's MPs, I urge you to adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3737	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3738	In fact, there's a problem with these insights and the relationship between the internal affairs authorities and the prosecution-investigation judge. So there's a problem in fact, and there's some justification for giving wider authority that without the presence of an investigative judge, the internal affairs authorities can do these insights. But I don't think you've found the right measure, as far as the 10-year sentence is concerned. In order not to repeat what my predecessor stated, I would just draw attention to the fact that there is a position 2 in this Article 238. It's not covered by the amendment, but I'm drawing attention, because it's about these positions 3 and 4 where the bill of law has been intervened, that in practice some things don't happen exactly like this. It's about a certificate of confiscation. I'll give a specific example, probably known to everyone. Republika Srpska's interior ministry, while Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, in the image of his traffic assistant, some Colonel Stojadin Jovanovic, has brought a solution to the suspension of the traffic license, seized plates and seized SRS jeep. Twice, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia decided on it, annulled in the administrative dispute all these things and returned, probably more with a warrant for the jeep to return. Now I'm going back to the confiscation certificate. Some confirmation has been made, since there was allegedly some kind of criminal act, and I remind you of article 82, which says that at the court's request it can be done. There was no court order. Confirmation was thrown on some street, if anyone wanted to take it, and the kidnapping was done outside the presidency building. Such a criminal act has never been conducted, and in all submissions, the Ministry of the Interior has always changed the basics, motives and reasons for taking away the jeep. It was first taken because it was the subject of blood work, the second time it was the request of a foreign organisation, for the third time there is no act of availability and who knows how many times this Dusan Mihajlovic would change the reasons, conditions and basics just to prevent and prevent the return. There's no sanction for anyone who doesn't give a damn. It's probably, more widely observed, abuse of official duty, probably a crime, unwitting work, or I don't know what else. It was likely in this article that if the items returned, they would need to be done either with some confirmation or with some record. I'm taking this opportunity to draw attention to the government's representatives to take this into account and to sort of regulate this situation, because some times, in the context of insight, it's been taking away objects, it's giving one basis, and I'm not talking about a change of qualifications, so maybe in the beginning, there was one title and a 10-year sentence threatened, and after 15 days, there's a qualification that this is some work that's been prescribed for up to three years in prison. That's why this amendment was given to point out that danger and the possibility of abuse, and when someone deprives himself of freedom, then there are the most dangerous abuses. The consequences of abuse are most dangerous, for the most direct action is made on man's personality, on his reputation, on dignity and on his life.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3739	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3740	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, hundreds and hundreds of insights I've done and I'm familiar with practice, so I'd like to give you the impressions of what it looks like in practice. To give authority to internal affairs authorities so that they can gain insight into criminal acts for up to 10 years is indeed something that cannot be accepted for a number of reasons. One of the basic reasons is - who's going to find out now that it's a crime that's been threatened by a 10-year sentence. Will someone please tell me that the police are all graduate lawyers with a criminal trial? There are professional people in the police force, but we haven't reached that level yet so we can say that the police can look into crimes for up to 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a general practice that judges will avoid going to the sights when it rains, when it's snow, when it's after. They'll be told by the Home Office's services that it's a criminal offense, but the judge will say-- please, I can't make it and I can't come to make an insight, so take over to see you do it. Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this house is passing laws that need to be applied in practice, what should this home serve, and what authorities should perform their function? This job has to be done by the court, not by the police. The question arises: the quality of the collection and the security of evidence. What you're going to do tomorrow, there's a crime scene that's been missed to record clues and cases of crime, which has been very common in practice. It is the judge who has to assess, because it is a criminal offense, to order the crime scene to photograph the scene, to order the confiscation of the case, to order the fixation of traces of the crime, especially in the case of car accidents, in the case of burglary, in the case of serious bodily injuries or other crimes for which the sentence is prescribed for up to 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 80% of the crimes committed in the Republic of Serbia are committed in crimes for which the prison sentence is prescribed for up to 10 years. There will be serious abuses here by the judge. They'll always say, "We couldn't get to the bottom of it, we're leaving it to the police." No, look, and the evidence has to be provided by the police, assisted, provided by the judge and the public prosecutor to see. This is how we freed the general judges and prosecutors to look into criminal acts for up to 10 years, which is what we leave to the police. It's unacceptable, and that's why they're going to report in practice... and the established practice is even earlier, so we've prevented the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure from changing these provisions. If it were proposed here that an investigative judge who could not have come to his senses must have made a statement (and he was an investigative judge) why he did not go to the scene to make an insight and that his statement was made available in the case, and on the other hand that the president of the court as an elder of the judicial authority carried out control where the investigating judge was responsible for the conduct of a criminal offence for which a sentence of up to 10 years could be imposed by law. That is why we propose that this article be deleted and we propose that the amendment of the SRS be accepted, because it is absolutely logical and will improve this bill as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3741	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government accepts the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3742	We had to submit an amendment, because we are against the conduct of a mandate procedure in criminal proceedings. This change that you propose concerns Article 449. That member and those 10 members behind him should certainly not exist in our Code of Criminal Procedure. In order to understand what is going on – what is guaranteed by the Charter in criminal proceedings, which is to carry out a public search and, in accordance with the law, to bring a verdict on someone's guilt, this member is denied because he says: "For crimes which can be fined as the main sentence or sentence of prison for up to three years, the judge may, on a proposal from the public prosecutor, make a solution to the punishment and without maintaining the main search." The government just added this "or the prison sentence of up to three years". So it's increased the possibility that without a major search it's possible to decide someone's responsibility. According to international conventions, this is not allowed, as the investigative judge is not allowed to punish, as there is no place in this law or Article 236, where it is said - the public prosecutor may, with the court's consent, delay criminal prosecution if the defendant accepts one of the measures. The measures are very correct, but it's not matter for this law. It could be for the Public Prosecution Act. We are opposed to what you have now inserted "with the consent of the court" because, in practice, you are putting the court in the process of considering the public prosecutor whether there is a basis for prosecution and whether he is going to prosecute or not. I'm not going to give you examples of possible abuses if criminal charges have been filed by some criminal person, so the public prosecutor is going to do a job, so he comes into this position to guess whether he's going to initiate a criminal trial or in this situation to accept some measure, to make a sponsorship contribution to a humanitarian organization, so he doesn't punish himself for committing a crime, especially without a major investigation or especially what's in there – that at the stage of the investigation, the investigative judge can do it. In our legislation, they should not exist in these provisions, they should not exist because of the accused, regardless of what is said in these provisions, or they may find their silent consent to do this job as stated. The public investigation is required by the stage of determining any guilt and it must be maintained, as all standards say that on the basis of a public search, in accordance with the law, with all guarantees provided to the accused in respect of minimum rights that he has to protect his rights, only then can he make an appropriate verdict, whether it is judgmental or acquittal. On the occasion of these amendments and these members that I have now cited, of course, it is not the invention of this government that has proposed to change these members, it is something that has been inherited since the time when Grubač proposed the Code of Criminal Procedure. There is room, there is a basis to get this out of the legal system, because it is contrary to international law norms, and according to the Constitutional Charter, they even have primate over domestic law. It can't be a domestic right to be contrary to international law. Everyone here swears to some internationally recognised standards, and when we get to the field of the concrete, then there's some reason, there's some excuse, let's change something. I agree it may be more effective for the court, but it's contrary to standards. As you can see, over all these amendments, we've only dictated internationally recognised standards. We didn't do some making-up, we just showed what's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3743	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. The minister explained in detail in the presentation for which reasons he did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3744	Dear ladies and gentlemen, after a three-day debate, we have exhausted all the amendments, so I would just like to say a few words concerning these last discussions. As far as this insight is concerned, I just want to point out that there's an incorrect interpretation here. The internal affairs authority, which makes an insight, has no authority to carry out evidence of skill. That's all an investigative judge can give a warrant to do. So it was a mistake, I guess, a lapus in the discussion. As far as the questions of punishment are concerned before the trial and this matter of delaying prosecution can really be discussed, but it cares about the following point: if you have the possibility, when you look at all the other provisions, which is to ask the accused, listen, so you have the consent to the investigative judge to impose such a sentence, then we get what the conventions we have called upon, to say that the court can impose a sentence, so there is a satisfied condition. If the defendant and his defender are not satisfied with the decision, the moment of the statement of objection shall be searched and, therefore, shall not be damaged in any way by their right to defence and, possibly, if they consider that such a decision has violated their right. As for this delay, I'd like to say right now that there was a little dilemma. It was thought that the key reason for bringing these newspapers was the following: the possibility of delaying persecution for the so-called “treasury. ” Easier criminal acts. It was considered that it was much more important that in the middle it would be accepted, in the fact that there was a element of volunteering. That's what's important about this case. For example, I will take what we have stated: if it is alcoholism or drugs, it is extremely important to achieve volunteering in eliminating harmful consequences. I don't think that should be missed. The court's inauguration was introduced for one single reason. It's still about what's called. A quasi-judicial post, given that the prosecutor would have the opportunity to determine the measure. In this situation, this consensus of the court was introduced in order to avoid such a situation. I'd like to say something in the end and express my pleasure. These three days, the congregation really looked like what I think one law-making body should look like. I must thank all the MPs who participated, because indeed, all the discussions were about the proposed laws and that professional plan. In a good number of cases we did not have the same opinions, however, each opinion expressed was publicly explained and I say, it is now a matter of assessing whether it can be accepted or not. I immediately want to say that these changes are proposed by emergency procedure, but the final, complete text will be incorporated into it and the other standards that we have found are not available at this time; in this particular situation, a number of remarks that could really be accepted in this complete work and how they will find their place. For these reasons, I really thank you, because I have seen this as co-operation and help for that future work on the complete creation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3745	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. On the basis of Article 38(3) and (4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that MP Milisav Petronijevic will represent the parliamentary group of the SPS, in the absence of the president of the parliamentary group, when considering the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of education and education systems. On the basis of Article 38. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group for item 1 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, i.e. point 2, will be the National MP Zlatan Jovanovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Educational and Vascular Systems (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoran Ćirković; Svetislav Krstić and Miloje Savić; Zvonimir Stević and Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradović; Hranislav Perić; Esad Judžević; Bajram Omeragić; Slobodan Vučković; Anita Beretić; Bojan Pajtic; Boško Ristić; Dragoljub Živić; Aleksandar Radosavlić; Mirožavić; Slobodan Pajović; Vladimir Jožević; Goran Knezić; Gordana Čomić; Gordana Čomić Čomić; Aleksandar Vlavić; Dragažana Lakić-Stojić; Ležavić; Lejla Ruždić-Trifović; Dragažić; Goran Krajvić-Trišić; Miljeljović; Miljavić; Miljavić; Miljavić; Miljavić Kljević; Miložić Kljuvić; Miložić; Miloš Kljuvić; Miložvić; Milović; Milović; Milović; Milo Kljuk Albić Albić, Miljudić; Gorjudić; Gor Žović; Gor Žović; Gorjuk; Gorko M.; Gorjavić; Gorović; Gorović; Gor. National MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic withdrew the amendment by written amendment to Article 16, MP Branislav Blažic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 40, MPs Milojub Albianic, Nadica Momirov and Snezana Plasic-Stojanovic, in writing, withdrew the amendments to Articles 38 and 44. The amendments to be submitted until the start of the original search will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. SRS - one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS - one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds; DS - 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds; SPO-NS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds. Members who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, five minutes per article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposaler's representative, Professor Ljiljana Colic, Minister of Education, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3746	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry of Education and Sports has prepared a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System whose text you have in front of you, with that explanation which clearly points to the reasons for our legislative initiative, and we believe that the proposed amendments speak for themselves enough about the need for their adoption. However, let me look at those elements in a brief statement that I think deserve a special consideration. First of all, we have approached this business with the aim of adapting the concept of development of the overall system of education and education to the times and conditions in which this process can take place with us in a systematic, rational and proper manner, with retained tendencies contained in the existing law and taking into account the dynamics of change and development of the European system of education and education of developed countries. The proposed legal framework enables comprehensive consideration of the educational process from the start to the end of education, and not only its parts; this is the characteristic of existing laws: rigid division into cycles, with an unchangeable structure established. At the same time, it opens up the possibility of permanent checks, analysis and modification of teaching content achieved. May I have your attention, please? The change in the organisation of work in the field of quality of education and education has been demonstrated by the introduction of a national educational council instead of three existing councils. The National Educational Council elects the Assembly, not the Government, as has been the case so far, on the basis of a proposal from authorised proposings, and on a number of candidates. The composition of the advice is designed to ensure the representation of different structures from the ranks of competent persons, undoubtedly professional integrity in the fields of science and education and work of importance for the problem of education. We are sure that this choice of council will represent the interests of all Serbian citizens in the field of education and provide the broadest social support for reforms without which it could not be implemented in practice. The competence of the National Educational Council in the adoption of the general basics of pre-school programmes, curricula and programmes and the basis of the educational programme, then establishing standards of quality of education and education by levels and species, as well as standards of continuous professional training of education staff, points to our intention to entrust strategic issues to this institution. So one part of the ministry's jurisdiction was transferred to the Council, which is why we wanted to respect the understandable and necessary need for decentralisation in the process of making the most important decisions. In order to improve the development of education and education systems, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to be the founder of an education and education institution, which will consist of strategic development centres, for the development of programmes and textbooks, for the professional development of educational staff and for professional and artistic education. It also provides for the establishment of an institution to evaluate the quality of education and education, which will, among other things, monitor the consistency of the system of evaluation, quality assurance of education and education with European comparative systems of evaluation and quality assurance in the mentioned area. Within their competences, the institutions prepare the necessary materials for the work of the Council and the Ministry. The process of designing and implementing education policy in Serbia at the level of pre-school, primary and secondary education will take place in the co-operation of the National Educational Council, the Institute and the Ministry, and the competences and work of these bodies are contained in the proposed text of the law. The projected organisation of work in the coordination of councils, institutes and ministries will contribute to more efficient work, as well as better use of the Ministry's human resources. On the institutional plan, we also left room for flexibility, without closing the possibility of other institutions being set up in accordance with possible newly created or subsequently reflected needs. In this regard, we would like to stress that the existence of a certain institution as such does not in itself mean a guarantee that the work under its jurisdiction will be carried out properly. Our real, essential concern for those categories of persons who won't recognize themselves in the names of the proposed centres will be shown in a very practical way, and that is much more than declarative. The planned changes in the duration of primary school education are eight years, with the gradual introduction of a preparatory school programme, with a system of compulsory education for nine years. Graduality of switching to the nine-year-old system minimises the possibility that the same class is attended by students with a large range of years i.e. that some students finish primary school when they were 14, and others when they were 16. It also prevents children of different ages from being mastered by the same program. Bringing down mandatory nine-year-old education to a younger age, through the preparatory school programme, enables the necessary adaptation of children to schools, and especially the unification of students' knowledge and socialization. At the same time, space is left for four-year secondary education where necessary, without moving the school's limit to older age. In the proposed text of the law, amendments have been made to the work relating to the general and specific basics of the school programme. Instead, curricula and programmes will be the basis for the adoption of school programmes. In short, curriculas contain mandatory and electoral items per grade in primary and secondary education. The educational programmes shall specify the objectives, objectives and tasks of the education programme, as well as the content of mandatory and electoral subjects. School programs, among other things, define both university classes and their contents. So we have kept the existing division of the subject to mandatory, electoral and universityal, aware of the need for students from the earliest age to focus on disciplines in which they can achieve the best results, and the school will continue to have a certain degree of freedom in the design of teaching activities. However, these freedoms will be reduced to a reasonable extent and the practice so far will be removed that some high schools, even with 70%, create their own programme. You will allow it, but it is about education whose quality the state must control and comply with the needs of society. As for the professional training of teachers, it will be coordinated by the Centre for Professional Development, based on unique programmes and unique criteria for each individual type of improvement. This significant activity must not be left to the unequal possibilities of local self-government, some of which will not be able to, and some will not be ready to recognise their interest in it. Whoever carefully and unsuspectingly reads the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System will be convinced that democratisation, decentralisation and depoliticalisation are more present than in the existing and valid version. On many occasions, we have been asked the question of who wrote this law. His changes were written by economic circumstances and opportunities in which we live, on the basis of possible and feasible; to encourage a number of responses, collective and individual performances of teachers in education, professional associations of teachers, teachers' societies, professors and lecturers of teacher colleges and representatives of trade unions. The text of the law in front of you is also the result of official official reports of school administrations throughout Serbia, as well as professional services in the Ministry of Education and Sports itself regarding the course and problems you start reforming education. Education in Serbia has a long tradition, worth every respect, and no reform, however necessary and justified, should fully suppress or ignore that tradition. We should enter the European area of education by respecting all the innovation and change needs that such a process implies and which we are ready to achieve and respect. There's no need for us to go into that space empty-handed. After all, generations of our experts around the world have contributed to the progress of modern civilization. Education needs to be deprived of excessive and unnecessary content, plans and programmes need to be amended, different approaches to learning and teaching, continued teacher training should be supported. It is also necessary to change the relationship between participants in the process of education and education, the relationship between students – teacher – parent. They must get a new character, but with each other respecting the specific role of each of these subjects, so that the school order does not grow into anarchy and thus violate the purpose of education, and it cannot be achieved without a certain level of education and discipline. Serbia needs educated, highly-trained young people, whom the school will not wear out and disorient, but rather awaken a lasting desire for new knowledge, for new professional challenges. Students should be allowed to recognize their individual tendencies and abilities in elementary school and develop them, to gain awareness of their own origin, culture and tradition of the people they belong to, but also of the environment in which they live, with full openness to others and respect for all differences. If the proposed bill is adopted, the centre of the education reform for which we take full responsibility will be those who need to implement the reform in practice, whose trust, expertise and conscience we leave children and youth to Serbia, our most precious public well-being, the most important resource and most valuable capital investment. Finally, I would like to stress that Serbia is missing a state-run education strategy, which will take into account all the relevant facts: therefore, demographic factor, the overall social climate and conditions, the projection of economic development and the staff that this development should achieve. But this can't be the task just of the Ministry of Education, but of the relevant professional and scientific institutions, other resolution ministries, the government in general, but also of this home where we are today. I thank the members of the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for their engagement to contribute to improving the solutions offered through the consideration of the proposed amendments. Unfortunately, some suggestions and suggestions could not be respected because there is practically an international model of state planning and relations between central and local authorities. We are obliged to apply that matrix, even when it seems to us that certain problems in our country would be regulated in a different way. European integration involves a number of compromises and coordinations, but they are necessary unless we want to be a desert island in the middle of the inhabited world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3747	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you are, People's Messenger to Natasa Micic. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3748	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of article 79. Rules of Procedure: "The President of the National Assembly shall set out the day and hour of the meeting of the National Assembly, with a proposal for a agenda at least seven days before the date for which the sitting is convened." The second point is: "Extremely, notice of the time of session and agenda can be delivered within a short period, with the National Assembly president obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session". [[Laughter]] Where have you been? ) Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that at the beginning of this session, the President of the Assembly explained why he had scheduled the session and delivered the agenda in the short term, but this is about the violation of Article 80(2) in which this is interpreted as – extremely, not as - a rule. I would just like the President of the Assembly to give me an explanation of how many sessions are scheduled by the rule, not by the exception. So the exception can't be interpreted as a rule, with a lot of understanding that we're a country in transition and that you want to achieve as much as possible, but, of course, there's no way that an exception is a rule. I'm asking the president, or the chairman, to give me an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3749	I think the president of the assembly initially gave an explanation. If you are not satisfied with this explanation, you can ask to vote on it and in voting day to vote whether the Rules of Procedure is injured or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3750	I'm not happy with the explanation, because I said that I know that an explanation was given at the beginning, but I'm looking for an explanation as to why the exception is interpreted as a rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3751	In voting day, the assembly will declare your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3752	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of article 96, I'm reporting again for the word, that's the violation of Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3753	No, please, you really have to go to the place, so we'll...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3754	Well, that's for your savings and efficiency, and I'm still going to show the Rules of Procedure again. Please read Article 96. [[Sagar.]] So, I get the word after the presentation of the previous speaker ends. I'm referring to article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3755	What attitude? (The President of the Assembly enters the hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3756	Great. Mr. President, I'm calling for article 96. (Glasses: Get back to your seat.) ) Since you have not made a new Rules of Procedure, I must get out of this - "to a national MP who wants to talk about the violations of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The MP is obliged to state which provision, in his opinion, is injured (what I have done), which consists of an injury, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. "Did I get my word, Mr. President? I'm advertising a breach of Article 157. Rules of Procedure. I quote: "The law can be carried out exceptionally by emergency procedure. Only a law governing issues and relations can be adopted following an urgent procedure due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of the law under emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations." The second point is, "The legislator is obliged to state in writing the adverse consequences that would result from the adoption of this law by emergency procedure." Mr. President, in the position of Article 157(2), a cumulative fulfilment of the conditions is required. Therefore, to regulate issues and relations arising under circumstances that could not be predicted, and in particular to indicate the adverse consequences of the non-compliance of the law. In the reasons that we have received from the legislator, which is quite unmistakable, there is no fulfilment of the first conditions, i.e. there are no circumstances, so I would ask the legislator, and in accordance with Article 220 and the chairman of the Justice Committee, to provide us with an explanation – which are circumstances which could not be prevented. I would like to remind all the MPs that this law, which today is on the agenda, as the minister herself said, is a very important law that regulates the matter that is the most sensitive and most important part of our society, which is our young. So I ask the Minister, in accordance with Article 220, not to quote him, and if you want me to quote him, to give me an explanation - what are the circumstances, which are not. The time to quote, by Article 96, doesn't count. It's time to learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3757	I know, of course, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... [[Sagar.]] Just a minute. May I have your attention, please? There is no cause for disdain, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gašo Knezevic, and according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. In the meantime, please... I'm sorry... (Natasa Micic, from the post: First let the minister give an explanation. )......................................................................................................... Of course, well, please, Mrs. Micic, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to all those who ask the Rules of Procedure to explain. And of course we'll invite the minister to give an explanation. Well, that's normal, but I'm asking for a little patience. You have no reason to... At the same time, I ask the professional service, since, at the beginning of the day, the argument was read and the basis was stated, and since, of course, there was an additional argument prepared, to bring it to me from the secretariat, please, the beginning of the session, because some MPs obviously weren't there and they don't know the explanation by the Rules of Procedure, so they're looking for it today. We'll read it again, it's not hard. Here you go, Mr. Prince, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3758	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, gentlemen, I would also like to advertise Article 157, because what is written in the light of the law is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and there is no more serious explanation, in fact it is simply prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Also, if it goes like this, I'm asking the Management Board to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3759	Mr. Knezevic, in order not to be on the wrong track alone, a decision has long been made not to declare the Administrative Committee, but the Assembly during the work of this call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3760	Thank you. I'm not a proceduralist. Thank you very much. Secondly, I'm advertising Article 90. - the total time for debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours. I suggest you double the time. The reasons are next. The law was passed by emergency procedure, as did all others who were brought by this congregation. In the procedure of its adoption, between the periods when the draft turned into a proposal at the cabinet session, no debate was held, no kind. That's one reason. As a result, it should be possible for this congregation to have at least a part of the debate carried out more seriously. I agree with Madam Minister, because of the importance of the law and our public shows great interest in this law, I think the opportunity for this debate to be conducted in front of the cameras. Then, the law itself has a lot of amendments, which shows that there is a great interest not only in the public, which I know exists, but also in the MPs of this congregation. That's why I'm going to ask you to put on a motion to double the time it takes to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3761	Thank you. Unfortunately, I'm not in a position to take back time. As you know, the point of the motion for an extended debate has passed and the search has begun. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3762	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. President, I went out to advertise Article 202. Rules of Procedure. In public, it has been said that the economy minister, Mr. Marsican, who is otherwise also the presidential candidate of the coalition that supports the government, has resigned. I believe that's true. But, if that is true, that resignation was to be submitted to the President of the Assembly in accordance with Article 202, and the President of the Assembly had to attend the first next session, which is this session, to enable MPs and the Assembly to establish that resignation I'm sorry if I missed it, but I didn't get a chance to see it. [[Heads from bench: It's been established.]] Since we started this session with two days late and we've been together with the quorum, it's obvious I missed something. I apologize to the MPs, but I haven't had a chance to see that continuing resignation in the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3763	You also heard from MPs, the resignation of Economy and Privatisation Minister Dragan Marsicanin was submitted in writing to the president of the Assembly, who met him at the first session, it was the 11th session. The assembly is familiar, the resignation has been established, it has been there for 15-20 days, and all MPs have received it in writing. I ask the MPs to attend, not to you, to the sessions and to follow what is happening, not to you, but to what is before, or to follow the materials. We can remind those who have not been these days: this session began by reading the reasons for calling a session within a short period of time and another day from which, according to Article 81(1). Rules of Procedure, they're holding sessions. If the majority agrees, I will read it again to the minority who did not participate in the work of the congregation these days. It's easier to read again. "According to Article 80(2) and Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session exclusively for Friday and postponed for Monday, as well as within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the Proposal for a Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, for which the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has proposed that an emergency procedure be considered. "This was read by the president of the assembly at 4:00 p.m. on a direct TV broadcast Monday. If you are not satisfied with the reminder and the explanation, the National Assembly will, according to the Rules of Procedure, in the day of voting on the matter to be declared. You've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just for the sake of efficiency, to help you, I hope it's not an observation to supplement the agenda, because I used analogy and I have documentation on analogy with additions to the agenda last year. It wouldn't be pleasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3764	Mr. President, I did not advertise the provision of Article 79, which indicates that the president is obliged to give us an explanation of why he called the session in the short term, but I advertised Article 2, where it is said that it can only be done exceptionally. But in this congregation, it's a rule. So I ask and ask for the information to be delivered -- how many sessions are scheduled by the rules of this Rules of Procedure, and how many by the exception? Now I'm advertising a violation of Article 221. Rules of Procedure. I quote - "the MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials to other republican authorities and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "I have already asked the Minister and President of the Assembly to explain to me in the previous presentation, following the violation of Article 157, which were circumstances that could not be predicted, which is why the law was passed. Another question for the minister -- when she thinks the teaching staff is getting dressed and the children are getting ready, in two months' time during the summer, to print out textbooks and everything else. So I'm asking for an explanation from the president of the assembly and from the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3765	Thank you. Are you going in writing or oral? - It's oral. ) Then please, I am standing at your disposal in the cabinet on Monday 31 May 2004 at 12.00 hours for all explanations, so that we do not deprive citizens of the time in which they work, since it is not necessary to submit during the session itself. Please, this is serious, there's no reason to be excited. Please, ma'am, I'm not telling you, I'm telling the MPs. There's no reason for this reaction. Be kind, the laws are important, the tensions are normal, I understand all the MPs that have grown, it is important that we strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, do our job and, accordingly, ask the Minister of Education to also give us a notice that we would meet with the MP who did not receive adequate notice in the previous period, in this case Mrs. Micic, and any MP who asks for it in the future. As so far, he will be able to get, either in writing, or in oral form, any kind of clarification that is possible. Thank you. Once again according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Micic. The right of MPs to report to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3766	Mr. President, I thank you for the invitation, and I will come very gladly and privately if I have to talk to your cabinet, but I have advertised this provision because I think it's important for the public and I have done it not for myself but for the public. I believe this law contains one of the most sensitive and most important substances that this congregation should regulate. Therefore, I believe that MPs need to have an explanation as to why this law is passed so quickly and by an urgent procedure. I'll remind you that in the previous term, this law has stood for several months in the procedure and has not been brought in by emergency procedure. I seek, for the sake of the public, and for the sake of the fellow Members, to give us a public explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3767	I thank you for your well-meaning, but I've scheduled an official meeting. I don't use a pay phone for private relations. I said Monday for a very simple reason, the president of the assembly is on his way on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. That's the only reason. You'd get an explanation much sooner, and I want it to be adequate. Since it is important for the public to know, the law is available to lawmakers for over 20 days and we will discuss it during the search. The period was used for various arrangements, alignments and in the opening address of the minister has informed that a large number of amendments have been adopted, some unfortunately are not possible, all of which are part of the presence of the law and the interest of all MPs who are professional and interested in working on this issue. Please continue your work. Do the Committee's reporters want a word? The word has a folk MP Nenad Lemajic, in front of the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3768	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, it is my honor and pleasure to present on behalf of the Committee on Education to the National Assembly a report on the amendment and addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Education is an area of strategic interest for each country. Such a system by nature of things must reflect a degree of conservativeity, which is viewed through care for the preservation of the traditional educational and ethical values of society. At the same time, it must be open to all the challenges of the present and to all that bring numerous changes to which the modern world is exposed in all fields. It is not easy to respond correctly to the challenge of conservativeity and modernization of the system at the same time. In the 1990s, they put the educational systems of European countries ahead of this great dilemma. Some countries have solved them in different ways, but the common line is undoubtedly related to major changes within the system, both in organisational and substantive terms. None of these changes went without a heated debate that caused conflicts among different social groups. Trapped in its isolation, Serbia missed the opportunity in the last decade to adapt its education system to both its environment and its own needs. A prerequisite for the successful restructuring of this largest system in Serbia, which employs over 100,000 people, including more than a million students and students, should certainly be a comprehensive public debate. Any change must be based on a relatively wide pedagogical, political and general consensus, however much it is not easy to come by. Our education system has been exposed over the past three years to significant modernization and innovation efforts. In much of what the reformer's enthusiasm reminded him of a famous reform that had gripped the former Yugoslavia in half of the 1970s, and is known as the Shuvar reform. Shuvar's reform was, let's remind ourselves, based on the educational experience of Sweden, which was then considered a leader of innovation in education and was given exceptional recognitions for its model by UNESCO. Unfortunately, in Yugoslavia, the application of the Swedish educational model ended in a disaster, the consequences of which have been felt by many generations, and the reform has been halted almost a decade later, leaving long-term traumas, both within the education system itself and in the general public. Studying the so-called system. Shuvar's school, I'm prepared to claim that at the level of an abstract theoretical model, that concept is well set up, but it failed because it did not correspond to our reality, practice and tradition. In a way, this story is repeated today in the recent past. The high objectives have been introduced by education reformists from the previous period. Instead of dealing with problems that are real on the path of reform, they have often been bypassed in practice. The reform tripped during the public debate, which took place in three stages, known as the work titles – Talks on Reform, We in Reform and Talks on Curricular Reform. Instead of seeking out new approaches at the beginning of the reform, reformers courageously moved forward, trying to impose their view of these significant processes by means of a method of post-revolutional exclusion. The polemics that followed led to a very significant polarisation of the pedagogical public, creating an atmosphere for and against, with a mutual argument that lost any constructiveity. All of these reasons have rightly indicated that the Ministry of Education and Sports should propose amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, with a view to restoring this important issue to the frameworks suitable for quality discussion. All issues that are controversial are being changed back to the discussion, but what is undoubtedly a significant innovation contribution of the previous period remains. The most significant quality that these amendments to the law are related to the formation of a national educational council as a body in which the debate on how and the pace of reform will be conducted in the coming period. We believe that the work of this body will create a platform on the pathways of education reform, which will create a broad consensus necessary for such a significant and exceptional job. For all of these reasons, the Committee is behind the Ministry's proposal to prevent the possible side of the reform of the education system through amendments to the law, and this problem opens up for a broad and very reasoned debate. Most Committee members felt that the proposed National Education Council must be a body in which these pedagogical and professional discussions will be conducted. Because of the importance of education, the opinion prevailed that the National Educational Council was formed as a body responsible to the Assembly, with the task of creating a national strategy in education. The results of his work and discussion should certainly be politically verified in the Assembly. Appreciateing such a measured and responsible approach by the Ministry of Education and Sports towards a very serious problem of education, the Committee members, with only one vote against, decided to support the Bill's amendment and supplementation and recommended that the Serbian Assembly accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3769	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3770	Unlike Mrs Micic, who does not have the moral right to intervene over irregularities that are evident, because in the previous period she sat at the seat of the presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and did what the current leadership is doing, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the way these sessions are convened and set out the agenda. We of the SRS have a total moral right, because we have pointed to these irregularities in the past. That's what happens again in this session. In these 80 days, as far as the government of the Republic of Serbia is working, perhaps no proposal has arrived in the regular procedure. It was all an emergency procedure, everything was quick, everything was deprived of the possibility that MPs could study material quality and give quality amendments. Also, the president of the National Assembly just said something that isn't true, which isn't, and that's his claim that we got this law 20 days ago. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education we received on Monday, I don't remember exactly what date it was, but it was nine days ago, and it entered the Assembly on May 14th. So 12 days ago he was admitted by the congregation service. The session was scheduled for Friday. So, from Monday to Friday, there was a time left for MPs to prepare and intervene with the amendments, which is extremely short. We lost Friday and Monday because of deals and trade between coalition partners, and now pressure is being put on, not to say the blackmail of MPs, that all this must end by Friday at 2400, in order for this regular session to be completed. Even through the media, certain pressures are being made on the MPs. That's what's controversial. On 2nd session, two months ago, SRS MPs asked the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia to declare itself as soon as possible, which was seven days ago, the Committee was chaired by Mr Ljusic, on the basis of the existing Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. We wanted to know then whether this government supports an existing so-called. "Gasha's Law" or doesn't support it; does it intend to change anything or not? We wanted to change this law. If we had a clear attitude then, we would have prepared our proposal today and probably provided for most of this room to vote. The ministry kept quiet for almost two months and then started in public, in the media, saying that something was going to change. This proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, which is ahead of us, is not an ideal and comprehensive solution. However, he is better than the previous law, I apologize to Mr. Knezevic, I must call that law so, because it is much shorter, simpler and more understandable to the public, it is better to suspend the "Gasina Law" to a significant extent. That's what's better and every law after "Gasha's Law" is probably better for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I will remind you in a few sentences, although most MPs do, but I do not think our public is fully aware of the way the "Gasha Law" was implemented in Serbia and the consequences that it could produce that it remained in use for longer. Here's a few sentences. Even the eparchy of the Serbian Orthodox Church wire issued a special extraordinary edition of Žikovnik, which dedicated to the reform of education by Gashi Knezevic. I'm going to quote a few sentences from this hedgehog, for the sake of the public, to get to know the public, those who don't know how devastating the consequences of that law were. I quote: "In the summer vacation of 2002, the Ministry of Education and the Government of Serbia organised camps for high school students (in order for children to reportedly socialise and learn with games and holidays). At the end of summer camps, however, news of strange "workshops" performed in Sremska Mitrovica, Tara, in Divcibars began to penetrate the public. Children were subjected by individual "teachers" to humiliating actions and various nobility. Education Minister Gašo Knezevic admitted that there were unusual phenomena in Sremska Mitrovica. Here's his statement: "At one point, they were playing a game called "Bring - Bring" and a girl, to save time, instead of bringing a bra, which is imposed, because with the time the bras are being brought together points for its team, they take off that bra. The duration of less than 30 seconds. It's a completely closed place, there's no army, there's no one there, the kids are here, her parents are getting something, she's getting dressed, and the two men that took the atmosphere are also coming down, same 30 seconds or less, they're getting dressed, and the dot. At that moment, in those 30 seconds, no one reacted. The educators, the professors, no one reacted. What we personally resent about teachers is that they didn't respond, but, my lords, they took pictures with a camera. It's a moral question, more than the morale of a girl who took off her bra." (At the question of journalists why children didn't bring the ball instead of bras, the minister replied that "there is also a ball in the camp, so there is a bra. ") The example from Sremska Mitrovica is the most drastic, but there were strange exercises happening elsewhere. It is interesting to note that performers in educational workshops were happy to speak against the authority of professors and often prevented teachers, who brought children to camps, to attend workshops. Another very impressive example of Gashi's educational workshops is the script for processing the teaching unit about the world of Savi, applied in the seventh grade of the elementary school "Brothers of Žecmenica" in Užica. A group of students had an assignment to write an interview with the Holy Sava. Here's what that interview looked like: "How are you feeling today? - I feel dead; when are you coming back to heaven? - The first JAT's plane; who made you that hedgehog hair? - Elijah Thunderbolt; Where's your halo? - Stayed in the washing machine; what do you think of educators? - I'm sorry they have to beg between classes." This is where I finished quoting the hedgehog. These and all other negative phenomena that have taken place over the past few years are not the original ideas of the previous Prime Minister Knezevic. He was only a tool in the hands of global ideologists, the production of a post-modern child, behind whom is Đerđ Soros or George Soros, as you already call him, a Hungarian American, who has financed numerous NGOs in Serbia through the Open Society Fund, whose only goal is to destroy all the national signs, through various seminars and workshops. The goal is to destroy Serbian tradition and culture. What is offered by the proposal that is before us? This proposal, unlike "Gasha's Law," has no clear purpose. That's basically his problem. "Gasha's Law" was clear, he had a clear goal, with which we deeply disagreed and disagreed last year, but unlike him, this proposal has no clear goal. He is an attempt to compromise between "Gasha's Law", demands an international community and something that should be a tradition of Serbian culture and the Serbian nation. (President: Are you using for the next 10 minutes? Yes. I will try in these ten minutes to point to some basic views and ideas of this proposal and to offer the citizens of Serbia and what the SRS wants to say on that plan. First, this proposal introduces the National Educational Council as a significant newspaper. It is a new body that replaces three advices under the previous law, i.e. the existing law; it is called - national and educational advice, and that is what is good; it is good that this body is chosen by the National Assembly. However, in this proposal, in addition to this council, the National Educational Council, which has the opportunity to form a commission, permanent and occasional, this proposal also provides for the establishment of an education and education institution and the evaluation of quality in the field of education, and would be a government body, i.e. government institutions. So they are formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Within the framework of the Institute, or the first of those two institutions, four centres are formed as mandatory and other organisational units are provided, i.e. various expert teams. All of this brings us to the conclusion that nothing will be done on the plan of rationalization, bureaucracy, which is the previous, or still existing law. This way, if this stays like this, we're going to have a massive bureaucratic structure again, a bulky machine, just repacked in a slightly different way. We in the SRS are in favour of simplifying this, that these institutions do not function as a special institution, but that, within the framework of the National Council, we form a permanent commission to deal with this issue. What is controversial about this council is the way members of this council are elected. The Assembly is scheduled to do so and it is not disputed. However, it is provided for in Article 3. The draft law to propose members of the council shall be carried out by some institutions, organisations and associations. In fact, this proposal imposes obligations, and that is what is controversial, to various institutions and associations, that they must propose their candidates to this national council. It's just amazing, because how can we impose a legal obligation on someone who isn't interested in that law and that area? Here it is mentioned, among others, and should be interested and say the Association of Employers of Serbia. I cannot understand how this association can have an interest and whether it has it in the field of education at all, who can force it to run for one of its members in this council; or whether trade unions that are representative in Serbia should also agree on one member. Gentlemen, these unions can't agree on what's fundamental, I mean the basic activity, they're workers' rights, they can't agree to strike, let alone agree on who's going to represent them in this council. The next thing I want to point out is the position of the managing authority, first of all, the school director. According to this proposal, which went one step further in a negative direction compared to the previous law, it's an innovation that was introduced here, it's an exam for the school director. The current law envisioned the training of the school's director, and now goes on, a test is being introduced, so whoever wants to apply for the director's post has to pass the exam for the school's director. We have a problem, because in Serbia very few quality people apply to competitions for directors. If we adopt this in this way now, we adopt one obligation to the one who wants to run for the exam, and the bill says that the cost of laying is borne by the candidate who lays. In this material situation, which is extremely difficult for educational workers, it will be very difficult to find and motivate quality people to compete for the director's post, if they have an obligation and to pay all the costs of the exam, means to prepare the exam and pay all the costs. On the other hand, what this exam brings him: suspense. He must, in order to compete, to apply, have the exam passed because no one and no guarantee that he will be elected director. This is due to the fact that the Director does various legal tasks that are not professional and that he needs to know all sorts of other laws. Gentlemen, the director can't finish law school on one of these exams. On the other hand, if not elected in one term, but after four or eight years, who guarantees that these regulations will be valid, especially with the years in which he passed this exam. We think this is groundless, that we should be thrown out and that we should leave the existing state we've had so far. Also, our objection is to the very notion of a licence introduced by the existing law, the Gaza Law, and which survived in this law, although a little procedure regarding the licence has been amended. Namely, this is where the license exams are scheduled, but unlike Gashi's law, the license here has a permanent character. According to Gashi's law, the licence had to be extended every five years, and it has a permanent character here, with the possibility that the licence could be suspended due to violations of labour obligations or to be permanently abolished. We are in favour of an existing solution, that is, the previous solution, which is the solution to the expert exam, we are in favour of the professional exam, as previously stated, that this is quite enough for a man to qualify for working with children and to keep that solution, not to introduce ourselves the notion of a license, which is not adequate at all, and especially this license exam. Also, what's controversial for us is the ministry's jurisdiction. According to this proposal, the ministry is quite relieved. Many of the responsibilities that should belong to the ministry itself have now been transferred to other authorities, so the ministry remains in fact as one formal body. The ministry doesn't bring up curricula and programs. They are now being brought by the National Educational Council, and this is, in our opinion, controversial. The Minister of Education is a person, a person who stands behind the entire education system; he must be familiar with all the details that are related to education and cannot be outside of the school's curricula and programmes, not even he gives consent to the school's school programmes, or the school's managing body. So, the school management body, the school board, can bring in a school program that no one will verify. He has an obligation to adopt the programme according to the curricula and the programme prescribed by the council, but no one examines whether or not he has fulfilled it. So there's no control mechanism, no minister's consent. We find that inadmissible. Also, the election of directors. Under the current school director's law, the managing authority is elected on the basis of the competition, and according to the teacher's board. Under the current law, which has not been amended in this section by this proposal, the teacher's opinion is higher, but that opinion does not oblige the school board. We play democracy, we give some ingenuity to school employees... (Chairman: Time, please. I'm sorry, I was quoting, so please don't count it on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3771	I'll count you in, just watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3772	So the views of the teaching council are not binding, therefore, why do you throw dust in the eyes of educational workers, because it produces many negative consequences. Educational workers, if they already know that their opinion is not binding by the school board, simply say, so why should we propose and vote at all. It should be made clear that the founder of the school is the Republic, the Republic through the managing authority, means the school board and the school manager, and the director will choose the managing authority and there is no need for the teacher to get involved in all of this. On the other hand, the teaching council has its three members on the school board, who have been elected by secret vote, and they represent teachers on the school board. I apologize that I may have extended a little bit, I didn't say everything, because everything is impossible and said in this short time, there will be debates and amendments, where we will say what has not been said now, and our MPs will also speak in the principle debate. I just want to say in general, this is an attempt to fix something quickly and normally that's not good enough. Once again, it is better than the previous one, and it is good to suspend what has been done before, but a consensus must be reached on this matter for all interested and all political entities in Serbia. Without that consensus, all reforms will be short-lived, all laws will be short-lived. We've got a problem here, I haven't been able to say it, the problem of insufficient grades, poor grades and a correctional exam. There's been a mistake here. It seems to me that she's of a technical nature. I hope she'll be corrected by an amendment. And if it stays like this, we're going to have an abnormal situation that seven days before the end of the school year we're going to have to change that instead of four weak ones going to juvie with two weak ones. I think it's a technical mistake and it needs to be changed. I say, this consensus that I have talked about is necessary, however, in the conditions of political instability, which are now ruling in Serbia and in this assembly, which we have seen in the previous days, it is impossible to make this consensus and therefore it is also important to have elections as soon as possible, and therefore it is important for the SRS candidate to win, to have Tomislav Nikolic as president of Serbia soon as possible, and to have a stable radical majority in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3773	Thank you. Mr. Princeevic. Are you answering for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3774	Yeah, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3775	Replica, MP of the people, Mr. Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3776	Mr. Jovanovic, do you agree that I call you Zlatan? Golden, we've gone to a higher degree of intimacy. I'm reporting for the replica, just to tell you that I'm taking your apology seriously and thank you for it, and I'm going to remember this as a picturesque indication, a shortened designation of one law, and thank you. On the other hand, I'd like to tell you something. You've devoted more than half your time to the old law. That means it's a good lump, and I just want the educators not to forget it, if we vote the opposite today. So I'm sure they'll stay in their memory of Golden, and I hope some will behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3777	Do any of the other representatives want a word? National MP, authored by Milosav Petronijevic, ahead of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Amendments and additions to the Law are inevitable, as they stop the harmful process of deepening the crisis in education, destabilising the system, with inconceivable consequences for both students and society. If there is a more urgent emergency procedure, then this law should be amended in accordance with this urgent procedure. And while on one hand we sought the demands of the pedagogical public and the institutions, which are also relevant to give their opinion on the basics of the education and education system, on which the future of our generations and of our country depends, we sought change, on the other hand, we had the situation that only those who participated in its creation were positive about the reform of education. It is a reform without a valid methodology, a reform without state definition in education, essentially aimed at reducing the quality of students' education, although it is announced according to the children's custom. It is a law that is repressive, with its highlighted normativism, which hinders the creation of experts, restricts freedoms, introduces a record number of controls, which the best pedagogical workers can get out of schools. It is a law with a very strong centralization of the management of this activity and an increased disenfranchisement of pedagogical workers. He was supposed to be changed right away. And while in schools, among teaching workers and parents, there was ignorance, confusion, anxiety and uncertainty, to ignoring and doing jobs as usual, on the other hand we learned that something else was happening the other day: at the same time, while many professional people were being pushed aside, a new 230 people were employed at the Ministry of Education. Enormous fees have been paid, according to 50,000 euros. The transport of the contract wasn't enough cars, the van had to, and what else we're going to find out as a consequence of that reform. Serbia has the right to know how much money has been spent, from which sources, what it has all been spent on and what we are asking for the Ministry to disclose these data to the public. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law will also be supported by what is in the light of this law, which is that education adapts and the time in which we live, and the conditions in which our country and all of us, which harmonizes it with the needs of society, which at the same time, and not as before, respect the traditional values of our education system and the need to agree with the European and education of developed countries, which enables a systematic, rational approach to change. We think this is just a partial amendment to one bad law. Probably that's all it could have done now. That is why we advocate daizmen and complements are part of the overall reform, which should be designed scientifically, to rely on pedagogical science, but also on pedagogical practice, which should indeed be tailored to children of Serbia, but also towards Serbia's economy. It must also be based on an analysis of the material situation of education, staff situations of education, organisation and teaching and other forms of work with students, as well as with results. And we have many reasons to be proud of the results, many of our students have won Olympic, world medals from many subjects, as well as results in achieving goals and tasks and education. But on the basis of the state definition in education and on the basis of the Assembly, bring forward a state strategy in education and education. We just have to get everything else out of her. We advocate to bring such a state strategy. To ensure consensus in this activity, because education and education is such a significant activity that its development must not depend on who is in power or on the party's influence. That is why we believe that consensus should be reached on this issue, adoption of a state strategy, then projects, then reforms. In this way, a party approach would also be avoided and no way would the government come to the rules of some of its reforms, etc. I would also refer to a few questions from the law, only to the one where we have something to add, and what we supported would not repeat. The first thing we want to point to, but also to support, is the formation of a national educational council, one that replaces three. And, not only because it replaces three, but because it's a national council chosen by the Assembly and not by the Government, and because it's a national council that's a separate body that it brings, that I don't list everything, and I don't propose a minister. And, of course, we support what he is representative of, but we warn that we must keep an eye on the end of his constitution that he must also be competent. No offense, authority does not mean competence. Let us not exclude people from practice, people who know the problem of education and education, who know the job and who are ready for innovation, from reforms in this area. In this regard, we have submitted an amendment and we will discuss it in more detail. When it comes to the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, we want to support this way of organising work in this area, but we also want to warn – we do not think it is good that the work that talks about the Institute does not involve the work of the Institute, and the work of the Centre is detailed. I'd like to warn you that we don't feel good that these centres, which are being abolished, were seven, passed on, conditionally said, to the office, so that they'd be seven again and again to be the same. Since time is running out, only briefly – I want to support this change regarding the selection of the school director. We've had a very bad situation in practice. For example, in Obrenovac, at Buda Davidovic Technical School, it is no longer called because these anti-fascist fighters are no longer in fashion, the school board's director was elected on a proposal from the teacher's council. A teacher's council has chosen a school board. It was given to the minister's consent. The minister kept quiet, the director wasn't elected. Now, the minister can keep quiet, the director will be elected, and he can only refuse in two cases – if he is not in accordance with the law and if relations are disturbed. I would like to warn, with the help of all this, that, in the preparation of education for a short period of two years, all the material and personnel preparations are being carried out, and the danger that follows. The ministry could have gotten a little braver in part of the law that talks about grading. Return the numerical scores. No one has ever been able to find a better system than the number one. When we find him, we'll apply him. If nothing else, turn off the description from second grade. Also, the textbook should make sure that the textbooks are found at the market, and there are many. We need to bring them down to one mandatory, not a bunch like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3779	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3780	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Europe has entered the 21st century with the conclusion that the knowledge acquired in the 20th century represents the most significant national wealth. Our country, unfortunately, in the last decade of the 20th century has been exposed to wars, sanctions, isolation. Moral values have fallen apart. The multiparty system created is depicted as a form of anarchy and powerlessness. The school under these circumstances did not remain intact. The work depended only on the enthusiasm of individuals. Last decade in schools marked strikes, and this is the only form of fighting for the dignity of educators. To restore value systems, establish, unfortunately, it takes a lot more time than when they collapse. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, I will read to you the basic objectives of education and education. One, equal schooling conditions for everyone. Two, providing basic education for the entire population. Under three, speeding up both stability and social change, because it is the task of education to provide knowledge and create respect for the cultural and historical heritage, social institutions and traditions of our country and the whole world. On the other hand, it also belongs to education tasks, that it promotes innovation and conveys the next generation of knowledge-building methods and accepts the appropriate forms of behaviour that enable us to make further progress. Without a stronger foundation in the past, as well as reality in the present, it is difficult to make progress that points to the future. And without progress and innovation, the long-term stability of society has been compromised. The next goal is to prepare children for life as adults, especially in the fields of work, leisure, family and society. Creating motivation among students to continue education and prepare for life in a world that is in constant change. And, of course, one important goal is to feel comfortable with children who go to school. I have read to you the objectives of education and education, and the common objectives of the European Union. The objectives set out in this law fall within the objectives of education and education in Europe. The next point I especially want to deal with is the organisation and structure of education. There's been a lot of controversy in the public about the structure that's in force here: three plus three plus three. I will tell you that in Europe, as far as the structure and organisation of education are concerned, there is one colour and there is no single European educational structure system. So that's where we tend to extend compulsory education and education. And here in the law, we also have a tendency of extension, so we're going to put the prep class in preschool institutions as a system of one plus four plus four. What is different in Europe is that in several countries there are three plus three plus three, and in most countries the system and structure are divided into the primary and secondary levels. The difference in European countries is the most significant in this secondary level, where some countries have an immediate choice to continue schooling. For example, France has in the last year a choice of extensions, and many countries have election items as opportunities for students to choose and direct themselves to continue their education. System 1+4+4, which is the foundation here, also allows our education system to adapt to European flows and introduce it in the final classes of primary school, so in seventh and eighth grade, electoral subjects, and they are in the component of the curriculum and programme, so that we do not give up on European models in this segment either, nor did any of us ask us to change the structure of education itself. The next important point of amending and supplementing the Law on the Education and Education System is the National Educational Council. There are three educational councils in the current law. There's a tip for harmonising attitudes in education. Isn't that a burden, isn't that grotesque, isn't that something that can't actually work? By amending the law and by creating a national educational council, with clear ingenuity, we get an autonomous body that will have significant ingenuity, which concerns the adoption of curricula and programmes, the proposal of textbooks, the adoption of standards of different kinds in the field of education and education. You know for a fact that today, as far as standard goes, no one has touched that point for years, that we have certain schools that don't have any computers, they don't even have a phone or a fax, and we have schools that are very well equipped, but unfortunately, they're in the minority. It is necessary, therefore, that one professional body, composed of very competent people, make appropriate standards, propose curricula and programmes and propose to the minister of textbooks, that the minister cannot decide for himself who will print or make them. As far as the curricula and the program that brings educational advice, he is flexible. I would like to thank the Ministry and the Government for respecting the amendment that the curricula and the programme contain mandatory and recommended content of mandatory and electoral items. There's flexibility. In the previous law, we had a percentage of how many percent of schools can change the plan and program. You can't define something like that as a percentage. We would get a system to learn one thing in one school, if there was a flexibility of even 70% for professional schools, in another school would be taught something completely different, diplomas acquired in such a way would not have the same value. This law allows two institutions to be established - to improve education and education and to evaluate the quality of education and education. In this way, these institutions, which are independent institutions, are formed by the Government, have the opportunity, on the one hand, to contribute to improving education and training by preparing adequate proposals to the Educational Council and the Ministry and, on the other hand, to this institution to evaluate the quality of education and education of prudential evaluation, what is not present in school; there is no evaluation of students in an adequate manner, neither teachers nor schools. We need to establish a value system, so we can see clearly where to intervene, where to improve what to do, etc. In Europe, special attention is paid to the evaluation... (President: Are you using another ten minutes? Yes. Special attention is paid to evaluation and supervision. So this way, here's the point where we approach European flows. Of course, this Quality Assessment Institute is needed as an independent institution because of an objective assessment of student achievements, because of the evaluation of individual schools, but also because of the evaluation of the system as a whole. The next important question is decentralisation. In different ways, explanations appear in public. Decentralisation in this law has three segments -- one is governance, the other is funding, the third is curricula and programmes. As far as management is concerned, the director of the institution is elected by the school board. The school board consists of three teachers, three members from the parents' office and three members from the local community, which means that the selection of directors is tied to a lower level. The Ministry does not give consent, and the silence of the administration means the director has been elected. Of course, if problems arise, the ministry reacts, such a choice stops. As for funding in the current law, funding relating to teaching salaries goes from a central level to a budget. Funding related to material costs has been reduced to local levels. What is the task of the ministry and what exists as a problem in practice is that we do not have in Serbia an even distribution of exactly that part of the budget that has been put down to the local level, and the question is what are the opportunities for individual municipalities to deal with it, what are the opportunities for municipalities to allocate funds for education. In particular, attention must be paid in this field, as problems in practice are visible. As for teaching plans and programmes, I also heard on the board comments that teaching plans and programmes do not have flexibility. They are provided with educational advice, and school programs are presented by the school management body. In this section of the curricula and the programmes that I have mentioned for mandatory and recommended content, if the educational advice recommends certain content to the school, that part of the curriculum and the program is actually flexible. School, let's say electrically, can accept it, but it can say it has a certain specificity and that it thinks it's better to put its free contents into the school program. One question in public these days has caused great controversy. It's a teacher's license. The current licence law provides for renewal every five years. We think it's one of the forms of coercion for teachers. If you have to renew your license every five years, it means that every five years you make a certain effort that is mandatory. On the other hand, we have an example from practice, I'm a man from school, that some teachers have already reached a hundred points without having a visible effect on what they got. In this law there is a professional training and promotion of teachers. In this way teachers are motivated to obtain certain titles through their additional work, professional training. There are well-known examples in Europe that such titles or such scales are rewarded by teachers by additional funding or, as another form in the teachers' working week norm, can be defined by the way in which they get the highest title that they have certain privileges. So these are examples that exist in Europe to evaluate the work of teachers. What I was still trying to say was that I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the Council of Europe's document, which is an opinion on the current Law on Education and Education at the time it was brought to the Assembly. It is interesting that the position of these professional people in the Council of Europe has expressed more concern for our education than the Ministry of Education at the time. They said that it is very important to treat the law with caution, since it is necessary to consider the consequences of such application. They said there is a danger that by accepting European trends some other legislative areas could come into question. So it takes a lot of work and a long time to even our education system with a specific type country in Europe. Of course, they suggested creating a national centre that is now a national educational council. They expressed their interest in whether, in addition to the funds necessary for the application of the law, there are people in the system that will ensure that the law works. In practice, there have been strong resistances, and resistances in those segments that have not been fully considered whose consequences and have not been calculated today. They clearly argue that there are supervisors at local and national level, which we have in this law, but they have expressed the impression that there is a certain confusion over the duties and responsibilities and I believe that, as far as the supervision is concerned, the Ministry of Education has jurisdiction over this law. It is necessary to do one big job, to be present primarily with the expertise and qualifications of people, to do so properly, and especially because they can give a negative opinion on the work of a specific teacher. So the first step of the ministry is to make a good quality there and then move on with that kind of work. What is further said in this document is that there is a contradiction in the development of private education. Unfortunately, in the past and in this law we do not have clearly developed mechanisms for private schools, and this is a segment that the Ministry must deal with in the future, in order to simply equate the criteria of state and private schools in the best way possible and enable, of course, in an equal way, private schools to participate in the educational process in Serbia. What is very important, they suggested when going to change, all the factors need to meet, make a deal, make a discussion about it, and go to an experiment in certain schools. Of course, without such preparations, without the gradual introduction of changes, there may be major problems that we are witnessing. Of course, the G17 also advocates that this law be adopted and advocated to continue with the changes in education, but in a way that creates a national educational council with its expert team, and to change the methods of work and our attitude towards the student, because the attention of the student must be growing, to move with such kinds of changes. And that's what we're going to do if we do it as effectively as possible, the sooner we choose the National Educational Council and the more professional people in it, and we create a suitable environment in schools to move with these kinds of changes. When I asked a teacher – tell me, since you are not engaged in legislative work, what are the key things at school today that need to be taken care of. He says – first, the system of discipline adhered to by students, teachers, parents and school management, second, higher salary, third, weight of materials, fourth, student benches and chairs to look like something and fifth, the right psychophysical control of professors, and not order. When we look at which things are warm, we realize that these things are actually woven into these changes and additions to the Law on Education and Education. As far as the weight of the material is concerned, I've already talked about teaching plans and programs, as far as student benches and chairs are concerned, when we finally adopt those standards, that our students in schools have decent working conditions. All of this stands for G17 plus and this isn't the end of our pledge. We will continue to influence the educational authorities to make the changes in education work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3781	The word has been given by MP Gašo Knezevic, as the authority representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3782	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, dear fellow MPs, say history is a teacher of life, so let's remember a little history. In the past and this century, not to count before that, four education reforms have been carried out. So, the story of about 20-30, that's all stories for stories, and actually there were four. Two hundred and twenty-six years ago, she was introduced to Somboro School of Teachers. It was done by Avram Brazovic, a Serbian who graduated from Vienna school and brought the Vienna programme to Serbian soil. Tradition, good tradition has its Vienna roots. If he had finished his school in Paris, he'd probably have brought a Paris program, but he ended up in Vienna. Then we tried to make that school better, because, of course, in education I don't want to say that someone is unfavorable, they're all well-intentioned, and these attempts have been reduced in the last century, 20 and some years, to the introduction of four-year compulsory education. It's the first big procedure. Second, 1958, extension of education to eight years. And the third, which I think is a fractured one, which is said of by Mr Nenad Lemajic, is the Šuvar's rephrase, which represents a reform of secondary school only. So Shuvar didn't get eight-year-old schools. The next major reform, or its attempts, was in 2003, when we tried to make a nine-year compulsory education since we were eight years old. Of course, that ninth grade had no chance of resuscitating, because to resuscitate it took four or five years, because if it had made the third cycle from the seventh to the ninth, its implementation would have taken another four years. Anyway, we had a kid and we spilled it. We didn't mean him any harm. I think we did it, all of us, if we do it out of fear, I'll talk about it this afternoon. Now get something on the facts. I know what explanation will give us the Ministry of Education on our question to explain the urgency of the procedure. I'll try to warn the answer. The answer will be: You are too late with the programs, that is one; two, textbooks. These are the only reasons I can stand to activate that member of the Rules of Procedure that we have called upon. Programs – it was ready for first class long ago, for second grade on time and for seventh grade was late. It's not a dispute. It was late because no contact was made between the Council and the Ministry and because they would see the Enlightenment Council, if you formed it as a massive body, because individuals from the profession, for example, mathematicians, historians, etc., fought for their yard. They were all supposed to agree to compromise and agree to percentages of class distribution. We were distracted here, especially by a group of mathematical objects. There were people in the math delegation who now said they were not involved in the work to prepare our law. They're honored by such behavior. Only my good education will keep me from telling them my name. Those who know, they heard this well. These programs that will now be passed, if this law is passed, will arrive at schools a month before the school year begins, in such a good case. Our programs, which have already been finished since the beginning of March, also published in public debate, have long known them. Therefore, the adoption of plans and programmes, as is now called, is not a reason for urgency. The textbooks remain. The following is with them: there have already been books for the first class since last year; books have been completed for the second grade, reviewed, authorised by the commissions and, at the request of the minister, will be presented to her on Friday to sign the commission's report, for the press. A presentation of new books at the Teachers' Assembly in Prijepolje is scheduled on Saturday. For the second class – the same thing: finished books, the minister asked to be presented to her on Friday, the presentation is in Prijepolje. The last – seventh grade, the Institute and some publishers are ready, but the MPS has ordered that the books are not reviewed by the commission. We know that books exist, but we don't know how good they are, because the commissions haven't examined them. So, causing general danger and therefore the urgency of the procedure. Our concept was based on several facoras. These factors were new, wider institutionalization of the system. That's why the advisory centres were formed and they actually had to contribute to decentralisation, because in the division of jurisdiction between the Ministry and the Centre they had to transfer professional jobs to the centres and these three tips that exist in our concept, and the Ministry to keep that administrative part of the business. There's a very centralized system in the world, it's French. And they're leaving him. It is a system that is fully consistent, on the Committee for Education, I have confessed, representing the Serbian Radical Party. My system is not a centralised system. I'll always sit down to talk to them who's better, to measure the arguments. However, the new concept that is now being advocated is semi-fish, a crazy girl, in fact, is almost nothing. Unfortunately, we've lost concept and measurement. One of the protagonists of our concept was measurability. There's a category called added pedagogical value. It's the difference between a kid who was admitted to first grade or first grade high school and a kid who came out, from what she knew, to where it came from. That's the added value. To measure it, an instrumentation is needed. That instrumentation is just the outcome. That's why, by eliminating the outcome, we lost that concept. I can keep counting, but I'm gonna stop here because I'm gonna use the second part of my time this afternoon. Now I'm going to read you some passages from a letter I received from the director of a Belgrade school. I was forced to find out which party it was from - one of the parties that are now in power. It's my word to tell you the truth. Of course I'll protect her privacy. "Implementation of reform and adoption of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System preceded a two-year procedure seeking the model of the education system that would best suit our cultural climate, involving teachers, parents, directors, representatives of local communities, experts. The possibility that MPs in education finally use their expertise and design their own work programmes has triggered great working energy and creative potential. In order to avoid arbitraryness, improvisation and to enable quality monitoring, it was necessary to focus on outcomes and the establishment of independent centres. The excuse for abolishing the reform, that schools in the interior are not in the same situation as in major cities, is not justified, first because there are a large number of schools in development and pilot projects, right from the interior; then, the utopia of social and geopolitical constituencies, will never be feasible. Ours is to try to ensure as much equal conditions as possible for everyone, but not if we stop those who progress, but what we push and drag those who lag behind. It should be stressed – the reform had the possibility of continuous correction and adaptation to the given circumstances, permanent verification and revaluation. It was not once unspeakable, but predicated to be a living organism that would be shaped according to the needs of children and the social environment." Of course, these are the scriptures from the letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3783	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yes, MP Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3784	Ladies and gentlemen, since we have a very big and responsible job ahead of us, I'm going to try to keep this first address on just one of the most important moments. I would like to refer to the past, and to a metaphor I already said at one of the sessions of the Educational Committee, which is – when the first Constitution was adopted in 1835 in the Principality of Serbia, that is the famous Sretenjska Constitution, Russian diplomacy has qualified it as a "French breakup in the Serbian forest". Of course, because of his express and very prominent liberal and democratic character, which is why Knjaz Milos strongly rebuked Dimitri Davidovic. Of course, that constitution was quickly abolished and we know that it was practically passed after that in 1838. This metaphor is needed for one reason why the predecessor, or my colleague, and of course the ex-minister said, was it an attempt to make one gromad, it seemed to me that it was so expressed, entered into this system of education through this reform of education, but of course, that gromada was truly unacceptable. We who work in education know that we need a law, that is, education reform, not just the law, the law as part of a reform, I mean a comprehensive education, both for us, for our parents, for our children and for society at all. This initial reform was a copying of other people's models, and that's why I say it was inapplicable, and it reminds me of this French breakup in the Serbian forest. Of course she was too ambitious, and she wasn't prepared enough, and we always, always, in fact, had one grip in time and the necessity to do something to make it look like something, and of course, time wouldn't allow or threaten us. Furthermore, this scientific foundation of the previous concept is highly discriminatory, and I know that there will be words in the debate on amendments, and in particular the material basis of our society, i.e. material and human resources, this great difference between the city and the village, etc. Another aspect of which I would point out is that it is quite a controversial concept of the previous ministry and when it comes to education, i.e. the implementation of those courses and reforms. Of course, it caused an inevitable association to repeat it like after 1945, when the coursers were they, or those who had completed analphabet courses, gave lectures, and then everything entered that quota, reports that there were no illiterate in certain parts, etc. Maybe this is too harsh a comparison, but it's clear that the employees, I mean teachers, teachers, were forced to go to those courses because the law bound them to get a license. As meaningful as they were, in fact, needed, it is a great sign of the question, and it is indeed being discussed at a meeting like this. And I wouldn't get into it, but just now one of my colleagues said and how much it cost this country, whether we're going to have one balance on how much it's burdened either the budget, or whether it's about these NGOs. Something that is also very interesting is that these seminars were conducted, first of all, by psychologists and educators, so the ministry, or Mrs. Minister, called the public with information that 230 new employees were employed in the ministry, and out of that are 50 psychologists. I suppose the purpose of such a policy is simply to think that these psychologists can best influence the formation of consciousness or from small legs on our students, that is to say, our professors who are already working in this education through these seminars and through this education. Furthermore, if we continue to explain this a little bit, I suppose why this is really necessary, so probably that within that mondialist concept, the fear of authority in our children, which, of course, forms in the family, is primarily the father or parents, and later on at school; and perhaps, as a result, in a mature age, reflects on respect or leadership for the cult of activity, which is why, of course, our people have such psychology, that very often points out the great leader and, of course, the infallibility of the great leader. Perhaps it is as one extreme meaning in fact that these reforms, i.e. courses and seminars, were conducted by psychologists. Of course, it was very problematic and the expertise of the people who were working on the implementation of the reform, and I was already talking about it on the Educational Committee, because, of course, the gentlemen of the previous ministry know that it was in the ministry and the people without a day of work, that they didn't carry that diary for five minutes, or with very controversial or problematic diplomats, and I wouldn't talk about it right now. I agree that it should have been at the centre of the previous concept of child reform, but I also think in the opening statement of Mrs. Minister, she said that there is nothing of this reform, if there are no quality and good teachers, that is, those direct factors that implement the reforms. This means first of all that teachers, teachers, teachers, all those who work with children, whether from preschool to high school age, have to have a very broad education, means to fit in with these trends so that it is not only fahitized and that it tells its children not only the subject he has been educated for. Of course, it's primarily that expertise, but it's also pedagogical and human quality. It doesn't take a lot of stories, it doesn't take a lot of wisdom, that we don't really know, or that we're now calling for some big research, or what is it that parents, what are students, first of all, are looking for in this education? They're looking for a safe quality class, an inspiringly motivated teacher who's going to tell the kids and that knowledge, but, of course, something much more. I often said that it was much more important for children to leave something else in the amanet, not whether the Turks came to Slavonia in the 16th century or, I don't know, I'm taking this example because it's my profession. Of course, it was rather humiliating to license every five years, because where that, where the profession is still at work, and we can talk about it, but once again it takes one stage, it takes a certain time to get to that stage and then to talk about how the professor or the teacher is willing to do some work. Therefore, I think that reform is necessary, but to be considered, to be by stages, of course, based on scientific guidelines and, of course, adapted to our conditions, which is very important. The essence of this reform must be, on the one hand, how to protect what is most important, and that is national identities and how, of course, to monitor these modern trends in Europe. I think with a concept like this, which will be upgraded safely, we are on the best track to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3785	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Whether a minister or a representative of the government wants a word; it doesn't have to, can it later; well, thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups: SRS, DSS, DS, G17 plus, SP-NS and SPS. I give the word to the Messenger of the people Dusan Mrvos, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3786	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, was a short notice in one statement that Mr of the SRS has devoted more time to that past law than to this new one, and I will make the same mistake, I will pay more attention to the past, not to the new law. I'm going to be in danger of repeating something that's been said by my colleagues, because the previous speaker is from my parliamentary group, so I guess we have the same attitudes and maybe I'll repeat something he said. Most of the time, after World War II, our school suffered a number of significant reforms, so from 1945 to 1958, it was an ideaal reroution. Since 1970, after the resolution of the Federal Assembly on the development of education on a socialist self-government basis, it has moved into the so-called so-called so-called "Secularity". directional education and it was finally a targeted education in 1974 and introduced to schools. The objectives of these reforms have always been state, and they have been declared social. They referred to ideological rather than true needs and interest, and their carriers were political and party authorities, not experts. Something similar happened during this last reform of education. A group of ideologically close soul mates presented a reform of education and without any insight into the fact that no one has the right to play with the future of neither the people nor the children. What my colleague mentioned was only in one sentence that it was so-called. Pedagogicals and psychologists, with all due respect and work and the expertise of educators and psychologists, educators and psychologists, are, however, persons who rarely keep a diary in their hands and do not have much insight into that professional part of teaching. As a result of such a reform, I will give you only one example. For school 2002/2003. One year, during the preparation of this reform of education, a catalogue of the training training programme was offered. The catalogue, among other things, has 148 educational workshops programmes. Some of the names of these educational workshops are: Neither black nor white, Bucharest tolerance, School of Wizards, Guardians of Smiles, Hello to You, Hey Nabor. And at the same time, instead of 148 educational workshops programmes, there is only one course in Serbian language and literature, only one course in history classes, only two courses in chemistry classes, that course in physics and three courses in mathematics classes. It's interesting who were the organizers of these workshops and playrooms. Some groups in the wider educational community have appeared unknown and strange names, such as Psycho Code, Group 484, of course with the great help of the Centre for Non-violent Communication. The education reform money was also given by Soros, with his Open Society Fund, and the most interesting thing of all, the money was also provided by the World Catholic Aid Service, which took over the reform of Serbian preschool institutions. Repeatedly, I have so much time, the World Catholic Aid Service gave money and took on a reform of the system of Serbian preschool institutions. At the same time, 4,000 teachers in school 2003/2004. They took the first grade of primary schools, they were trained in courses and four courses of three days each. They were trained by 60 instructors, who trained on two courses for three days. Well, to tell you the truth, the skis didn't work either. They had six months of courses. Teachers later practiced in workshops and playgrounds, and of course they received books from which they needed to learn and apply it in their follow-up. I will give you just one example, in one of those books called Game to Knowledge, printed in 1995, one of the authors is also former assistant minister of Dr. Tinde Kovac-Cerovic, there is a workshop to free children from fear of teachers, parents and animals, and a course of such a workshop is called a Master with a bow in his hair playing guitar. At the same time, in another workshop, children could act as welding organs. Acting as welding organs, they could get the role of anus, and they could also get the role of by-products of welding, which in that playroom and worked in the field. That is why I am talking about this old law, although still existing law and the need to reform this law and the need for certain objectives of reform, both for me and for my colleagues from the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia, the goals of reform or what we want are educational pluralism, there is ideologically neutral public education, there is respect for human and children's rights, there is creativity, there is a critical opinion and this is the last, but certainly not in the last place, it is the development of feelings of nationality and ethnicity. All this me and my colleagues from the New Serbia-Serbian Renewal Movement are found in the proposal for this new law on education and education, and we will support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3787	The word has the People's Messenger Anita Beretic, and let Dr Svetislav Krstic be prepared. (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: Replica. I'm sorry, you're looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3788	I think MP immunity may be able to protect against certain acts, but it's hard to protect from the truth. You can't call for parliamentary immunity because of that. The catalogue of education courses offered to everyone in this country is about 350, maybe more, courses. Of which 50% are subject courses, dropping out on Serbian, historical, physics, mathematics, etc. So they're all equivalently used, and they're subject, and they're methodological, and they're pedagogical, and they're communication courses, and they're famous communication courses, and I think they were 22. Among these courses are courses to address interethnic relations. It's about serious projects, it's about public advertising. An Accreditation Commission was formed. All those who had the opportunity and the ability to create some course, if they had passed the Accreditation Commission test, their project would have been adopted. So the truth is different. The truth says that the courses were much higher and that half, or equivalent, were represented by communication and other pedagogicals compared to those in question. Please, at least stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3789	The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3790	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think that the measure of democracy and the development of a society is found precisely in the degree and extent that is achieved in the education system itself, and if there is no significant measure of the development of the education system itself present in a society, then again, that same degree of democracy and readiness for the openness and acceptance of everything that is the future, which is today, compares to that society's willingness to acknowledge that it is not sufficiently developed in a particular area and its willingness to develop this system. I'm afraid that what we've been doing these days, just a few days, and that's the current assembly debate on the bill, and in just a few previous days some notes and more media correspondence, which from the professional circles, which from some other interested environments on this subject, and that, of course, there is a broad public debate on the draft itself and the proposal of this law, which, at least I hope we agree, is exactly what that measure of our willingness to develop democracy in society in general, and therefore in this system, we are ready to build together. What they were, come on, those some general places, but very important as newspapers, introduced so far by the current Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, are, let's say, just some of its attributes. This is, for one thing, depolitisation, decentralisation, the introduction of European standards into our system, and what is personal to me, and I trust many colleagues in education, who are doing it in the spirit, and many who are doing it in the heart, the center of interest and the basic object, but not only in that literal sense as an object of interest, but in the essential sense, so the centre was a child, he was a student. I think that the relationship of the profession to the generations that we leave everything to in this country, and primarily including their own life and development, and the willingness to develop, is that this relationship instead of the reverse, which is now being forced, is much more appropriate. What it brings and what it offers is, I'm afraid, once again, the politicisation of the system itself is centralization, is the introduction or return, or at least regret some old retrograde values, which have been the backbone of many parts of the educational system in our country over decades ago, and what I'm particularly surprised about again as I was just a moment ago, and I was curious about, this time instead of a child and his developmental path, so instead of students as a basic subject of interest, this time we have a teacher. Of course, I don't want to diminish the importance of this profession, on the contrary. And I belonged to her for 13 years, and somehow and today, when they ask me what I am, I say that I am a language teacher, and if it's the same, if something really feels like a belonging, what it's professional to what I want to end up being, it's education, but in some different and broader sense than it might even be today. So, with all due respect, the teacher can't be the center of interest in reform. He is the key, he is the implementer, he is the factor that inevitably and most influences whether the implementation of this existing, and also this, or any other law, will be done in an adequate way, or the path itself and the best-imagined law, and I think that the existing law is very well not only well imagined, designed, that the problem in implementation is a fact, and that there is just, perhaps, one of the basic obstacles and was – a very small willingness of the educational staff to properly lie down, so to speak, professionally for reforms. Reforms are not declared. They are not passed and are not introduced by the adoption of a complete law. The ministry in the previous assembly and the minister, who invested enormous energy with his team in the adoption of this still existing, valid law, of course did not bear in mind that by passing the law, as we called it an optional - roof law, education reforms in Serbia are ending for God's sake. On the contrary, we also called this law and called it roof law precisely for the reasons that it was meant to base the basic principles of functioning of the entire education and education system, and that there were good intentions, or that there was a good intention of not only stopping reforms, as it is now done by this law - but rather, not only will it not be stopped, but it will return a lot of steps back - so that this good will to avoid it has existed, I think it is much more instructed that the expert team and the minister deal with this idea – how reforms will strengthen them, direct them and explain them to all the subsystems that the education and education system practically implies. There was a job waiting for us to pass other laws, and I think that should be the way for someone who wants to implement the reform in such an important activity. So, the arrangement of special laws, which would be compatible with the existing law, and they would edit specifically and precisely and the part relating to preschool education, and primary education, and secondary education, etc. Education and education, of course. Not that it wasn't intentional, but it wanted to be avoided. So, at all costs, he wanted to stop a small shift that took place in the education and education system in Serbia after the adoption of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and through several key points which I heard, in this humble public debate, several times called – relaxation. Although I'm not sure I fully understood that – what that means, I hope that later I will get some clear interpretation, but the essence of the changes is focused on the key elements that certainly ensure that all the good effect of this law that we have so far made impossible. We have listened to powerful praises these days about this change regarding the abolition of the existing Educational Council, the Council for Professional Education and the Council for Harmonization of Viewpoints in Education. That's three existing tips. It's just, let's just say, a non-serious argument that rationalization is being done, even though one of the things that's called the National Educational Council. We know very well, there are many here present, who have held dozens of sessions of the Educational Committee in the past, and this has been discussed very much through the meetings of the Educational Committee in this assembly, and that the majority of the time is at these sessions and dedicated to the debate on the introduction of the National Educational Council, and it should then, by argument, be an alpha and omega, some body, quite brown, and then we will see, with a clear list of promoters, etc. And now this enormous amount of democracy, which is guaranteed that this body, such that will be completely, firstly, difficult to achieve, secondly, completely dysfunctional, as thirdly, in fact, perhaps, and most importantly, will be least professional. With all due respect to the dignity of all those lists that are quite sound, as applicants, but against the Educational Council, ours, so to speak, and these other two, means these three tips, the Council for Professional Education and the Council for Consensation of Opinions, one National Educational Council, however much, and with as much as God knows how recommended and elected in the Assembly, with all due respect, can't be effective enough. So he simply won't, by his very structure, understand the dynamics and all the properties of the education system, when we're talking specifically about preschool, primary and secondary education, which is the topic. It's a cruel and overcome pattern in which all students and teachers try to push, regardless of their individual interests, the degree of mental, mental, emotional and any other maturity, and that's something we've lived through until this law is passed. I think the expert public would like to hear more about it. As for the argument that practically this proposal doesn't close the door to nine years of schooling, basically, I think it's a bribery. You cannot declare a mandatory preparatory class, i.e. pre-school education for a year, an integral part of nine years of primary education and education. It's in that folk's -- that the Vlachs don't know each other, but it has nothing to do with each other. So, the nine-year cycle of basic education and education implies, one way or another, the internal schedule of the very structures of these stages and processes, we can negotiate, dispute and represent various combinations, but these three cycles that were represented in the current law are something that knows broad European educational practice. But since we mostly react negatively, these are stages that naturally follow the physical, psychological, and emotional development of the child. It's something that requires teachers not to be a teacher of curricula and programs, where you have 120 hours to process and those teaching units, with clearly defined goals and tasks. I think that as a society, we must stand up to such a degree of destruction of creativity and responsibility within each profession, especially education. Of course, there are some provisions in the law that are even repressive by a student. I think even if that's a return for discussion, that's what we're going to do when we talk about the amendments, and the number of grades in the midterm can be interpreted twice. Of course, returning to that obligation to automatically lose over two weak grades a year, that's something we've advocated, which is difficultly sustainable, from pedagogical, psychological and each other's sides. Of course, this constant pressure that a child, if he does any disciplineal injury, work obligations, this or that, is about 60 days to worry about whether someone is going to report him, or plant him, or something like that. These are details we can talk about, which don't have to be insurmountable, but are part of the essence. I think, as far as the basic argument is concerned, several times it has been indicated here, that one of the most important arguments for proposing this law is to adapt time and conditions. I know, unfortunately, there are those who want it to be the 18th or the 19th century, but I think we're in the 21st century. I want us to live as if we're already at the end of the 21st century, and it's exactly the school that needs to teach us how great it is to live in the 21st century and how great it is to look ahead, not to look constantly back; to cultivate tradition yes, but to go back - no.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3791	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3792	Thank you. I'll try to take a brief look at some of the observations. For some, I don't think they deserve any consideration or elaborate because something that's not argumentable can't be answered by arguments. I don't think the understated interpretation requests are worth any arguments. With regard to the speed of working on changes to this law, I have to repeat what I've said several times, that's a fact, we've found ourselves in a time extortion, neither guilty nor debtor. Why should the law change? Because the way he is, with his quality and his ability to be implemented in practice, he deserves to be changed. And you know we have certain deadlines, it's supposed to start a school year, it takes for that year to prepare both teachers and teachers. Normally, it takes psychologically to prepare the children themselves, and the students themselves. So it's not our fault everything was done in a hurry. That didn't work out for us either. We've been under a lot of pressure on the deadlines, under a lot of stress, but these are the circumstances of this job, and we've accepted these responsibilities, and we've been doing the best we can. Of course we have legislative activity, and it is very intense, to develop a special law on basic education, on secondary education, on high and higher education laws. Therefore, our legislative activity with amendments to this law is just beginning, and in no case ends. At this point, I will try to look only at some concrete remarks, and in principle, at the end of the debate, I will say something more and broader about some of the elements here in the discussion so far. Just a quick answer, why, for example, Representative of the Employers' Association at the National Educational Council? Because there are upper secondary schools, because these schools are educated by those students who will not continue their education, those students who need to adapt to social, economic needs. I guess that's what it takes for someone from the Employers' Association to be in that pattern, but according to us, it's a necessary, interdisciplinary, professionally-oriented and composed national educational council. How will three representative unions choose one representative? This is about that national consensus on education. So we all have to find some consensus, some agreement, to have broad social support, without which no reform can be implemented, however well imagined. If we all have to find this one common denominator, and we have to find it as a nation and state, why can't the representatives of three representative unions. By definition, trade unions should have no conflicting interests in this or any other sphere. The question arises - why the exam for the school director? An exam for the school director because we're in a situation where we're in, because we have executives who don't know a single word of foreign language. It is not appropriate for the tendency to introduce a foreign language since the first grade of primary school, and to have directors, even in Belgrade schools, which have no basic knowledge of computer skills, cannot be used by computer, cannot use electronic mail. On the other hand, there is something called the nature of one institution's governance. If someone wants to be a director, he needs to know some basic management mechanisms of the facility, which is something that requires a certain, not a large, but a small theoretical basis in that sense. Finally, it does not pass the licence exam, nor will anyone take the licence exam, but a professional exam is passed to obtain a work permit, a licence. Why the license, why is it called that? As a philosopher, I'm opposed to foreign words, but this is a professional technical term that's pretty widespread in the modern world, so we've kept something that, as such, has been defined in the previous law. Otherwise, we do not break the existing law in this regard and in the existing law it was intended to pass the exam for directors after professional training. So we haven't made anything worse about the existing legal solution. As for the implementation of the prescribed plans and programmes, this process will not be deprived of control. There is a possibility of surveillance, of acting through surveillance, and of course we will insist on it. So we are for the state to care about what is called compulsory primary education. That can't get out of state control in any way. Why is the Ministry's jurisdiction reduced? It is our contribution to decentralisation, which is not only an international trend, but an international imperative. There is something else that is characteristic of savaremen democratic societies and states, which is the respect of institutions. You will allow it, the minister is an individual, not an institution, and the National Educational Council is still an institution. We simply respected something that is at this point international political and state trends and tendencies, and it is simply our desire to integrate into the European Union. With regard to the claim that there are politicisations in our bill and that there is centralised, arguments are not necessary to disprove it, because we have not heard a single argument that confirms it. Why is a teacher at the center of reform, and why not a child at the center of reform? It's just one demagogy, a child in the center of reform. If reform is a process of change for the better, I guess for the better, if there's something we shouldn't change for the better, they're our children. Kids don't miss anything, they don't need to be reformed, but everything else needs to be reformed for the sake of the children. Therefore, teachers must be reformed, textbooks, programs, schools, but not children. Finally, about nine years of primary education, I want to say something. There's a lot of talk about that nine-year-old education. It is mostly represented in Europe, but our people are a little naive, a little childish, hears about that basic nine-year-old education, and he liked it terribly, and we don't know what it is. It doesn't exist here yet, it hasn't come to life, it hasn't shown its positive results, so now so much public support for something we don't know what it's going to look like. We know the case of some other states in transition that have introduced nine years of education, so they're not so spectacularly satisfied. So let's wait a minute. We have to wait in some much more luxuriant segments of this society to reform themselves, it's very difficult to reform a sector that rests on the budget, we all know very well, we are in the overall social reform. It will be easier to reform education the moment our economy strengthens. It is a well-known thing and, therefore, we have terrible problems with the material and technical equipment of schools, with other issues that are extremely important, which must be resolved before effective, quick and rapid education reform is possible. I have repeated several times so far, that the much more developed countries in Europe in the European Union have a very effective development pathway to reform education and I don't see how we, so tired and exhausted, can reform our education so quickly. Why the curricula and the programs, not the general and the specific basics? Excuse me, curricula and programs, it's a termology that is traditional in our education. These terms as terms can't be good or bad. There will be good or bad contents, i.e. What's behind the meaning of these words, but so much to be against something that's been educated by generations and generations of students in this country, it's simply incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3793	Since more of you are reporting for a replica or for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and we are close to a break, I am giving a break until 15.00 hours. When we start, you'll have a chance to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please at first determine the quorum. By applying the electronic voting system, we've determined that we have a quorum to work with. The word is made by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3795	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for a replica of Mrs. Colic's presentation, the minister of education, who said in her presentation before the break that she was not taking the license exam, but a professional exam and that no one would take the licence exam. I must remind you that in the basic text of the applicable law, in Article 112, which has not been amended by this proposal, it reads: "Teacher, teacher and expert associate can perform a person who has a work permit", and the bracket says: "(hereinafter: license)". So there's also an adequate substitute for that term "licence" in our language, and that could still be formulated. So the license is a work permit. In Article 40. The proposal, which is a member of the 113st basic text, reads: "The intern, in the sense of this law, is a person who for the first time is founded by a working relationship and is trained for independent educational-experienced work" etc. "to introduce teachers, educators and professional associates and pass license exams." Both in point 1 and in point 4, point 5, etc. Even these new attitudes have been brought in here and are also talking about the license exam. So it's a license exam, not a professional exam. Since it is related to this, Mr. Knezevic, on the Committee on Education, said on my remarks that no one received a license from the existing educators who submitted the request last year, that they had been automatically granted that licence. It stands nicely in article 114 of the basic text: "The licence is a public document". So it's a piece of paper that needs to be obtained. Can't be just applying for a license enough for someone to have a license. The license has to be won. Which is why no one's won yet, I don't know. Is it the former ministry's fault or this one, but the license has to be obtained if you've already prescribed these laws. There must be, because it's a public document, according to this law. I'm going to use this time left to just say that these changes and additions haven't solved the basic problems of education, and these problems are solved by special laws: the law on elementary school, the law on high school and those sublaws, the norms passed by the Ministry. These problems are: burden on students, how to reduce existing curricula, get out of existing programs what is excessive, that children are not burdened with excess and unnecessary things... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... how to reduce the number of students in the department, ensure that teachers and teachers in schools can work normally, with fewer students and how to provide material resources and for employees' salaries, to raise their motivation to a higher level and that their authority, which is lashed, returns to schools, as well as funds for material security schools, for their smooth and normal work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3796	Replica, MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3797	The basis for the replica is, I would say, a superficial and misreading of my presentation, on the context which the Minister of State came out before the break and gave her an overview. Before I say what part of my presentation, which is the basis of the replica, I think that the opening part of your address before the break, slightly speaking, is inadmissible for the National Assembly. Because you cannot, with all due respect to your function, which, above all, implies tolerance, professionality and responsibility, characterise the performance and argument of any MP here in the National Assembly and call it less valuable or call it by misrepresentation. Therefore, every argument of every MP deserves due attention. What I don't think is in your address is the persistent thesis that the reform of education, which awaits us after the adoption of this law, is in a reformed teacher, not in a reformed student. I didn't think of a single moment as a young generation, starting with preschool age, so as long as they feel young, and especially as long as they're in this system that's supposed to allow these spiritual youth to last as long as possible, hence the vitality of the spirit, I didn't think they were the subject of mere reform, as I don't think a teacher should be the subject of reform. The subject of reform should be a system, which will allow the teacher to be free and creative and the student to be a free and creative individual, and not to be locked up in some rigid frameworks, surrounded and famous curricula and the program that you are returning, thus suppressing the creativity of teachers, teachers and, of course, individuality and every need of a student as an individual; and to stop being, from preschool, first and second grade, the favorite verbs that are heard in classrooms and classrooms, which is, "I'll beat it out of your head, I'll break it in you, you're not here to think" and so on. If we're referring to teacher reform in that sense, then yes. But I don't think my fellow teachers deserve a generally demeaning relationship, and I don't want to talk about kids this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3798	The word has the People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3799	Dear President, Madam Minister, MPs, I must do something, first, for the public's sake. Now I found out, perhaps earlier, that one of the stations had reported that, apparently, Mr. Ljusic and I were in some negotiations this morning and that we had a deal. I'm saying this for me and Mr. Lyusic, not for anything else, therefore, for the truth. The statement someone made doesn't match the truth. As one of the MPs of the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, I have submitted amendments. The only one I'm talking to is the Committee on Education and Sports of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because their members are the only ones who are legitimate enough to decide on amendments. Mr. Ljusic's head is not a textbook, and I think the team is more in the interest of others, but everyone is saying to himself, to say it. There are a few things out here that I'd like to do in a certain way to fence myself. The first reference was to the book "From Game to Knowledge", and it is mentioned in the peri-curative sense. To those who are interested, the book was created in 1992 in talks with refugee children, ethnic Serbs, most often, who, due to different circumstances, came to this country. Many of them were without parents, without ageing, placed in homes and for that reason, because of trying to help these children and adaptations, there was a book and it's good that we have such a book, we never used it, in any seminar, because it's a book that exists for themselves, for my own sake, and that's what I want to say. The Council of Europe, namely, wrongly Mr. Albianic said that OECD had made some remarks, it was not, the Council of Europe was, I accept as a lapus; therefore, the Council of Europe had two more serious objections, one is the choice of directors and they wanted to transfer to the local community, we did not accept it, and the other is the inclusion in schools. So the inclusion of children with special needs, so they wanted to make it more potent. We didn't have the strength to do it, we tried, we gave it a maximum of ourselves, we don't have enough resources yet, but the inclusion was always our goal, because that's what children need. Examining as Director; Madam Minister said the directors needed to check English knowledge in communication, I agree, but then why the introduction of English and first class communication was a matter of respect for our ministry. So, we wanted to warn the situation that you directors had to be further educated and educated, so we gave it to them from first grade, to future directors from first grade primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3800	We're continuing the discussion. The word has a People's MP, excuse me, please, replica, just a second, Mr. Lushic, this was a replica to the address of the minister. I thank the People's MP Verica Radeti, who has distracted my attention, of course, there is no replica on the line. The word of the Messenger of the people is Svetislav Krstic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3801	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister and representatives of the Ministry, allow me to present some other views in front of the SPS regarding the issue on the agenda today. First of all, I want to highlight a very important fact, which is that we are discussing the law on education, namely the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of Education and Education, and we have been discussing it for several hours, and no one has mentioned the material position and the material situation in education. I think that's the key thing and that if we talk about reforms, and that's what we're talking about then, I think it'll be the biggest reform in education if some government manages to provide enough material resources and improve the situation in education. There is no reform of education with any laws, no papers, no money is needed to reform education. I think it's high time that the government, this government or some future government, since clearly the last government didn't do it, decided to act the same way as a parent does when he wants to educate his child. A parent will give up much of what, as our people say, will separate from the mouth to educate a child. Thus, this country, or government, must repair, separate from its mouth, and improve the material situation in education. We have some data that in Europe about 6% of gross national income is allocated to education. In our country, it is twice as much, since our gross national income is more than in an average developed European country, this means that we spend 20 and more times as much money on education. In the SPS programme, whose MP I am, it is a free education and that is what our citizens are interested in. They are not interested in much detail, whether something will be called one way or another, whether they will finally improve the material position in education and whether it will be possible to provide free or cheaper schooling, so that everyone can finish, or all children can finish certain schools. That is why this previous law, still valid, is changing, I hope for a very short time, which is constantly calling for reforms and is talking about reform. The word - reform, meaning change in shape, means some change, and it doesn't always have to be for the better. From the presentation of some colleagues from the former government, I got the impression that the most important thing in the Law on Education is that children are raised in some sense for democracy, etc. It is true, it is important, but the most important thing is that children, when they finish school, acquire certain knowledge, and precisely this amendment and the addition of the law proposed by the ministry, I take as an attempt not to prevent the flow of reforms, but to focus the reform in one direction that is more appropriate for the situation in which Serbia is today. The SPS has a lot of objections to the proposed text of the law, and in this sense we have made amendments, and some amendments have been adopted, some have not, this has been the case with the amendments of other parties; and I have to realize that the ministry has been quite open, because we have indeed tried together to find an optimal solution, because the fact is that the law is being passed by a reduced procedure. I'd like two things, if the law were passed by normal procedure, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if we weren't to bring amendments and additions to the law, but to pass a whole new law on the basis of the education system. I am convinced that after the constitution of the National Educational Council and after that, when this law comes to life, one of the most important jobs of the ministry and government will be to pass a new law on education. Please, there will be four months tomorrow as the Assembly is established and working. We've passed dozens of laws or 20 or more laws. All the laws are important, we'll probably pass more laws in the future, but this education law, it's very important, and why? Because the education system produces knowledge. If agriculture produces food, if energy produces energy, then education produces knowledge, and without knowledge there is no energy, there is no agriculture, there is nothing. So the absolute and most important and most competitive product is knowledge and it's clear to all of us here. However, we seem to forget that at times. I'll only give you one example, in U.S. gross national income over 75% of the income is related to patents, licenses, rights, etc. So, practically from the sale of knowledge. I would like to say that the previous law was, in the opinion of the professional public, so I am here not only to express the view of the SPS, but to the general public, and to the professional public – personally, although I am not working in education, I have talked to a lot of MPs and colleagues who have made reservations under this law, and I think that this law has changed a lot worse, and that is why it has not come across a wider support, so it is necessary to change it. As far as the law is concerned, I mean the one before, the first one, there were a lot of good things in it, they're absolutely good. Not if it wasn't for our experts being appreciated in the world. Our high school kids wouldn't win first place at the school Olympics. Let me just give you a specific example. A couple of years ago, at the High School Knowledge Olympics in Padua, our high school students won medals from all the classes that were in the competition, and from mathematics, physics, chemistry and information. They won more recognitions than representatives of much richer and much more developed countries, such as England, Germany, France, etc. Therefore, it is not true that the educational system in Serbia was not good. That's why this reform, which was carried out during the last government, was, in fact, going from a single assumption that unfortunately is often taken by us as a starting point, that nothing was right before. And according to that saying by the Roman consul "Carthage needs to be destroyed to the ground", it started with some kind of reform, which is obviously, here after a year, clearly they have to change. There is another reason why this law on education had to be amended. In fact, for the previous government, every 13 citizens with voting rights voted. Let me remind you that the DSS is like the backbone of the former government -- I'm not going to use the expression of the former regime, because I don't like the word regime, because that means cutting someone into someone, but I don't think we're doing it here -- so the DSS as the backbone of the previous government, along with these trabantic parties that are in the bloc, won about 500,000 votes. If you take 6.5 million Serbian citizens with voting rights, that means every 13 voted for it. Therefore, every 13th voter voted for this law as well. That's enough reason that this law must change and I'm a little surprised with how much perseverance the representatives of the previous government are trying to defend this law, when it's obvious that it hasn't come across voter support, and it would be better if they let themselves now and help with some of their experiences, make a new better law. I think that's our common goal. I'd like to say more, I'm being warned by my colleagues not to overstep for 10 minutes, in addition to what knowledge the citizens of our country have.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3802	Mr. Baptizer, let me tell you, you have no limit to 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3803	I know for a fact, and I believe that this was available to the public, that according to the Government of Japan, one of their prominent agencies was investigating the degree of education in some countries of Europe. Among those countries, I don't know exactly who they were, probably some of the developed countries, was our country, and the conclusion of that agency is that our citizens are the most educated. The fact that we don't know how to use the capacities at our disposal, that's another question. The fact that we allow a graduate student, which costs between $30,000 and $40,000, to go to the West somewhere, is another question. That's how we lost a few dozen billion dollars, so poor. It's a second question, but it's our job to make education as high as possible. I'm going to finish this exhibit of mine, and let me also say once again to send a message from the Socialist Party to this government, which is that it's important to do as much in the material work as possible for education, and to allow it to be available to everyone, that all children can complete education in accordance with their abilities. And not like the previous law, which was made, in our opinion, so that it creates a large majority of semi-educated or uneducated working classes that will work and a small elite that will be educated in elite schools or abroad. That's the situation in the West. I don't think that's a good thing, and we need to make the changes, so things can get to the point that suits us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3804	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nadika Momir.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3805	Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which is now in force and which was passed in the time of the former regime, is a disastrous law. The law amending and supplementing this law, which offers us the current regime, is bad and incomplete law. Understandably, it is difficult to correct former minister Gaša Knezevic's misdeeds and correct the disasters he has brought into the education and education system, but the current minister and the current government had to work a little harder. It's a good try, Madam Minister, I hope you can make it happen, which, by applying this law, you'll banish Soros and sects from school. It's a disaster, and it's the evil that's left in our schools as a result of the rule of the former regime. That is certainly why it was an additional complication for you when preparing this law, and another reason why this law is not good enough lies in the fact that this law, as well as some of the laws that we have here, which the government has given us for consideration and adoption, is due to the DOS conflict, I mean that complete DOS and this isolated DOS. That's what's wrong. The government must finally come out here with new, completely new solutions, with solutions that will really be in the interest of Serbian citizens. Now the question is, what happened to the DSS and what happened to the so-called. The DSS principles. Last June, this law was passed, whose amendments are now being proposed, and on June 17th, when the law was passed, it would not have been passed and would not have been adopted if the DSS hadn't done the quorum to the then DOS. Also, one of the DSS MPs, when this law was being discussed, we MPs remember for sure at the time, that colleague said that the bill was excellent, not good, but excellent, but that according to the DSS, it was only time for its application that a school year should wait to prepare some technical and technological conditions so that the law could be applied. The other day, on a TV show called "The People Ask", it seems to me that it was this show, I watched and listened to Mrs. Colic, and I was really mildly shocked by the fact that Mrs. Colic was unable to answer many questions, and related to the content of this law. I don't think that's good, because you, Mrs. Colic, by name and last name, of course the entire government, are responsible for the application of this law. What I noticed back then in that performance of yours - since we didn't know what we heard today in your paper on the interpretation of this law you read something here that we already have in this text, I expected to hear more, but I assume that during the debate you will be actively involved in the work - you said then that many important things are not regulated by law, so "left at will". This was your line, since you didn't answer to anyone at the time, I hope and expect that today you will respond to whom these important things are left at will, if you haven't regulated them by law. You also spoke about the number of Serbian language and mathematics classes and said that the number of classes would increase. It certainly supports the SRS. We think it's quite all right, but you said it wasn't regulated by law, too, but yes, yes, the citizens of Serbia can trust the DSS on the word that it will be. We, who don't believe the word DSS, are skeptical when it comes to these statements. You didn't even have the right answer to choose a director, but I'll talk about it a little bit more when I walk through the provisions of this law when it comes to order. Interesting was your comment on children with special needs. You said – we will not include children with special needs in schools, we will remove the Centre for Children with special needs, but the state will take care of them. Now I'm raising you to tell us -- how can you not go to school, you won't go downtown, in what way? And then you generously said that you would, behold, one of your working days, and that's May 31st, dedicate it to those children. We think that these children should be devoted to all possible days, not just one working day of the minister. Whether teachers or students are at the centre of reform and you yourself have spoken in replicas about the statements of some of the MPs, but while you are already talking about teachers who are at the centre of reform, it would be good for you to tell those teachers when this government is going to start taking care of their economic status a little bit, since, I suppose, you know, you are already preparing serious announcements of strikes, precisely because teachers say you have failed their expectations and that there is nothing of an increase in wages. What is important and what is not mentioned in this law; especially now in this period when enrolling students in high school. The solution we now have is disastrous and it is not just an SRS MP's opinion. Believe it is the general position of the citizens of Serbia. You offer a student to specify on enrolment of 20 schools, and one of these will be enrolled. By whose will, God knows. My nephew is now finishing an eight-year-old school, he's a great student, he's won many awards in various competitions, and the child is very worried about what he's going to do – he says – if he doesn't get into high school. I tell him - write it down 20 times, your wish is high school, so – high school, high school, high school... Well, I guess one of those 20 high schools is gonna listen to you. We also don't think it's right that awards from city and municipal competitions don't sting when they go to school. You also said at the time that your position and position of the party whose minister you are is not supposed to be scored. Now I would like to talk about the law; the SRS has submitted quite a number of amendments with the intention of essentially taking care of this law, to make it even better, and so that it doesn't really make sense, given the fact that I said at the outset and that the MPs of the SRS say, that there can be no worse law than the one whose amendments are now required by this proposal. In his opening statement, my colleague said that we support the existence of the National Educational Council, although there is much to be said about this advice, which is certainly disputable, from the way the council is formed, or from the promoter. The way, in essence, is good, for the congregation to choose that advice, but in our opinion, it would be logical to propose the committee of the congregation. And here, again, we have what I've noticed that you, Madam Minister, have pointed out, I'm going back on that show again, I don't know, in the advice provided by this law that we're changing, whether prominent experts are being chosen. Then you said what I agree with - who is he who will say who is a prominent expert. And here you have, too, here, Article 10(5), the council can educate permanent and occasional committees in the order of teachers, educators, professional associates and other prominent experts. If you've crossed it, fine. Nice. Because, indeed, who can say that someone is a prominent expert and someone is not. They're professional or you're not. We'll talk about the composition of this council when we talk about the law in particular, because it's really too little time for this kind of law to run in ten minutes, but it's interesting that you here predict various institutions, various centres, for example. for strategic development, textbook programme, employee development, etc. We in the SRS think it's all completely unnecessary. These are some institutions, councils, councils of councils, really unnecessary accumulation of administration, taking jobs to the ministry, duplicating and tripling jobs to the ministry, relative to the national council. So we've also suggested to you amendments that we delete it, because we think it's too high. When it comes to the work of the Council and the Office, in Article 25(4), you shall say – if it leads to the expiry of the deadline set out in Article 2 of this Article, it shall not prepare the necessary material, advice, or minister, to bring an act out of its jurisdiction, without professional processing of the Institute. I realized from this I didn't need to. If the minister can bring in without professional processing, then our position that the institute should not even exist is justified. The second question, in the final position of this law, is that if the Council does not adopt an act under its jurisdiction within the time limit laid down in paragraphs 3 and 6 of this Article, the act shall be adopted by the Minister. Then what happens to the institution that doesn't bring in the act but, well, it makes the minister have to work poor. That should be regulated by this law. Since, as I said, we will speak in detail and not be angry with my colleagues who are going to talk about this law, I will say one more sentence, and it is related to the teaching of civic education and religious teaching. It's not right that you predicted that a child who chooses one of those two objects can no longer change it, and I'll tell you why we think it. We have an example of Mother Jugovic Elementary School in Zemun. Last year, no student accepted religious education, so very quickly, the children themselves, imagine, the first grade of elementary school, came to their parents and said - what is taught in civic education is terrible, and I will no longer study it, and then during the school year they reoriented and today at that school no child listens to that civic education. Maybe you know about this one or this one, and that's why you predicted that it shouldn't change in the course of school, and we think it's necessary to change that too and that something that's academically true is. There, that's it, unfortunately I don't have time anymore, and I have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3807	I'd like to tell you my impression, I've talked to some of them today, that the law can be passed by the slalom technique, when you're counting on what number you need, and then you're going around these obstacles. If it's your time, then you're doomed to descend, then with a stopwatch in your hand you're trying to cross the road or time as soon as possible. The problem here is that the ninth grade, according to the concept that is represented in the now applicable law, is achieved in the positive law in the 2007 school year. If we go to the concept now offered in the bill, then the first ninth grade will come out in 2015. The current situation is such that there is no learning in Europe for less than nine years, in 2015 it will certainly not be less than 11 years. It's hard to predict, but it's possible and most likely. In a situation like this, we'll have trouble hiring our people and we won't be able to be an open country. If our goal is Europe, give us as soon as possible to introduce nine years of compulsory education, because we will join the labour market in Europe as well as in the European educational space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3808	The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Honorable Presidency, education reform is a concept that has been following us for quite a long time. We no longer need to remember how many blind streets were on this road called modern and quality education. It seems that at last the direction where this road is going now is clearly visible. He is a combination of everything that countries from the great families of European peoples have achieved in their educated systems, on one hand, and our educational and cultural traditions, on the other hand. So, the path is clear. The new connection to this road is pretty far away and the question arises - how do you get to it? The basic feature of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the system of education and education is that it does not recognise shortcuts, because it keeps those old ones - over the cross-section, around closer. The legislator does not strike a course in the previous law, but deals with an objective question, how much is the law, as such, applicable in practice. I think it's a new quality of our democracy, where instead of getting things back to square one, we keep everything that's right and we fix what's wrong. So the implementation of the previous law was controversial. It was not feasible in real time, and it is something that this bill processes in a better way, leaving enough time for schools and students to move from one system to another, without so-called. Sacrificed generations. In addition, this bill deals in a special way with the quality of education and education. The paper is that, instead of an educational council, a advice on vocational education and advice on harmonising attitudes in education, it educates a national educational council on the establishment of development and improvement of the quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education. The introduction of the National Education Council, firstly, reduces the degree of red tape at such an important level of education decision-making, thus providing conditions for increasing labour efficiency, secondly reducing budgetary burdens, which are in line with the general trend of rationalising budgetary spending. The proposal for this law and changes goes with the aim of increasing and centralising the system of education and seeking to put a decision on a triangle, school board, director, teachers, while the role of the ministry is reduced to a control function in terms of protection of legality. This approach lowers the decision-making level to where this decision should be operational and that all its effects, which is also the basic prerequisite for achieving quality. It is a very important paper that introduces a basic, electoral and universityal part into school programmes, as it provides a unified basic education for everyone and allows for the possibility that through electoral items students can identify themselves according to theirafinities. Finally, in the case of academic subjects, those who can and want to develop themselves in a more comprehensive and richer way than the average. I think it puts this system in an optimal relationship collectively, versus individually, with all their limiting factors. The bill that is before us deals with also one very sensitive thing. It aims to rehabilitate in the professional and social sense of teachers, as a central figure of implementation of the reform of the education system. For various, well-known reasons for us, the teacher has fallen quite well on the social scale, and when it comes to expertise. The promoter appreciates the real situation in which the pillar of reform is located and foresees a gradual process of re-uplifting it in both mentioned spheres. It is important to note that the proposing objectively makes nothing easier for the teacher. He's still not expected to be continuously, professionally perfected and evaluated, but he's just putting him in a real position, that this guy can really do it. I think we have a good bill of law before us, which should provide our children with schools more turned to them and their real opportunities, which will give them long paths of all comprehensive knowledge, as do their peers throughout Europe. This law will provide teachers with more creativity, freedom, but also obligations and responsibilities in the work, and hopefully to our parents less worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3810	The People's Messenger Miroslav Martic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this is one in a series of laws that is passed by emergency procedure. I couldn't remember almost any law that was in the regular procedure, although I may have an understanding of why, if this ministry already intends to amend and supplement the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, who will bring this law into an emergency procedure. I also have no understanding of some of the laws that were on this agenda of this congregation, and they were adopted and adopted by an emergency procedure. When it comes to this law, and so are many other laws, it is not good that they are adopted by an emergency procedure, for several reasons. The basic reason, as with this law, is that neither the public nor the people who are trained in education and education, nor those who work in education, nor the MPs have had enough time to get acquainted with the changes that this law provides and that, possibly, we are affecting amendments to improve the law or not to accept it. I don't think it's a good idea for every ministry or every minister who comes into a new government and the moment the new government is appointed to come out with proposals for amending the laws or supplementing the laws that were proposed in the previous period. As far as I've been following the expert public, and the discussion of the professional public and the staff in education, I've heard one and the other remarks, there have also been positive and negative reactions to the law that is now changing, but I have the impression that there have been more positive attitudes when it comes to education reform and the law that is changing at this point. I have to say that he's changing a little in an illegal way, because there was a Ministry of Education's obligation to consult the Educational Council when it comes to the motions to change this law, and, as far as I know, the Educational Council wasn't consulted on it, and the minister's explanation was that there was no time for that. A national educational council is being introduced instead of an educational council, which may essentially not be a bad solution. Many MPs have made a positive statement about it. What is contentious to us, as MPs of the Democratic Party, is the key proposed by the members of this National Educational Council and the number of members of that National Educational Council, and otherwise what is a good provision is that it is elected in the Assembly itself, not by the appointment of the Government. What was at the beginning of the dilemma and what was sort of a debate, is whether the proposed Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is a law that puts employees, i.e. teachers or children at the heart of reform, and I think it was somehow a bit of a wrong dilemma. In fact, the minister here in her pre-departure statement said that this law is in no way relevant to reforming children, and that is quite clear, there is no dilemma. We need, first of all, to reform the conditions in which these children are educated, in which they live. We need to reform something in our heads, we need to reform the overall political system we live in, the state we live in, and that it's not good for all of you who come out of our country to Europe to see it in the first step. In that sense, we should first and foremost talk about the material conditions of which one of the previous MPs spoke, but I will leave that to the end. This law introduces reforms in the education and education system, but I have the impression that in a long number of years, more and more attention is being paid to education and less attention to education. My personal impression is that this law, which has now been changed, has given an additional component or an additional line that has had an accent on education. I agree with the Minister, our children are not bad, our children are exactly who we are. The question is whether we are good, and how good we are, and the question is how many education reforms we make conditions for some education and education systems to change. I think our children are getting more aggressive as parents, and above all, the accent on us as parents, but even at school, we're getting less and less focused on their education. You have the latest example of a tragic case that happened in Nis, you have an example in Subotica, you have an example of excursions that parents pay, I don't even know how, how they provide funds for student excursions taking place abroad, in Greece, Hungary; and not only are there material problems for parents, but there is always a problem for certain incidents that can happen on these trips abroad, although you can see that they happen with us. You can see that our land, or our facades, our buses and everything else, is full of graphite. These graphs are mostly our children's drawing. I also have to tell you, if you've had the chance to go out to Europe, there's no such thing as anywhere else. When you get on new buses now, you'll see that they're full of graphites and when you get on the buses, you can see that kids don't even think about getting up on the bus, they're just about to get on the bus first. I know it may not have anything to do with Madam Minister right now, but it has a lot to do with the educational component. I have an example to illustrate. In Užic we were able to restore the facade of the first elementary school after 30 years. The next day, a 10m-long graphite – Seselj, a Serbian hero, took place on that facade. And I don't believe it's what the kids wrote, that the students wrote that graphite, but it's terrible when one such political graphite shows up at school, no matter what political party it's about. When it comes to a provision relating to religious teaching or civic education, I agree with the SRS MP, Mrs Verice, and my objection is completely identical. So, in the previous bill, students were able to choose to follow a part of the teaching from religious education and a part from civic education. However, by amending the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, they have been disabled, both when it comes to basics and when it comes to high school. At the moment they opt for religious education or for civic education, they must attend one of these courses by the end of schooling. Then we heard reasons for and against the license. The license had to be introduced and it was due to be reviewed every five years. Is this a good period I'm not sure, but I'm quite sure it took time for the license to be put to check for several reasons. The existing law is only possible to suspend the licence, and no termination is possible. That's not good, because someone who gets one license has it by the end of their working life, which means that an educator can be prone to alcoholism, drug abuse, and don't give God to pedophile, and he can't be taken away from a license under the existing law, which I think is a very bad solution. So, it doesn't matter if he's professional, whether he's educated, whether he's capable of working in education, under the existing law, he's practically prevented from losing his license. What's good in this law, and I have to commend it, and that's my personal opinion, is that repeating the class goes back to the old ones, or repeating it with three weak grades instead of five. I worked a few years in education, and I know, when someone repeats with three weak, he must have had six or seven weak. Then the system of bargaining, a little indulgence, a little persuasion from the education, it all comes down to two weak ones. Whoever had three must have had a few weak ones before that. With five weak guarantees he had twice as many, which means he had two-thirds of the weak grades, and then we get into a situation where someone who was 10 before the end of the school year doesn't have to repeat the class if they have four weak ones. I think it's a good provision, that's the legal provision that brings back the transition to the second class of the old system. Finally something about the material position of educators. I think it's one of the essentials of this reform and all the other reforms. I think the former Ministry of Education has made significant progress when it comes to the position of educators, especially when it comes to their personal incomes. I think this ministry has a duty to do much more in this sense to improve the material position of the educational staff and the overall state of the school facilities. No reform of education, no reforms in the heads of educational workers, until their material position improves. We can talk here about this law and the previous, submit amendments, dear colleagues, until the position of the educators is improved further, neither this nor any other reform will come to life. In addition to that, I finally have to use this time to bring up a problem that's connected to the Uzis. It is not directly related to this law, but it is related to the Ministry of Education, since I have failed to reach the minister nor as the president of the municipality, nor as an MP this three months, the procedure for reaching the minister is very difficult. I just have to imagine that someone who isn't in a position to be an MP or president of the municipality can even reach certain ministers. This isn't just about Madam Minister of Education. This also applies to some of the ministries of the previous term. Unfortunately, the procedure has been established. First you call the secretary, so you have to explain to the secretary why you're calling, in detail, so she tells you to send a fax message, so you send that memo through fax. When you call again, you are not sure whether the memo reaches the minister or not and tells you again – send it by fax. Since I failed to reach the minister, I must personally give this to her, and behind this are all the MPs from Užica in this House, which means MPs of the DSS, and the MPs of the DS, and there are 15 parties from Uzic, who signed this, both parliamentary and non-parliamentary, and the SRS, and the DSS, and the GSS, and the NS, and the SPO and DS. The problem is with High School of Medicine, which began to be made in Uzica 20 years ago. Madam Minister, it's this building. The work at that school stopped 15 years ago. The school started working on self-dependence. At this point, the threat of stopping the work at this school is that there is no means in the Ministry of Education to complete this school. I also spoke with Minister Dinkic and Deputy Prime Minister Labus. I know there are problems at the Ministry of Education when it comes to finance, but this was one of the priorities. In addition to the Zrenjanin High School of Medicine, it seems to me, this was the only secondary school in Serbia. I appeal, and I ask of you, on behalf of all the MPs who signed this and on behalf of all the political parties in Uzic, to find the possibility of not interrupting the work at this school, because at this point it is due to the workers of 40 million dinars. Otherwise, more than 150 million have been invested in the school so far, through rough construction works, construction land and project documentation. It is a high school that is important for all of Western Serbia. In that sense, I'm looking for and I'm appealing, and I'm asking you to give this to you, so that it won't be if you didn't get this, that you're engaged so that the work at this school doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3812	The People's Messenger Nenad Lemajic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3813	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, the DSS has repeatedly pointed out that education reform is a very important segment of the transition processes in which we are now. In principle, we supported the previous government's efforts to reform education. Even after these principles, huge differences have emerged regarding the determination of strategic directions and the pace of reform. We have repeatedly pointed to unnecessary errors in the steps and straining the system towards change, which are mostly not verified in the quality discussion of pedagogical institutions and experts. We have made it clear that fast and frequent, and in terms of strategic support, unfounded changes, will lead to system collapse, with catastrophic consequences for the system itself and society itself. We pointed to this possibility during a debate on the law in June 2003. The changes proposed by the government by the DSS have been welcomed for all these reasons with approval. We need them, first of all, to reopen the fundamental debate on education reform. This story must take place within the framework of the National Educational Council, which we hope, as soon as possible, will propose an education reform strategy, which, in a political sense, needs to be verified in the Assembly, because it is too serious for its strategic concept to depend on any government. For the sake of the public who is following this, which has been served several times by the untruth, I want to make it clear and loud that these changes do not begin any new reform. There is no reform of the DSS that replaces the reform of the former ministry of education and a group of NGOs. There is no reform of G17 plus, the SPO and New Serbia. It's about responsible parties. The DSS will never allow itself to impose or attempt to impose, violently or through the congregation majority, its solution in this area. The story of education is reopened in the most qualitative way possible - by forming the body of the responsible Assembly, which will deal with this problem at the strategic level. The arguments heard about the lack of strategic documents would be justified if this were about a new law or legal regulation of the education strategy. That's just not true. The name itself says that this is about amendments to the laws, and changes that allow them to come out in time and without great harm, of the way in which the system of education, the poor assessment of the previous helms, has begun. At the same time, the ministry apparently respected the uncontested ideas of the previous period, maintaining the provisions of the laws that allow for greater flexibility of the teaching process, thus creating conditions to eliminate one of the biggest shortcomings in the previous system, which emerged in its excessive cruelty. A system of licensing has also been left, which I believe will be a very important factor in improving the quality of education in the future. The evaluation centre, though, under a rogue name, would be better to use the name – the center for evaluation and evaluation, surely the most significant quality contribution from the previous period, gets these changes in importance, turning into an office with essential competences. Of course, there was a question of what to do with the system while the principle debate on the mentioned issues took place. The current law envisioned changes in the basic education system, conceiving it as nine-year-olds, according to system 3+3+3. Leaving these legal provisions would prejudge any debate, and in reality these changes would not be enforceable. Therefore, the system of these amendments has been placed in a state in which it works best traditionally, which does not prejudge any final solution, nor is the framework of work given in any way to the future National Educational Council. To recapitulate, the amendments to the law have respected all the quality pedagogical heritage, including the one from the near past, and a democratic and essential discussion on these important issues has been opened. From these reasons, the DSS parliamentary group will give amendments and additions to the law full support.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3814	On what basis do you want the word? (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: Replica. Sir Prince, there is no basis for replication, I am sorry. The People's MP Darko Glisic has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System at the beginning has one feature that separates it from all other legislative proposals that were before this Parliament, which is that even before you read it and before you read it, and before you look at any of the items in this bill immediately at the beginning, you know that it is better than the previous law, because the previous law was so bad, so negative for the education of young people in this country, that every other law that is passed and related to this area is immediately better. The previous law, it is not only the MP Zlatan Jovanovic for this speaker pointed out as his impression, it is the impression of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, it is "Gasin's Law". So it was insulted among the people, which is what they refer to as "Gasha's Law", which aimed to reverse the entire system of education of young people in this country, who had the goal and to identify Serbian history, the significant figures of Serbian history with Paia Patko, which was already in these textbooks that were printed according to this programme, which was likely to make Mickey Mouse a brighter Serbian character of bright Serbian history, something that probably would have young people in Serbia gathered, not holy Sava, and not a lot of what we had from our history, which we could put in textbooks, which we were praying to build on and to base the entire system of our education. So I understand the urgency of this procedure, and it's really good to suspend this law as soon as possible, and I hope that as much as today or tomorrow we will send this law into history, which symbolized the previous DS regime where Mr. Gašo Knezevic participated, and in the sea of bad laws, and everyone was literally bad, this one pointed out in its negative traits and everything he contained. What would be my objection to this bill proposed by the current Ministry of Education, I will refer to several members, and mostly by the MPs of the SRS. As for the nationalisation of the apparatus itself, which is intended to improve and determine the system of education, I mean the national council, it's good that it is a national council, but our fundamental observation is why this has subsequently been settled into these two institutions, and therefore these institutions have later divided into centres that will process certain areas. We think, from our point of view, that it would be a good idea for this national council to have its own committees, which could arrange those areas that you've predicted to be arranged by the institutions, or centres in these institutions. Another important thing I would like to draw attention to, and it is related to Article 58 and Article 59. For example, Article 59 says - if the ministry does not give consent to someone's appointment (just a little bit to find it), it is thought that the school board's decision on the selection of directors has been made, or that the minister has given consent to it if, within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision, no act rejecting consent. I think it would be a good idea, Mrs. Colic, to accept, I think there are amendments, to throw such an item out of this article of the law, it would be very good if each appointment was agreed upon by the ministry. We can get into a situation where in one place we have a director of a preschool, a principal of a primary school, that the director of a pre-school institution gets consent from the ministry, that you do well to give consent to his choice, and that you bring the principal of a primary school under this Article 59, so under this attitude, that you do not give him your consent and that if he believes that within 30 days he is appointed director, I think for the sake of unification, for the sake of respecting anyone who is appointed director of a pre-school institution, then, the ministry must give consent. I hope that you will have the understanding of this remark and that you will, therefore, avoid it so that someone has the consent of the ministry and no one does. People are a little vain, someone's going to misread it. As for Article 58, where you predict that a teacher who has more education and a license for an educator can be selected for kindergarten director, I can tell you from some experience, since I am a member of the Committee on Urbanism, I have had the opportunity to have experience with these licences, because they have licensed engineers, architects and there have been very many abuses. So there was politicization. I understand that you will say that you, from your point of view or from your ministry, will try to avoid it, but it is almost impossible to avoid any monopolies in such an area, where you predict a license, then giving a license. I just think that someone with their working experience, education, a career they have in education, so if he's got it all, I think that's quite a condition for him to be elected director of an institution. Someone here mentioned that we have very few quality and educated people, especially in smaller environments, who would accept such a job and who are able to carry out such a job. I think this way, we'd even lower the number of those people who would take that job. It would be very good to get rid of it. When I'm with a member of the 58th, the same explanation for this is a passed exam. You have predicted, therefore, for the Director, that a special exam must be carried out; I also think that this is the wrong provision, because indeed, I repeat once again, the recommendation goes on the basis of some experience, and it recommended you to be minister of your rich work experience, not licensed as minister, but simply something that is in your biography. So it would be very good if, when we choose someone as director, it was in his biography that he worked for 10, 15 or 20 years in education, that he was experienced, that he had something in his past that qualified him for something like that. It's unnecessary to limit it to licenses and some tests. It's a good thing he's back in eight. I think it's pointless about nine classes and it's something that would complicate the entire education system. It's a good thing he's eight. My principle observation is to be evaluated; in article 101, you predicted that for the first two classes it would be descriptive, I think that since going to school, that this evaluation should be numerically and evenly, that we do not now have that transition and that after the second grade, when the child goes to third grade, he must also get used to that numbering system. I think children have to get used to it from the beginning, so that their grades are numbered for each and every one of them. With these boards of directors, therefore with the managing authority, I have another principled remark; I think that the ministry should give its consent to the boards of directors, since these are state institutions, that the state is the founder and must have control, the Ministry should give its consent to each board of directors and consider those who are proposed for this Management Board and thus have direct control and direct insight of who are those who manage institutions that are under the authority of the Ministry of Education. I hope that you will have understanding and that you will appreciate what the SRS has said for this speaker, which is our programming basis and that you will improve this bill that, since it is quite realistic that Tomislav Nikolic will win 13 June, we would not need to change it much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3816	The People's Messenger, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević. The remaining time of the DS parliamentary group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, once again on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, I must express my dissatisfaction that this law is also under emergency procedure and that this is a 12-session session in the regular session and we have not had one single law under that procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but all the laws are faster -- better passed by emergency procedure. There is another important system law, and that is what Mr. Knezevic was saying, does not contain his full explanation in the text of the law, and there are insufficient reasons for the urgent procedure. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, as one of the most significant acts in the field of education, is adopted beyond the established procedure, without the opinion of the current Educational Council, on the basis of Article 12 of the applicable law. So, we could say, those who respect the law and institutions do. Also, all without a public hearing, all without an expert opinion. The Ministry of Education did not inform the educational and general public of the purpose and intent to amend and supplement the Law on the system of education, but rather made it secret and hidden against the declared transparency in the work of the Government. I must point out that when the law is passed that you are now changing around 20,000 actors took part in a public debate and it would be logical to include a number, if not in the same size, and at least partially similar, in a public debate when adopting amendments and supplementing this law. I say, it would also be necessary if it wasn't done, then that a positive opinion of the professional public was put in place. That wasn't here. With the new law, we can call it a new law, because it practically changes almost half the current law, they don't change in order to improve it, but they do in full change in the education system, and the changes in the system, you'll agree, they don't work within what is smaller than what we have, you've had the opportunity to hear in the morning part of the debate,14. May we received the law on the table, or as MPs we had the opportunity to see both the final text and the final version. The best example that this law is not good is that some institutions that existed during the Milosevic period or before Milosevic were introduced. One of these is the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. It's an institution that's been shut down by law since 1992. I don't understand, as well as DS MPs, why he's in a hurry to change the education system without having seen the final outcome of this system, which was previously formed. It's simply someone from the Ministry or personally the minister himself thought it was enough to have a conversation with individual educational workers from Zemun and that's enough. Do you really want to fix this law or do you want everything the previous government has brought, for no real reason whatsoever, to change. We don't understand it, we don't understand the hasty, the exclusion, because we know that the highest price will be paid by children. Unfortunately, it's been found, I'm undermining once again, that this time a school will be formed that will be quite the opposite of what we've defined in the previous law. You don't need a school to measure every child, but first of all you need children to measure the school. A statement by one of the deputy ministers that the previous reform was directed at the child, and this one would be directed at the teacher, at the first moment it seemed to me like a lapus, but when I looked closely at the law I saw there was no lapus. In Article 96, the view is cast out that the educational discipline measure can only be given to the student for the injury committed during the current school year and the deadline for the launch of the disciplinary procedure from 15 days to 60 days is extended. Also, the 101st member is interesting. The provisions have been abolished that the student repeats the class with more than four weak grades and returns to the old solution that the student repeats the class with two insufficient grades, and that the correction exam takes only one time, in August, and not as it is in this law to correct a weak grade within two deadlines, June and August. In the same article, it is proposed that students be evaluated at least two times instead of at least four times during the midterm, which, of course, you will agree, support campaign learning. That's something that must be bad. Also, claims that this law has been implemented within itself and those parts that the EU has given or agreed to do so simply do not stand. In fact, EU countries adopted strategic education goals by 2010. These strategic goals, I will try only briefly to list them, require first and foremost improving the quality and efficiency of the education and training system, improving education and professional training of teachers, it does not exist here or is being constrained. One of the strategic goals is to facilitate access to all education and training systems in light of leading principles, greater attractiveness of learning; this is not here. Opening a system of education and training towards the outside world, strengthening links between the world of work and research of society in general, improving foreign language teaching, all of these are about goals that unfortunately do not stand in the bill that we have here. Is it possible that education policy is tailored by people who do not realize in their political blindness that education science is developing, that its achievements must be respected and that they must not be ignored, first of all, the obligation to have full responsibility for children. It is true that the previous system was more based and applied to the professional obligations of teachers, and in order to increase the efficiency of the quality of learning of children, but is that bad? That is why we propose to the National Assembly that this bill is not accepted or an even better solution for the Ministry, or the Government to withdraw this bill from the procedure, for a simple reason, because quality education is a national interest, not a party interest. We want a school that will comply with EU standards and international conventions, because a school that respects individual needs, interests and opportunities of each child is the only prerequisite for quality education. This law is a retrograde law, this is a bad law and MPs of the DS, and despite all the desire to vote and correct this law, I cannot accept the bill submitted by the competent ministry. And in accordance with Article 82(2), given that you are doing everything by emergency procedure, I demand that you establish a quorum because I doubt the credibility of the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3818	You've expressed your doubts about the electronic system. I ask the Service to count the MPs, as I suspect the electronic system. They've expressed their doubts about the electronic system, so we're gonna have to... The ministry has determined by counting that 107 MPs are present in the O.R., so we can continue our work. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zvonimir Stević, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared Branislav Rankic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. People's MPplatmir Stevic is here after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3819	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, Madam Minister, Associates, proposed law on amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System is a qualitative and essential change compared to the current one, and restores the reputation and the necessary national dignity of the educational system in Serbia. This particularly concerns achieving the interest of the state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, as it determines the unity of Serbia's overall education system, prevents its decommissioning and decommissioning from Serbia's overall education system. At the same time, this applies to all the degrees of education, although it was the most drastic attempt at the university, as the proposal for the University of Pristina statutes, based in Kosovo, Mitrovica, wanted to take over UNMIK's administration and the Transient Government of Kosovo and Metohija. By adopting this law, as well as by approving the University of Kosovo Mitrovica to increase the number of students to be enrolled in the next school year, the institution is gaining importance and encouraging the remaining Serbian animal to stay in Kosovo and Metohija. The planned competition for 262 new professors and associates at this university is a significant incentive for raising the level and quality of teaching and strengthening the human resources of this higher education institution. I consider it appropriate to point to the spatial problems this university faces, both in the area of teaching, and in the labs to perform exercises, but also to provide space for the accommodation of students and teaching staff at the university. That is why I am rightly asking the competent ministry to vote with the newly elected head of the university to provide the necessary conditions for the work of about 7,000 students at this university. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law relating to the composition and structure of the National Education Council. I did this not for formal but essential reasons, because it is necessary and comprehensive to represent representatives of the University of Pristina, based in Kosovo Mitrovica, as well as the University of Kragujevac and the Community of Teacher Colleges of Serbia. As far as representatives of the University of Kosovo Mitrovica are concerned, this has a lot of justification, given the events in Kosovo and Metohija and problems in the field of education, as well as the constant attempts by MONT to drown educational institutions with classes in Serbian language in the Albanian education system, all under the alleged control of UNMIK. In Kosovo and Metohija, besides the university, has 32 secondary and 68 primary schools, and a total of 19,515 students attend the course. It's 6,304 in high school. The latest developments in the ethnic cleansing of the Serbian population on 17 and 18 March this year have further strengthened the security and lack of school space. As is known, a number of schools housed faces that burned down and destroyed the entire property. At the same time, I point out, and you know well, after familiar events, that all secondary schools that were moved to rural areas, Serbian enclaves, and that teaching takes place in three shifts, which certainly does not contribute to the necessary quality. Although the provision of material costs to schools is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, they do not receive any funds for that purpose, and I do not know what the reason is for late payment of salaries to local self-government, since it is within the jurisdiction of local self-government to pay material costs. When local self-government doesn't get paid or material costs, how it's going to pay for the material costs to the schools, but we talked at the Parliament Club and I hope we get to that solution very soon. Also, I stress that the former, or former, Ministry of Serbia, I do not know for what reasons, has bypassed educational workers in Kosovo and Metohija in the past year when it comes to professional training of teaching staff. I would also point out the problems that will arise after the adoption of the law in the course of the appointment of school committees by local self-government. From a formal legal point of view, there are no problems and as far as the law is concerned, but there are no local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, local co-ordinators exist. Who's gonna name the school board? If we let go and give rights to individuals, will come to the will and express subjectivism. Finally, on behalf of the SPS, I am taking the opportunity to give recognition to the educational workers and employees of the educational institutions in Kosovo and Metohija on a special contribution to the survival of education, and hence also to the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3820	The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is indeed one law before this assembly relating to several million directly involved in the process of education and education, primarily to children who are students in this process, to those who are teachers, and others who participate in education institutions, and also to their parents as actively involved in the process of education, given that the modern vision of education largely involves the involvement of parents of children. Of course, indirectly all citizens, the entire social community, are interested in this law and that it would be much better to have had a little more time to discuss this, and hence to pass perhaps a better law, to write more amendments. Perhaps we would have more time to convince Mrs. Minister that some of the solutions that we have proposed are more celery and better. It is good that this law, first of all, will cease to apply certain provisions of the basic law, and in the end we will avoid what started to happen with education, namely we had practically through primary education extended preschool education, kindergartens and overall learning, the education process came down to play and some optional subjects. Also due to the way the evaluation was assessed, it was not possible to give an adequate assessment of the degree of knowledge acquired in the process. However, this is just a proposal to amend and supplement, and the basic law has served us as an idea, as well as some laws in distant countries, and by culture and geographically, are primarily meant for a wide population of which it is not expected to participate tomorrow in any governance processes in the country. So when I say this, I mean the U.S., where the largest number of children is through primary education, including secondary education, is denied for knowledge from some fundamental sciences. They are practically for those who choose and prepare to be the state-run establishment of the best schools tomorrow and they really have both a cunning and smart fit in the state-run establishment or their companies. Everything else is on one much lower level and that is their intention. I had a chance last year to stay in the U.S., in Arkansas, where I attended an event you might not believe, but I'll tell you about it for a while. Namely, a big supermarket posted an ad for the cashier's reception. Since more than the required number has been reported, the elimination question on the test has been reported – if the electric register runs out of power and if the article costs eight dollars, and the customer gives you ten dollars, how many dollars of change you have to return, and not everyone knew that answers, and it is about those who are more than 18 years old. It is good that we have avoided such a system of education, but something else in this law is bad, and we have also criticised it on the Education Committee, and it is primarily about administrative support for law enforcement. The concept of the SRS was not to have a bunch of administrations, first of all, given that because of the growing economy that is still stopping, it's not true that economic growth exists, we won't be able to fill the budget and we won't be in a position to define everything that education needs. Namely, we were against the centers, against the expert teams that the centers can organize. The members of the professional teams, the law stipulates, have the right to stand still working in those companies they come from, so that we get a large number of professionalised people and thus build up the state administration, and by more than four and a half thousand people the state apparatus in the administration has increased since 2000. I mentioned America a moment ago, and I'm going to tell you something else in which it would be good if this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law was better, which would have been achieved to adopt some of our amendments. It's about the fact that the average adult American changes seven different professions for his working life, not the companies he works for, but the professions. You know that the future that we're entering is going to be very difficult to predict what it will take for a year to learn, what a qualification structure it will be in our economic structure. I'll only tell you on one case. I don't know if there is a school somewhere in Serbia that teaches mobile telephone repairs, and look at all of Serbia's cities how many services you already have for mobile telephony. Some things and certain phenomena in society will hinder what the ministry and what laws provide for in advance, and educational advice that can foresee as possible, in the future, what needs of people are; therefore, it is necessary for the law to have flexibility in this respect. When I mentioned the Enlightenment Council, it was important that it be established and the wish of the promoter was that in the future, at least what is basic, and regarding the process of education and education, it would not be related to the current policy that is being implemented in the country or to the current political majority that will be gathered in the Assembly, although it will be very difficult to apply in practice, because eventually the majority will always appoint those members of the council who are willing to do so, and ultimately, there is also a way to resolve, before the term of office, those who are appointed for six years. However, a major problem in school is not just a legal arrangement. The big problem is inequality when it comes to standards in certain school facilities. You had a chance, the citizens had a chance to see a report a few days ago, according to which snakes were placed in a village school. Kids don't go to that school anymore. Someone offered them a private room to study in. Of course, we have schools that are equipped, they should be equipped, but we have rural schools where there are one or two students, and that's why it's good to stop the previous law with importance, because there were, within these children's games, situations where school benches should be lined up, and that somehow leads to children getting closer together, and you know that there are schools and departments in Serbia where there are only one or two students, and they are denied the satisfaction of further socializing in this way. In fact, it's impossible to put one bench in a circle. When it comes to something left in this law from the previous one, it is that children can decide on one of the two electoral subjects: civic education and religiousism. I don't know if she was aware of the previous ministry's intentions or not, but the facts show that we're practically creating two completely mutually different worlds among children. In fact, it is impossible for children to find something in common on a great vacation, if the children at the Civil Training School learn that, for example, the full generality between the same sexes is perfectly normal, and in Veronauc they learn about the world of Savi. I can't do it tomorrow on a big school vacation as kids who'll have a lot in common. I'm afraid this has been a major bribery to the Serbian public, a practical courtship to the Serbian Orthodox Church. On the other hand, advocacy and the great struggle of NGOs, which have the intensities to constantly impose on us a democracy that should be in excess of countries where these organisations are central. That's why I think it's devastating and that there's got to be a much better and much more celery solution. The minister listed here that the aim of the law is, among other things, democratisation, decentralisation and depolitisation. It's one of the things used in pre-election campaigns, and it doesn't mean anything by itself, except a declarative pawn, but it should add a fourth "d" even though it doesn't exist here, and that's discipline. It is impossible to imagine a school without discipline and however much society is eager to introduce as many democracies as possible, as much as any kind of democracy can be present in schools, what are the rights and obligations of students and their teachers that must be implemented exclusively through discipline. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3822	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, after Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3823	Ladies and gentlemen, the last time I was behind this speaker, in an attempt to talk about the Excise Act, I told you that I stand before you as a MP and exclusively as a representative of the citizens of Serbia, since I know little about the economy. Today my role is more complex and so much more responsible. I'm here in several roles, primarily as a representative of Leskovec citizens. Of course, I am also here as a representative of the coalition that has the parliamentary majority, which supports the government, and in some ways I am also a representative of the government that proposes this law. I am also here as a representative of my party G17 plus and MPs G17 plus, a party that advocates the democratisation of society and root reform in all areas of society. Also, here today in front of you and as an expert in the area we're talking about, given that, as I have already mentioned, I have devoted most of my professional engagement to working with children. Of course, in many cases, I have dealt with the problems they have in their development and these problems have, unorthodoxly, been caused by a system of education. Of course, by solving these problems, we worked with both parents and teachers, and with professional psychological and pedagogical services in schools. However, in the end, but also at the beginning, today I also speak to you as a representative of parents, given the fact that I am a parent of two children of school age, second and sixth grade pupils of primary school. Why am I telling you all this? Because I want to make it clear to you what position I'm speaking from and which of these positions is, at this point, the most important thing to me. I don't think it's hard to guess. If the Law on Education in any way brought conflict to any of the roles I mentioned, the hierarchy of roles would be quite clear. Namely, there is not a single interest in the coalition that could compromise the interest of a reform and democratically-oriented party to which I belong. Also, there is not a single party interest that could endanger my professional and personal integrity, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, all of us who are parents know that very often and our own system of values are ready to undergo questioning when our children's interests are at stake. With all this in mind, I want to tell you today, first of all, I speak as a parent and on behalf of the G17 Plus party, but also on behalf of my interests and all the children in Serbia. Why is all this important? This is important because the law we're talking about has caused heated controversy in public. This whole controversy has been trying to answer some of the questions. She mostly focused on a few questions. These are the following: do we want reforms or do we want to go back to the old ones; do we want school as a beetle or a school as a creative space? Do we want children who will only learn, learn and who will be subject to strict rules, or do we want children who will be free and creative individuals? Do we want to go to Europe or do we want to go back to our autistic space? The public of Serbia, the media, civil society, the professional public, parents, gave a clear answer to the issue. Of course, we want reforms. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that for G17 plus this is great news and we think this is great news for Serbia. Of course we want reforms, but anyone who has ever, even a little bit, been dealing with the methodology of a public opinion study knows that in these cases is not an answer but a problem. Skillful public opinion manipulations can easily challenge the answers they want if they ask the appropriate question. You remember that famous 90-year-old referendum, I wouldn't quote it now. Of course, there are questions that everyone will give a positive or negative answer to. We MPs G17 plus, not wanting to be manipulated, but carefully listening to Serbia's public, we have sought answers to these questions. We were very serious about the amendments and additions of this law, reading countless times the law, every member of it, every word of every member of the law. We also read a number of other literature dealing with the analysis of the educational system in Serbia, as well as the analysis of other systems in Europe and their experiences, numerous performances and suggestions from professional associations, organisations, trade unions. As you've heard from my colleague, and the remarks that the Council of Europe, that is, its commission, had on the previous reform. Of course we've also read the previous ministry's report. All these readings have brought us back again and again to the fact that in these amendments and additions we are not asked and it does not answer the question whether or not we are going to reform, but it answers the question of what kind of refraction we want. I don't mean to be suggestive, but perhaps the question is whether we want to achieve or not. That's what I wanted to tell you at the beginning and not just at the beginning, but with all this in mind and going back to the law again, I want to say what, with all these positions that I've been talking about, I consider in this law essentially and what I consider reform. I think it's very important, and it was very important to me as a parent, that this law remains the possibility of electoral and university subjects. This is what will make our education system more flexible and enable it to be adapted to the needs of the child, to the individual interests of the child, that is where we have the opportunity to direct the child to its needs and its essence. I also find it very important, contrary to some of the opinions we have heard, to remain descriptive grades in the first two grades of primary school, because I feel responsible for saying this as an expert and as a parent, that it is very difficult and almost impossible to number the child in the first grade of primary school. Its developmental characteristics are not such that it can be maximumly concentrated on a control task that we're going to evaluate by an A or a unit. Then this evaluation was based on unrealistic evaluation, all students of the fifth grade, or depending on what kind of teacher she was and how much understanding she had in relation to the children. The descriptive evaluations are part of the reform, and they are very important. Many other things are not contained in this law simply because this is not a law that can detail whether or not there will be reforms. It is now a question of some other laws, a law on elementary school, a law on high school, some sublegal acts, and above all, it is a question of how in practice this reform will be implemented in the classroom. So what will be curricula and programmes, school programmes, and how all of this will be realised in practice, what will be the control of reform in classrooms. It's all what's ahead of us. Reform is a process that we have begun and that we must all keep an eye on. I want to draw your attention to a few more things that have been heard in the past, and I need to express my personal disappointment and dissatisfaction with what's been happening, given that people who know very well what they're talking about have presented to the public, I have to say, untrue. It was also a dominant personal emotional tone that went through this whole campaign, and that's what made me very unhappy, and I have to say I'm also disappointed, because I've been able to believe in people who've had previous reforms as an observer, as a citizen and as a parent. I expected people who advocated tolerance, constructive dialogue, non-violent conflict resolution, constructive problem solving, who told us that our children wanted to learn the skills of listening, not all of which were applied at the time they were on the exam. In fact, I have to inform them that tolerance involves not only the tolerance of the same-minded, but at the moment of the conflict of opinion, a high degree of tolerance should be expressed. That's what wasn't there in the previous period. I really don't want to believe it, and I'm sure it's not so that this high emotional tone was motivated by some lower personal reasons. I took it as a personal injury to people who have put a lot of effort and knowledge into something they believed in, but I still think when we're working on something that's very important and of the general interest we really have to try not to call it personal, our names, but to simply be something that's common. I think in such situations we should keep our emotions under control as long as possible. Namely, what was going on? I've heard a lot of false things. I have to say, I'm from people I believe have seriously heard quite unserious qualifications. One of them is that from now on, teachers will be able to work in schools to harass, even sexually abuse children. I read that in a newspaper, a statement was made by one person who should be serious. It's a very unserious statement, I have to say, for the simple reason it's not true and it's constructed. It is not true that such teachers will be able to work in schools, because there are clearly envisaged sanctions for them, not only in terms of the ability to lose their jobs but also of course to lose their license. Article 118 of this Law clearly defines situations in which teachers will lose their license. So it's a complete delusion that everyone will be able to work with children anyway. I have to say that I personally advocate the renewal of the license for five years, but it's simply not true that unless it happens, everyone will be able to work with the children anyway. Also, as far as English is concerned, there have been numerous speculations, and simply this law does not specify and opens the possibility that English can be learned in lower classes of elementary school, but does not oblige every school in each part of Serbia to provide English language teaching. I regret to inform the parents of the elite Belgrade schools that there are schools throughout Serbia in remote rural areas that simply do not have the conditions not only for teaching English, but have no conditions for teaching otherwise. I have to tell you that 10-15 days ago in a village called Gradanica, near Leskovci, a snakebed was discovered at school. A year and a few days ago, also in a village near Leskovci, named Jajina, crashed under a classroom where the school ceremony took place. Only by chance, there were no major injuries to the children. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Serbia and unfortunately there are no ideal conditions for the development of school programs and it is not possible to introduce in all schools all the programs that we would like to have for our children. In order not to be too long, I want to tell you that reforms will take place through teaching programmes, through the selection of members of the National Educational Council, through other laws that we will also bring here in the Assembly. The G17 plus will closely monitor these reforms, from the Assembly and the Assembly Committee, through the Ministry, through the National Educational Council, to the classrooms themselves, because it is very important that the school reform is implemented, that the educational process is such that our children are happy and satisfied, because we know that in Serbia, as in all other countries of the world, everything starts with children and everything remains on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3824	The People's Messenger, Esad Djudjevic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3825	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam Minister, I would like to say very briefly, and given the time, I say at least three principled remarks regarding the bill itself and one serious remark, something from a specific aspect, from the aspect of members of the national minority communities. Of course, these remarks of principle refer to the very procedure of passing the law itself, simply, what we have already heard very much in the debate, as if one of these were serious, I would say the most serious system law, from the point of view of members of national minorities, brings in a very inappropriate way, in terms of haste, in the sense that there was no democratic procedure in its adoption, in terms of consultation of various professional and other associations. In particular, what I want to underline, from the point of view of the consultation of legitimate representatives of members of minority communities, the national councils that, as we know, have been established in accordance with the law. It's also very important, on no electronic media, that I think overstate electronic media, there was no debate about such an important law. So he's being brought in without any democratic procedure, in terms of consulting different segments of society, which are very interested in this matter. In particular, I would like to stress that only the concept of this law, it seems to me, has not been respected, has not consulted any possible convention, or standard that exists, especially from the position of minority peoples. Not even the UN declaration, we are a member of the UN; no declaration or convention, the OSCE document, and we are also a member of the OSCE; no convention – a charter, which speaks and binds the state, the Council of Europe. So I'm talking about three very important international institutions, where we are members, as a state, and that none of these serious international institutions, or their documents, particularly in the field of education and education in the languages of national minorities, are simply not consulted here. I have to tell the Minister here that, as chairman of the Committee on International Relations, I have received one serious request from all 10 national councils and that I will speak in particular in the debate as a representative of all 10 national councils, which are unique in the request that a serious institute be provided for in your bill, which is a centre for education and education in the languages of national minorities. I'll take the opportunity, when there's a debate in detail, to talk more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3826	The People's MP Vladimir Andric has the word, followed by MP Milan Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3827	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, as DSS counterparts have already made their point of the DSS on this bill, I will only say a few words about these qualifications to distinguished counterpart Anita Beretic. Namely, the National Educational Council is qualified as incompetent, grotesque and dysfunctional. When it comes to incompetence, first of all, the composition of advice is given. Since you all have a bill of law ahead of you, but because of the public who doesn't have a bill in front of them, I'm going to read the composition of the National Educational Council very briefly. He has three members from the class of academics, regular professors from the University of Belgrade, which is proposed by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts; four members from the University of Belgrade teachers, from the list of candidates submitted by the University of Belgrade; one member from the order of teachers of the University of Novi Sad, the University of Nis and the University of Art in Belgrade; member from the teachers of other universities, the Association of Teachers of the Republic; one member from the order of professional associations of teachers; educators and professional associates of Serbia, the Society of Society of Society of Society of Society of History of Serbia, Serbian Geographical Society, Association of Preschool Institutions of Serbian Teachers, Association of Serbian Teachers, Association for Serbian Language, Association for Foreign Language of Serbia, Association of Students of Serbian Society, Serbian Geographical Society, Association of Physical Society, Association of Business Society, Serbian Chemical Society of the Serbian Society, Serbian Philology, Serbian Philology, etc. So much for a composition that's "incomprehensible." If someone felt that there might be an institution missing, it could have been proposed with an amendment and complemented. Another qualification refers to the politicisation of the educational system and education in Serbia with these amendments and additions to the Law on the basis of the education and education systems. I will read only a member relating to the National Educational Council: "A member of the Council cannot be appointed as a person appointed, elected or appointed to office in a state body, a body of territorial autonomy, or a local self-government and a person elected to the authority of a political party or body of governance in institutions." As before, we see from the solutions we had, from which we see that and how the representatives of the state authorities were in professional institutions. For example, one solution is the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Centre for Evaluation in Belgrade, where we have, as another member of the Management Board, assistant minister at the Ministry of Education and Sports. When it comes to a solution to the appointment of members of the Centre for Evaluation's Supervisory Board in Belgrade, it is also the second member of the Supervisory Board to represent the Ministry of Education and Sports. Third solution on the appointment of the Director of the Centre for Professional Development of Education Employees – Belgrade, etc. Decision appointing members of the Management Board at the Centre for Professional Development of Employees in Belgrade, also the first assistant minister at the Ministry of Education and Sports; Decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Centre for Professional Education and Education of Adults in Belgrade, again assistant minister of Education and Sports; Decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Centre for Accreditation, again assistant minister of Education and Sports. We've got that in almost all our solutions. Decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Centre for the Development of Education and Education and Teachers Programme, here we have the Deputy Minister of Education and Sport, etc. I don't want to bother you anymore. So much for that difference and for politicization now and before. When it comes to abandoning the principles of democratisation, decentralisation and depoliticalism with these changes and additions, we can again comment on, above all, the way the National Educational Council is chosen. So, it's chosen by this congregation. It should, by its composition, provide, above all, a professional-pedagogical consensus and, in that part, it represents a democratic composition. Furthermore, when it comes to those changes that relate to the downturn from four to two insufficient grades that can go to the correctional exam, that thing is at one point called a terrible return to the old one, but I just want to remind you briefly what it looked like a year ago and a few days ago. In fact, there was a political consensus on the Council of Serbia's Education Committee, not pedagogical and didactic. Since at one point we tried to convince the Ministry of Education to give up that proposal so that the student could go to correction with all the inadequate units, so, with 12 or 13 underestimating, the Ministry of Education did not give up, then at one point the proposal appeared that with four insufficient grades it could go to the correctional exam and it was accepted, along with some political agreement on the Committee on Education, but it speaks of how far our institutions have turned and to what extent the policy was involved in all of this. So, in this case, we're actually transferring this to be resolved on the National Educational Council, and at some point, for now, this transitional solution means going back to the old one, with two insufficient grades you can go to correctional. Since it's time for the minister, I'll thank you here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3828	Based on what replica? Here, the right to replicate, MP Anita Beretic, to present the MP Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3829	Dear colleagues, I have not denied priori the competence of the list, but I am the applicants for the appointment of the National Educational Council. I don't think of giving up competence, I don't know, maybe on the list of SANU, but I can question the effectiveness of such a body in advance, regardless, and I said that. So, regardless of the degree of any professional value of any applicant of the list. You can't convince me that the National Educational Council, first of all, will be an expression of rationalization, because it's justified instead of three councils, which have been in charge of different areas on a scale. So, rationalisation in this domain doesn't make any sense, and that's demagogy, it's a setup, that the national educational council, which has 38 members, on a proposal from 12 different lists, and each candidate list contains, I don't know, from one to 15 institutions running for a potential election, and that in all of this, if 38 members of the National Educational Council are elected, there will be only one, with a number and a letter, one teacher, that there will be four representatives of secondary vocational schools, and we have a dozen, maybe a hundred, I don't know how many professional profiles are educated in Serbia at the level of secondary vocational education. That's all I'm talking about, simply, the National Educational Council won't be effective, it won't be involved, it won't react, it won't be dynamic as much as pre-school, basic, middle and secondary vocational education would require during the transition period. That's what we probably didn't understand enough about. In doing so, the educational council that is repealed by the proposal of this law has 29 members; the president and members of the Educational Council are appointed from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of pre-school, primary, general secondary and artistic education, as well as areas of science, art, sports, ecology, protection of human rights and standardisation. I think that as a general place, it was quite enough to recommend people to choose to deal professionally with this problem for which the council was proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3830	The word has a minister of education and sports in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ljiljana Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3831	In short, I will look again at some of the remarks made here by our proposed amendments to the law; there was something about classes, let's say the number of classes of Serbian language and mathematics, in general on the schedule of a total fund of school classes, and this law does not determine, because it is regulated by sublaws. So, school plans and programmes will be prescribed, they regulate this issue and therefore this law does not offer that solution because it is not the task of this law. As for the abolition of the centre for persons in need of special social support, I said that under this law the centre is abolished as an institution, but our concern is not lifted. Just because there won't be one institution with that name and last name, and maybe there will be, because the Institute can form other centers, if there's a need, we'll see, so that means that we don't end our concerns. The ministry has in its composition expert teams, trained to deal with this problem, and we will try to strengthen this team in the construction of the systematization and reorganisation of the ministry, which is our next job after this law. I said, maybe we'll hire one or two doctors at the ministry. Therefore, care will prove itself and it will be tangible, if not institutionalised, and that is much more important. With regard to inclusion, i.e. involving children, I mean disabled children, in regular schooling, our schools are not equipped for this. Our schools don't even have that wheelchair access. We can't involve children in this way in regular schools, because our schools are not equipped for this, and there are special institutions where these children are educated, educated, and that's much more important, but that the ministry has institutions in the administrative sense. That's much more important, that's the point of the problem, and we're taking great care of it. Otherwise, the Center for Strategic Development has in its work, you will see it is in the law that has been carefully read, and that it deals with the problems of this most unfortunate of our children's populations. Do we multiply the administration by having both the ministry and the institutions; what does that mean if the Institute doesn't do its job, the ministry takes over, so it doesn't even need to have an office and it's not true. The institutions are needed, only in case they don't do some part of their job for some reason, and the job has to be done, will the ministry take over. As in one hospital you have a specialized department, but if for some reason one department can't perform one intervention, it takes over another, it doesn't matter, and that doesn't mean that not all these segments in hospital work are necessary. So, it'll be the Ministry's intervention. Otherwise, with regard to the institution as such, the education and education institution, such an institution has other educational institutions and other systems in our region, it is not unusual. He said something very nice, I think he's a DS gentleman, which is that we need to reform the conditions in which we live. That's exactly what it's all about, that there's no reform of education to be conducted this intensively and extensively, and that we don't have reformed conditions, so one general environment, especially the economic one, which should present this reform, and that's the classic story, a little demagogue sounds, but it's a base and an upgrade. Unfortunately, the economy is a base, education is an upgrade, which needs to create a second base in perspective, stronger, better and better quality, but we can't do without what's called an economic base, without that cover, we can't go into reform the way it's imagined. Why this walking from religious education to civic education will no longer be possible; because these subjects are normally as advanced as any other and what they learn in the first year is not taught in the second grade. So, you can't have a kid taking a civic education once, and in the next class religiously and walking, because it has to follow this teaching process that's developmental and not in every class the same material by nature of things, and that's why it's impossible. Otherwise, there were different directions, not just from civil to religious, therefore, however it happens, it can't lead to one quality teaching process, and that's what it's about. This is where we talked about the rationalization of the apparatus, why both the seduces and the ministry, and I wouldn't go back to it; and if we were going to multiply some administrative staff -- by any chance. It was about professional teams; by definition, it's not about some new administrative workers, but the expert teams will be formed ad hoc, and it's normal for a person who's hired on a professional team to maybe rest for a few months working relationship where that person is constantly employed. So there's no multiplication of administration and cost increases. As to whether there is a positive opinion on these amendments to the law, there is an expertly positive public opinion on the need for these changes, and in particular there is a professional public negative opinion on what has been done on the basis of a valid one, we hope soon a law that will no longer be in force. The same question has been raised with regard to the directors of pre-school institutions, whether they must be people of narrow expertise or not, if Serbia can handle it humanely or not. According to our professional services to the Ministry, professional coverage in preschool institutions is 100%. So we have a sufficient number of educators, we have a sufficient number of pedagogical qualified people for this job, and moreover, there are currently 60 teachers at the Bureau of Work in Pogorevec. Therefore, it is quite possible to ensure that the managers of these institutions are also qualified to the necessary extent at the level and there is no need to change and expand in such a specific regulation that is designed here. That'll be all. As far as national minorities are concerned, we did not like any member of the applicable National Minorities Act; therefore, we did not endanger them at all and there is no need for anyone to object. We also stressed this to our international partners, the OSCE delegation who spoke to us at the Ministry of Law, and they accepted it with great satisfaction. Indeed nothing has changed, and in no way will the status of national minorities be compromised in relation to what we have so far in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-05-26-0.u3832	We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The first registered speaker is Milan Veselinović.
