ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7817	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs Ksenija Milivojevic and Goran Jaksic are prevented from attending. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PARNIC PROCEDURE (the follow-up in particular) The amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic to Article 279. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 279 provides that in the first position the word "judgment" is replaced by the words "President of the Council". The explanation is very brief, in the name of the court, we want it to be precisely determined that the president is bigger, so that we know exactly who he is who, within the meaning of Article 279, makes solutions for these seven items. We will see whether this law will contribute to the return of trust in the judiciary, which has indeed reached the lowest possible branches in recent years, and I am personally a skeptic of the Ministers, because all of these are the best laws we have, we have a real problem with people who need to enforce these laws. We still have people who are presidents of district and municipal courts, who do not comply with the law of the envisaged norms to perform such a function, and mostly when people complain, and to our MPs, they are mostly objections to judges who are in close contact with lawyers, to the arrogant behaviour of those who do not meet the legal requirements to be presidents of the courts. If anyone doesn't listen, he's under pressure. I have here a statement from a judge, which I am going to give you, and I hope that you ministers will read that statement carefully and you will react, which has been pressured because he did not want to judge by the dictatorship of a lawyer, a group of people who simply want justice not to be quick, slow, or available, but to buy justice, or to have more money to satisfy their needs. So much for this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7819	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7820	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament of 284 are scheduled for the defendant to point out all procedural objections in response to the suit, and that, if he contests the claim, he highlights all the facts on which he bases his allegations and the evidence on which these facts are based. The amendment proposed by DS MPs provides that Article 2 of this Article should be deleted and that it is not an obligation for the defendant to state all the facts on which he bases his allegations and evidence, but only to declare, in response to the complaint, whether or not he contests or acknowledges the claim. This is necessary because the litigation procedure is in the dominant principle of party disposition and it is incomprehensible why the active role of the defendant is so potentified in this law. The role of the defendant in relation to the role of the prosecutor has been greatly increased. Article 300 of this Act provides for the possibility to make all parties known at each stage of the procedure on all grounds or facts and evidence. In support of the adoption of our amendment, it also speaks of the fact that sometimes lawsuits are filed by prosecutors for the sole cause of the defendant. We have cases like that. I remember the example when I was still a beginner, an intern, when one party came and asked me to press charges and I advised her not to do so because she was going to lose the dispute, but she insisted. To my question -- why is she doing it, she answered -- I want to scare the neighbor a little bit. Well, I don't see the reasons why the defendant would always have to give one detailed answer to the suit, but it's enough to just challenge the claim and then see how the proceedings are going, in which direction the evidence goes from the prosecution's side, and then after that he proposes his evidence and makes some allegations. For example. We don't know how the witnesses proposed by the prosecutor will be made known. So the defendant is able to wait, in fact he needs to be able to wait and see the evidence run, the prosecutor pleads, and then the defendant pleads. This will, in any case, contribute to the acceleration of the proceedings, but it is not an expedient goal to potential this active role of the defendant, but that it is enough to declare whether or not he is contesting or acknowledging the claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7821	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7822	This may be the third point that reflects the problem of this bill. Of course, I won't talk, and I won't use the reasons my predecessor used, because it motivated him to submit the amendment, but I would point out that if something is already prescribed by some law, then it needs to be rewritten to the end, in full text, that it would make some sense. The professors who did this bill overwrited it from Article 71 of that law that they used, and that article 71 is complete, moving in the form of that system that promotes that foreign law, and here we have a mix that practically does not show the legal nature of the response to the lawsuit. Why am I saying that this is the third point of resistance that you have to say something about? I'm talking about an amendment to Article 285 and an imminent relationship that exists with Article 338. You're here giving a submission that's called a response to the lawsuit mandatory force, that it's a mandatory submission. If he's not there, the defendant takes an almost absolute risk of ending the case for his harm just because he didn't answer his complaint. This is contrary to some of the basic principles on which this bill is based. A passive defense of the defendant cannot be a legal reason for a verdict that he will be convicted of, or judgment will be brought upon. So the legal nature of the response to the lawsuit is so strictly placed. And because you've strictly set it up, you've listed all the demands that have to meet the answer to the suit. A formal-legal response to the suit should meet some other requirements, but what is stated should be in the law as an instruction, as a recommendation, as something that should contain a response to the complaint, in order to speed up the procedure in terms of the preparatory hearing and the hearing for the main debate. You put it here as a legal condition, because then it appreciates the judge whether the answer to the suit is orderly, messy, complete, incomplete and practical passivity of a party that doesn't even have the obligation to prove it. Why would the defendant prove anything? Why would he prove his innocence? I guess the D.A. proves the basis and existence of the fact and gives evidence that his claim was established. Will the defendant defend his interests? How's he gonna defend them? That's his disposition. I appreciate that in the phase of the preparation of the debate, and in the phase of the preparatory actions to the preparatory hearing, as much as possible clears things of a procedural nature, providing evidence, indicating what facts should be proved, etc. I appreciate it and it's in the function of speeding up and efficiency of a court case, but you've exceeded that line. This is where you made it impossible for the defendant to defend himself. The defendant can be defended by silence, because the prosecutor needs to prove that his plea was established. This is where the defendant takes the risk if he doesn't deliver an answer to the suit, and you'll see when we get to Article 338. He lost his case. So if you've been cheating, then you should have prescribed a member of the 71st law from abroad, including a member of 182nd and this second one, because that law has some logic, and what the professors did to you is just a mix that doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7823	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7824	Gentlemen, this article shows what confusion of legal principles exists in this law on litigation. First of all, what Mr Krasic was talking about, the burden of proof. The burden of proof cannot be on the defendant. This puts a burden of proof on the defendant, with him having the most terrible effect, losing his case if he doesn't file evidence and not giving an answer to the lawsuit. It's one thing that absolutely does not comply with our legal, not to say legal culture and legal habits at all. The other thing is very important. The defendants here now have to state the evidence he's pairing with, in fact, alleging lawsuits. How does he know what kind of witness he's going to testify so he can call his witnesses? What he knows is what the process will be, so he needs his evidence to present. In addition, this introduces the principle, that principle of material truth, and you need to state all the evidence that is relevant, etc. So, mixing all kinds of principles. It is only now that the principle of orality, one of the essential principles, is completely disrupted. This principle in our legal culture exists absolutely, until now, and these are our legal and cultural habits. There's no principle of orality anymore. You're not going to speak in court, you're going to write a submission stating all the evidence if you don't lose your case. A disaster, especially in a society where there are still 15 to 20 percent illiterate. We take care of these things. Let us not take foreign role models and foreign suggestions as a basis for the adoption of our laws. It's very dangerous, and especially when our cultural habits, our customs get mixed up with some of the suggestions that we get from the outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7825	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7826	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that a proposal from the Democratic Party's Parliament Club has been established to make a change in this article that really creates an inappropriate commitment for the defendant, and puts the defendant as a party in an unfavourable position compared to the prosecutor. Imagine some litigation or some kind of dispute that is very complicated and where the involvement of the experts of different professions is needed. You have a citizen who comes in the position of a prosecutor who has the opportunity to prepare for the dispute for a year, to collect facts, collect extensive written material, obtain experts' opinions and then sue, file a complaint, and the defendant who did not even know that in some disputed relationship with the prosecutor has an obligation to examine this extensive material within 30 days in response to the suit, analyse, to submit an answer, arguedly dispute the facts and to refuse that legal attack that may have caused nothing. In this way, we will essentially force the abuse of procedural powers, precisely in the case of the most complex disputes with the greatest value of the dispute. I believe that this is an unnecessary and non-discriminatory burden on the defendant, so that some right, or efficiency in the process, will be confronted with the principle of equality of parties in the process, and of course with some other principles where the prosecutor is obliged to prove the facts and basics of his allegations. In a way, the obligation to prove it in the defendant, simply pointing out the facts or unargumented allegations of the prosecutor that he made in the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7827	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7828	I have to give a little explanation, I won't be long, because there's no need for that. It is not true that the parties are unequal. Look at the lawsuit and what the D.A. has to do to make his lawsuit neat. If it does not contain facts and evidence or has other shortcomings, it is rejected. So he's suffering the consequences, too. There won't be a verdict for missing out, unless there are any of these priors. Therefore, there would be no adverse consequences. Simply, both parties are placed in a position, Mr. Vuckovic, just to change the legal perception and habit that the case should last 20 years. You don't have to. This attitude of yours could take years. Here both parties have these obligations and must bear certain consequences. If this one doesn't provide evidence and facts, he'll be dropped the lawsuit and vice versa, if he doesn't, and this lawsuit has everything he needs, he'll suffer. Secondly, he was not denied the right to debate. He's been given the right, and whether or not he will, that's his business.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7829	National MP Slobodan Vukkovic, replica. Just one explanation. Since there were problems about it yesterday, everything in the O.R. also applies to representatives of the executive government, only when it comes to timely reporting for the word. So it wouldn't happen, as I was resented yesterday for working on the Rules of Procedure, and in previous councils, it wasn't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7830	I must say, the minister misunderstood me. I've never been anywhere, and least of all for this pay phone, I said I wanted the lawsuits to last 20 years, but that the defendant couldn't sneak up and force him to answer the charges and that there had to be a burden of evidence on the prosecutor without the defendant having to have any burden of proof. These are customs, cultural habits stemmed from legal order, which we inherited and followed. It was always a habit and it was the rules of our civil rights. We can suddenly trade it for the love of some structures that don't lead to anything, which leads to the greater obligation of the defendant who can, in fact, be quite irresponsible and innocent in this relationship. It's totally unacceptable. Besides, the party's disposition here is completely disrupted. I can answer the lawsuit, I don't have to answer the lawsuit, that's how it was before the law, that's how it's under German law today, by Austrian, it's French law. How do we suddenly jump out of the European context? There's no defendant's obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7831	Mr. Jojic, are you answering for the amendment? I'm sorry, we're done here. I warned you we wouldn't let you go back. This was a replica to the minister's presentation. I thank you for your understanding. Member of the 285th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Dragan Colic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7832	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on litigation procedure, which requires that Article 285 be deleted, for reasons why, if it is failed to respond to the complaint by some of the mandatory elements, it cannot be considered that the defendant did not deliver an answer to the complaint, which is contrary directly to Article 286(2). I quote: "If the defendant has not delivered a reply to the complaint, and there are no conditions for a verdict for failure, the court will schedule and hold a hearing within 30 days at the latest, when the defendant delivers an answer to the complaint." In the preparatory hearing, the lack of response is removed, and the litigator can act. If the proposed Article 285 were to remain, a problem in practice would arise because the court does not know which member to act on — Article 285 or Article 286(2). I note Article 287. – the preparatory hearing is mandatory for both the court and the parties. The law on litigation should be one of the preconditions for effective work in the judicial sphere, but I am not that opinion and belief that this bill will fix anything in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7833	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7834	Minister, I would recommend that you rephrase Article 284 and, in 285 which is covered by this amendment, delete it from the law, because bear in mind that these professors of yours who rewritten that foreign law were misrecorded by a member of the 71st Law and did not understand Article 182 of that law from which they prescribed. I warn everyone that this is a very important thing, because these amendments are in direct contact with a brand-new institute that is being introduced to us, and that is the verdict due to the failure of Article 338. I'll remind you that if you're already talking about a mistrial institute, then it's said to be a situation where the defendant who has been sued neatly, in which the prosecutor has proposed a verdict for failure, so there is no response to the lawsuit, etc. There is a possibility in that foreign law, but you in Article 338, and Article 285 is directly related to Article 338. There's something completely different about us in Article 338. The teachers confused the grandmothers and frogs when they prescribed, and when they were wrong and they couldn't understand what they had done, then imagine what the judges of a municipal court would do, which has a dozen judges in a small municipality in the Republic of Serbia. When he sees this law, if he votes like this, he won't know what to do. You have thrown out the verdict for the absence, you have introduced a new institute – a verdict for the failure, which is unscheduled. In article 338, you inserted two kinds of convictions for failure and there was general confusion. Professors, those institutes and these NGOs planted this on you. When you carry out an analysis of all these members, take four ordinary judges of first degree courts, municipal courts, let them give you an opinion on these members and define this: Article 285, 284, 338. and ask – colleague, how do you plan to apply these three members. They'll say, "We can't apply this." If you were to ask the judges of the Constitutional Court, including this Constitutional Court, they would probably say that this is not in line with certain elements. So I suggest you rewrite this before the day of the vote comes, look, because here's where logic is lost. It doesn't matter how it's prescribed. If something is overwritten in one system, it has some logic. If something is prescribed and a completely different system is created, then there's confusion, confusion, so you're not going to reduce the number of cases in court, you're just going to increase the number of bad cases in court. In that country, against the verdicts of a failure, it's allowed to vomit in the past, and you don't even have that here. The copying officer did not understand the institutes and made a mistake that the courts cannot interpret, because they see the wrong will of the legislator. The will of the legislator in these members does not exist, it is confusing. As the lawsuit returns because it is not complete, I would return this law as incomplete.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7835	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for article 285 is absolutely unacceptable for a number of reasons. Our case-law and the applicable law on litigation is extremely good, therefore, it norms the provisions relating to the answers to the lawsuits. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is enough that the defendant pointed out, firstly, that he contests the facts of the lawsuit and contests the appeal's claim in full and suggests that the prosecutor, with the appeal's request, be rejected as unfounded, and the story is finished. How does the defendant now know what new evidence the prosecutor offered in the lawsuit will keep in a small pocket and which he will later offer. The defendant couldn't answer that evidence because he didn't have the facts the prosecutor has. Here in the front row is a violation of the Constitution. In the second order, the principle of establishing material truth, then the principle of orality, the principle of research, the principle of integrity and economics. We will have in practice, if this member is accepted, such a situation that the judge will look forward to the appeal and if he does not like something in that lawsuit, if he considers that there is one formal flaw, he will be deemed not to have responded to the suit. Then what's next? It's a verdict. So, not to give parties the opportunity to debate in court, that's unconstitutional. The constitution guarantees citizens to debate before the court and that they have the right to protect their rights and their interests. I say, there are numerous cases in practice and the following, then the question and qualifications and expertise of the courts, or judges who acted in the first degree. Maybe he sees something upside down, maybe one piece of evidence is relevant to him, and the county judge will say, please, it's important to decide, it's a decisive fact. I think this is really unacceptable, and I propose that this amendment be accepted on behalf of the Government, because it will in practice prove ineffective for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who generally come to court to exercise their rights and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7837	According to the amendment, the People's MP, Bosko Ristic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7838	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, this proposed amendment is quite meaningful and it corresponds with all that we have spoken about in relation to Article 284 as a previous member. Therefore, that this is a completely unusable member of the law, a non-usable provision, also tells the fact that an answer to the complaint will be rejected if there are shortcomings in Article 284 or that it will be considered that no answer to the complaint has been filed at all. Article 284 says the defendant is obliged to state what facts he contests and to submit evidence to prove it. I'll show you the senselessness of this member. When someone sues you that he gave you money on loan, and you say you didn't give me money on loan, the law obliges you to give evidence that you didn't receive money, and the negative facts don't prove themselves right. That says it doesn't make sense, that the stupid regulations of the law and that they're inapplicable. So when someone says, I gave you money, you have to think of something that's against the law, to make up witnesses who saw that someone didn't give you money. That's what this law makes you do. Imagine what this will mean in real life? Obviously, these people who wrote this did not have real situations or used their relationships and positions to solve their problems differently. When the defendant objects to obsolescence, then they ask you for evidence, facts, and not that it proves I'm the prosecutor who's in the lawsuit, claims he has some right since a certain date. The court is required to resolve and to act on official duty following a complaint of obsolescence. He's obliged to consider the objection when he does the verdict. The accused under the law is not obliged to submit facts of limitations, because it is the legal deadlines that the court is required to apply. When a court objectes to a lack of active or passive legitimacy, it says, someone died abroad, and the prosecutor says, on behalf of that and that, I seek such a right, and the defendant says, the defendant, who died, is not possible, has heirs, and instead of the burden of proof lying on the prosecutor, now the defendant must go abroad to America, Australia and prove that a person died or that he has no litigation or that he is incompetent. So, he needs to lead that face that he says, according to him, hostileally and lead him to a doctor to determine that it's incompetent, with a psychiatrist, and if that's possible. If he does not do so and does not act on the medical belief that a person is incompetent or unable to judge, then he loses the right to respond to the suit or if that evidence does not respond to the suit, then the suit will be dismissed, or the answer, as unlawful. It speaks of the senselessness of these provisions. Of course, the provision of the next member is pointless, but I will speak when that amendment comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7839	Is there anyone else who'd like to pick up the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. According to this amendment, Mr Pajovic wants, and before you come, a brief clarification requested by the minister over these two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7840	As for my previous discussion of my colleague Ristic, I'm really not going to make a statement about what he was saying, I think you can hardly fit in and connect to these laws. I have to be correct about my relationship with the members of the task force. It's not the kind of people who end their jobs through relationships and find relationships, so they don't know the right or the facts. I'll say, the president of the working group is a judge who has over 30 years of internship, litigator, one of the best, the other also, he is 35 years old, that's Snowyka Andrejevic, there's Vida Petrovic-Skero, Professor. The Faculty of Law in Nis, Mrs Stankovic, and counterpart Ristic knows which of his colleagues was in the task force. I don't believe that's what you're saying that over a relationship was the end of the matter. On the contrary, it was very experienced people who did this job, and I'm sure they know it when they've been working for over 30 years, except that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7841	Thank you for the clarification. National MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not about the intricacies of the group, it's about the concept of the law. The amendment submitted by DS members to Article 285 is directly related to the amendment that we have submitted to Article 284 earlier, and it consists of our concept being such that it is sufficient for the defendant in response to the complaint to say only one sentence - I challenge the claim. His reply does not have to contain any indication of why he contests the claim, the facts on which it is based, or the evidence confirming such facts. Therefore, the defendant was left with the possibility to provide evidence later in the proceedings, when he saw the evidence presented by the prosecutor flow. However, in the event that there is a mandatory response to the suit, we have advocated it and we believe that the defendant can come to the hearing and say directly - contests the claim. As a matter of fact, an obligation has been imposed on the defendant on a mandatory written response to the suit and mandatory tax. It shall be exposed to previous costs and if it is saddened, which is not common and does not comply with the principles of the procedure. We have proposed an amendment where it is allowed, if it cannot be interpreted clearly as to what the defendant has stated in response to the suit, that the case is considered to be disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7843	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MP Slobodan Vučković, then MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7844	It is a great honor for this task force, quoted earlier by the minister, but it is now in front of the fact that this law is so resolved by the amendments in this Assembly, and as it will pass in public, we will see. I want to say more about this amendment, which was explained by counterpart Pajovic. You can't ask the defendant to make a detailed statement. We're against making a statement at all, that's what we were just saying about the previous amendment. Here, if the defendant answered anything, well that's not clear, and it's going to be in many cases, because we have 15-20% of the illiterate world, and functionally illiterate maybe 40%. It won't be clear what he's been invited to, and he's believed to have disputed his claim. It's how much we save this situation that's created with this copying and inserting foreign elements into our legal system. He's got to be considered. Otherwise, we have a criminal procedure that doesn't require a man to defend himself, he can defend himself by silence. Here in the civil proceedings, where the party's disposition government has to answer the question and answer the call not of the state, but of the private prosecutor. These are incomprehensible things. If you keep it, and if we want to keep it, and we don't want it, then it's considered to be whoever answered the complaint, so if that's not clear, it's considered to have challenged the claim and to have an appointment of a preparatory hearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7845	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? First Mr. Jojic, then Mr. Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective of reforming the judiciary should be in the first order of achieving the Constitution of guaranteed rights of our citizens. If the aim of the promoter was to achieve efficiency in the conduct of litigation, there are other methods and other options and ways to do so. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why didn't the possibility of this matter being debated when the prosecutor filed a lawsuit before the court in charge? Why is it not possible for the defendant to give an answer, and to challenge the appeal, possibly to point out objections, or to judge matters, or to object to obsolescence, or to object to beatings, or to object to meat and actual incompetence? Why is it not possible for the prosecutor, when the defendant contests the suit and the claim and presents certain facts, to receive a reply to the complaint and to declare at the first hearing whether it is all disputed, or something in the claim and in the case and in the facts and evidence is not disputed. I say again, it makes it impossible for citizens to argue in court. All in order to speed up the litigation process. I don't think this way will speed up the process. I said a moment ago -- you'll have a number of cases where the judge can't wait to solve the case and hit the line that he's finished the case, in such a constitutionally unauthorized way, that he himself appreciates without further discussion, without proof, contrary to the principle of establishing material truth and contrary to the principle of oral debate before the court and carrying out evidence. I understand the motionor's intention, but the motionor had the opportunity to predict in this law and the possibility to hold a time period to resolve the litigation process, i.e. the litigation. There's limited time in Germany to solve a lawsuit. In Germany, the lawsuit ends in five months, and we have an average of six years and five months. Under the proposal of this law, given that disastrous member 176. The draft law opens the possibility that litigation will take another six years, as the case is referred to from the municipal court, past the district court, to the Supreme Court. Therefore, the Supreme Court newsletter will be the law, and ladies and gentlemen, we MPs here can sit here for days, for years, to pass laws, and these laws will not be applied by the Supreme Court, because the laws will replace the newsletters of the Supreme Court. I have no intention of underestimating the will and will of the proposings to impose order, and to carry out the reform in the judiciary until the end. That's what you've been talking about for four years. I said Serbia has seven times as many judges as England does. England has 1,630 judges, and Serbia has 3,000. It's not a problem with the laws, the problem is not working in our courts. Ladies and gentlemen, let's bring a new constitution and re-choose all the judges, and share in court the justice of the people professional and experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, England is becoming a judge in the 1950s, at the Lord's Upper House in the 1960s, and we have a situation that people have come to us in courts that are not professional and have not gained that privilege, which judges have. The world's most recognized privileges. Therefore, it is fundamental, judicial reform, and in a subjective sense, not in a legislative and material sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7847	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin. Here you go. I hope you won't be pushing for the law to get the judges to kill the lines.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7848	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, considering the issue of amendments to part of the law relating to the response to the suit, I cannot go back to part of the law relating to the power of attorneys. If in the part of the law relating to the power of attorneys we allow the party's power to be someone who is only a business capable, and in response to the suit we attach such a fact, to a verdict that ends the case, if that answer does not satisfy the formal conditions, then the question is whether these two norms are consistent. So, if the answer to the complaint has to contain all procedural objections, can anyone who isn't educated put a procedural objection at all, I don't think he can. The impression is that this law was done by a task force, with the law being done by pieces, so whoever was doing the first part doesn't know what the second part thinks, so in order. So the law doesn't have internal consistency and it has to suffer more significant changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7849	Thank you. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The minister wants a word, then Bosko Ristic, as one of the proposings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7850	This was about a little bit of a stroke that gives the possibility of different interpretations. I think this amendment is fine, and it should stand – 'it's 'it's time for a lawsuit', because it's about 30 days. I think this amendment is in order and the government accepts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7851	In that case, I ask the Justice and Administration Committee to meet and determine to become an integral part of the law. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure and you're speaking to the Rules of Procedure. It is a technical note from the president of the assembly, not a minister, that the amendment accepted would not be further stated by MPs, as it has already been accepted and only a reference to the technical correction. If there is a constant tendency to refuse amendments, we can work on that. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted the amendment to Article 296. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic to Article 296. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic submitted the amendment together. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vuković, Slobodan Pajović, Miodrag Djidić, Milan Markovic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7853	Thank you. In order for some amendment to become an integral part of the bill, it is necessary to adopt it by the Committee on Justice and to be accepted by the Proposer. It is a way of becoming an integral part of the bill and we disagree on this as a result of a recent discussion. As for the amendment to Article 320, it reads as follows: "If a public prosecutor or a public defender, or a person who replaces them, violates order, the court will inform the competent public prosecutor or the public defender. The court may also request the competent public prosecutor and the public defender to appoint another person to participate in the proceedings. ''We believe that such a solution has violated the equality of parties before the court, because if any other party behaves in the same way, it is immediately subject to sanctions. If we believe that the parties should be equal before the court, even if we believe that the judicial authority should be equally respected by representatives of other authorities, as the citizens will respect, then this member should be deleted. We therefore advocate that Article 320 be deleted and that all parties to the proceedings before the court have the same position, both in respect of their rights and in respect of their obligations, respect the court and sanctions that follow in case they do not respect the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7854	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's an explanation from the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7855	counterpart Markovic said the parties should be equal, Article 319 clearly says it refers to everything, all the harmful consequences, and this only strengthens the responsibility of the state-level authorities. Only in terms of strengthening their responsibilities, compared to 319, which applies to all parties, including them. They were not put in a better position, on the contrary, in a more difficult position.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7856	The amendment was submitted to Article 320 by MP Vladimir Homan. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7857	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, the amendment to Article 320 differs from my previous amendment in that I am not asking to delete this member, but I cannot accept the explanation that Article 319 will also regulate that the public prosecutor and the public defender will be sanctioned if they violate order in the courtroom, because it would mean that representatives of a state body, such as public prosecutors and public defenders, can also be fined, as it says in Article 319, 30,000 dinars. I believe that this member should indeed remain, but that the state authorities, i.e. the representatives of the state authorities, should not be fined, cannot fit in, but in order to insert in this Article 320 that if the public prosecutor or public defender, or the person replacing them, violates order, the court will warn him, if the warning is unsuccessful, the person warned may be removed from the courtroom, and the court will inform the Advocate or Prosecutor. Lawyers and all those involved in litigation and criminal proceedings are fed up with the inequalities that public prosecutors in courts have in relation to lawyers, where they make decisions, increase and vote together with judges, sit in courtrooms with judges, while lawyers with defendants are waiting outside, so that at least on paper they need to strengthen this responsibility. I don't think a judge will ever throw out a public prosecutor, his deputy, a public defender, or his deputy from the courtroom, but at least he can stand it in law, at least stand on this paper, even if all the parties on the paper are in the same procedure. It's enough for the D.A. to be in the same building as the court. At least let it be in the same position as the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7858	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 336th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Bosko Ristic, Slobodan Vukovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić and Milan Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Slobodan Pajovic. Excuse me, I don't understand what the pitch is. It's about amendment 336. Before that, there was an amendment to Article 320. (Glass: what about 327? Just a moment to check, I don't have it here. So I informed at the beginning of the session that at the meeting of the Committee, MP Dr Zarko Obradovic withdrew the amendment to Article 327. It's a bill of law. Since the amendment was withdrawn, of course we're not discussing it. Here you go, Mr. Spider.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7859	By amendment to Article 336, we propose to delete the final position of 4 which regulates the question of the verdict on the basis of recognition, where it reads: 'Recognition of the plea at the hearing or in writing the defendant may, without the prosecutor's consent, call off until the verdict is reached. ''We believe that there should not be this possibility for the defendant, because one legal uncertainty is created to recognise the claim, and immediately thereafter to submit a submission to which he does not recognise or deny such recognition, or recalls recognition. In the event that a confession is given under duress, error and fraud, there are legal mechanisms to overcome it and therefore we feel it is necessary to delete this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7860	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7861	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if the law seeks to achieve as effective as possible in the conduct of the litigation procedure, then it is not necessary to leave the defendant, who recognises the claim, that the court does not decide and that it may delay the verdict. Any person who acknowledges the claim may change his mind until the time of the signing of the minutes, the hearing minutes held at that hearing before the court. Therefore, if someone acknowledges the claim until the time of the hearing, by signing the minutes, there is a statement and confirms, which is enough time for someone to consider the procedure, i.e. the legal consequences of their recognition statement. I therefore believe that this is contrary to the principle of efficiency of the procedure, to create legal uncertainty among parties and that it would be good to delete this member of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7862	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is room to think about this amendment, but in this direction, what should be taken into account is the fact that the existing law provided for the possibility and that even in the existing law, the interests of citizens are more protected than if this amendment were adopted. Why? You know what happens in practice? In practice, it happens that a citizen, as a defendant, comes to a hearing without a power of attorney, an ignorant party, he gets a lawsuit and a lawsuit, the judge asks him, convinces him, is this true, do you admit this in a lawsuit, which says, whether he admits the lawsuit. The man, in that first impression and the first encounter with the court, especially if the judge has a little influence to hit the line and solve the case, he says - do you admit the lawsuit, he says - I admit it. However, when he consults with the power of attorney later, or some expert, a lawyer, and is told - the law that the prosecutor pointed out regarding the claim is unfounded, it would therefore be risky to exclude only because of ignorant parties, it should already be possible for the ignorant parties to consult afterwards and leave them with the possibility to point out in the complaint or in the complaint their position, because this solution is also in the existing law, and I think that this solution is still acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7864	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Krasic, but it's the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7865	This amendment should still be accepted. I do not agree with the argument made by my distinguished predecessor because it is impossible under these provisions of the ZPP for the party to come to court confused. First because he had to answer the complaint, and we talked about it a little while ago. So he can't just show up in court for the first time and say, uh, what am I gonna do now? Come on, I'll admit to the lawsuit. There's no danger here. But the dangers of this institute being abused certainly are. It's just hard to believe in the practice of really being someone so irresponsible, that he shows up in court, and that he's not sure whether he admits or doesn't admit the claim, so for a moment he admits, he just gives up his confession. I think that this amendment should, however, be accepted in light of these previous solutions which undertake to be made in writing first, i.e. that it must give a written reply to the complaint and therefore I think that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7866	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7867	It is good that the authors of the working text of this bill have adopted what exists as a standard in our law, which they have finally accepted right, well, here I praise, sometimes I must commend, because this would be dangerous if it were adopted. This would be a disaster if it were adopted. We are within the scope of Article 336 and still at the stage of the main debate when the verdict is not reached. Until that moment, the party shall freely make its requests and make statements freely. But those statements, which he makes on the record or in writing, are his party statements, which the court particularly appreciates. On the basis of a confession, or a denunciation judgment, it is quite similar, you have submitted the same amendment, practically to both members, and I will include it in the debate, since it is the same matter, it must contain this attitude that gives the procedural party the right to call off its statement. But it's perfectly appropriate here to limit the moment until the court has reached its verdict. The fact that someone gives a statement and then withdraws it, the court particularly appreciates it when it comes to that general verdict, when it comes to, let's say, this reduced version of the verdict. This must remain because these statements are still in connection with the case when the parties freely dispose of their requests. They can make a statement. If they subsequently find that they have done something wrong, they can immediately change that statement, but only on condition that the court has not already reached a first-degree verdict. It's good and it needs to stay and it exists in all the laws. In all the laws that regulate litigation there is such a thing, and this has nothing to do with it, nor is it conditioned whether the party is represented by a lawyer or the party itself appears in the process. This is their original right, guaranteed by the basic provisions of this law. So I think that this amendment and the next ones that are going to explain should not be accepted, because they question one of the basic institutes that the parties themselves have their own demands, that they take their own procedural actions, that they bear responsibility for what they do. The court will particularly appreciate this taking-off, both on the side of the defendant and on the prosecutor's side. Don't let the law go any further than we can go. In principle, we must preserve the debate in all terms. We must, in all provisions, give the party the opportunity to make its demands, to propose, to withdraw its proposals, to give up, to recall. If we deny them this here, then it means we don't even allow the party to be mistaken. This is not affected by the provisions that regulate the right to appeal, where there is a possibility, if there is any delusion. If you think you're defending this amendment by making a possible complaint about some delusion, you've missed the subject again. We are at the stage of the proceedings when it is said that parties can freely dispose of their demands because there is no court ruling.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7868	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7869	It's illogical to have this defense law and the rights of the defendant or later the prosecutor, which will come in the next amendment, because, on the one hand, we have such a strict procedure where we impose what we've been saying on the defendant's case, so if it's not neat and if it doesn't contain everything we need, we're making a verdict for missing out. On the other hand, when, in the case, he has made it clear that one time or a plea is admitted by the applicant, then we say he can call it off. They can never call off because they already have a strict criterion for the markings and criteria of this law. When he doesn't give an answer to a lawsuit or it's an incomplete answer to a lawsuit, he gets a verdict for missing out. The man here has made it clear that he recognizes the claim, and now we give him the right to withdraw it in the course of the proceedings until the verdict is reached. These things are inconclusive, given that the principle of party disposition, and if you want to do so quickly, the procedure that this law wants to introduce. It doesn't make any sense or justification.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7870	The word is by MP Slobodan Pajovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7871	I would only cite for Mr Krasic, the verdict based on recognition and acquittal may be refuted because of a significant violation of the provisions of the litigation procedure or because the statement of recognition, i.e. the denunciation given in error or under the influence of coercion or fraud. So I can fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7872	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 337th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Bosko Ristic, Slbodan Vuckovic, Slobodan Pajovic, Miodrag Djidić and Milan Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister is not present to hear the explanation for the proposed amendment. I believe these are provisions that allow parties to be entitled to classical abuse of procedural powers. I like to use examples, since I've been in practice for a long time. Article 337 of Article 5 states: "Acquittal of the appeal at the hearing or in writing by the prosecutor may, without the consent of the defendant, call for a verdict." Both parties can say that they waive the claim or recognise the claim, and then the law gives them the right to change that decision before making a ruling and to make their views known. This means that the prosecutor can sue a particular person, challenge the claim, present evidence and facts and at the hearing for the main debate says he recognises the claim. At that moment, the hearing shall be suspended, the minutes shall be drawn up and the court shall withdraw that, within a specified time limit, prescribed by law, and without certain legal consequences, a verdict shall be reached. Before the verdict is passed, which means that a 15 - to 20 - day term is over again, the defendant may say that he withdraws his confession, and he does not even have to explain why. All he can say is he's withdrawing a confession statement. The court then schedules the hearing again, and then at the next hearing, the prosecutor can say he's giving up his suit. He doesn't need the defendant's consent for that. The court rescinds the procedure, forms a record at the hearing, withdraws from the verdict, waits again for a ruling from 15 to 20 days, and the prosecutor can say before the verdict is made, means before it is made, that he withdraws his decision to waive the appeal's motion and asks for a hearing to be held. In this way it is possible to appeal and abuse procedural powers indefinitely. In the past, the parties are fictitiously conducting procedures which are the reason for the suspension of the executive procedure. You will see when we discuss the executive procedure, the third party's complaint or the third party's lawsuit to declare the execution inadmissible. This way, it can go on forever. The court will stop the execution, and the parties will falsify the proceedings and withdraw the case for two, three, five years until the right to execute has become obsolete, and it is laid down by law and restricted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7874	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to Article 338. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7875	I have submitted an amendment to Article 338, which has introduced a new institute for failure. I will read only the first position of this article, which reads: "If the defendant does not submit a reply to the action within a specified time limit, the court shall take a ruling that adopts the claim if the following conditions are met: 1) if the defendant has been duly served with a lesson on the consequences of the failure; 2) if the facts on which the claim is based are not contrary to the evidence that the prosecutor himself has filed or the facts which are generally known; 3) if the basis of the claim stems from the facts referred to in the complaint; 4) if there are no known circumstances resulting from which the defendant has prevented the justified reasons to answer the complaint". First, I'll look back at the answer to the lawsuit. I don't think the answer to the suit can and can't be binding. Under this law he is binding and I think it is contrary to article 84 of this law. In fact, a member of the 84th Law says that a party that is fully commercially capable can take action on its own. What if the party is uneducated enough or poor enough so she can't pay a lawyer, or she can't write her own answer to the suit. The party, or the defendant in this case, wants to defend himself by mouth at the hearing and wants to wait for the hearing. Why force him to write an answer to a lawsuit or pay a lawyer if he can't. This institute of mistrials, which is new, is excessive and I have requested the amendment to be deleted, because in that case, unless the defendant delivers within a certain time limit, which is 30 days, the answer to the complaint, the court is ruling. So, the trial is closed, the court is making a verdict, because the defendant did not deliver an answer to the lawsuit within that time limit. This calls into question the defendant's right to defend himself. He has that right, and he can't be denied. He wants to defend himself, personally, without a lawyer, which the law allows. He wants to do it at the hearing, orally. Also, this article is closely tied to Article 285, which was referred to, where the possibility of a response to a complaint is being dropped in certain cases. Even if the defendant, as a party to the proceedings, makes and provides the court with a reply to the action, that reply may be rejected for purely technical reasons referred to in Article 100. In that case, we have the same situation again. Although a man tried to deliver an answer to the suit, he was left without it, that verdict is again made for failure. I think that this article violates these fundamental rights, the rights of each individual to his own defence, the right for each individual to come before the court for a scheduled hearing and verbally explain the arguments for his own benefit, orally defend himself and that his right should not be denied. That's why I suggest that article 338 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7876	People's Messenger Petar Jojic, then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a new institute proposed in this bill. This is something that breaks harmony and unity in material law, from the point of view of litigation. The promoter introduces new solutions that are not known in our caselaw. What's going to happen in practice? I say again, let's go to the judge's hands, so that the judge can easily decide whether he will continue to conduct the proceedings or will end the proceedings by making a verdict for his failure. Article 338 paragraph 2. 4. states: "If there are no generally known circumstances... "which are generally known circumstances, "... from which it follows that the defendant was prevented by the justified reasons for answering the complaint." How does a judge know that in advance? Confusion is introduced, harmony is broken, and the unity of this law is violated. There is an introduction that opens up a number of possibilities that we will have a repeat procedure, that citizens will press charges again, that they will again pay taxes, that they will be found before the court, and that they will allow judges to beat their lines lightly, to make judgments based on their absence, based on recognition, based on failure. This makes it impossible for citizens to debate in front of the court a fundamental issue. The basic principle of orality, the determination of material truth and the principle of unity in the litigation process. This breaks the entire legal system so far, from the aspect of our civil rights. It's not clear to me that the motionary has dared to propose this. Secondly, I'm going to tell you that some of them, who took part in the Intercontinental consultation when the draft of this law was made and when they saw the intention of some of the NGOs, and this proposal was not written by the experts of our civil rights. They are against this law: the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia; the Association of Lawyers, above all, Belgrade; professors of Law Faculty, who did not take part, neither from Kragujevac nor from Novi Sad, nor from Belgrade, respected, such as Veroljub Rajovic, before whom many of us passed exams from this area; Besarić Jovan, with a group of prominent lawyers from Belgrade; a number of professors; a large number of judges of Supreme and District Courts, to whom this text of the bill was never delivered at all, but in some first previous version. One of the participants, who took part in the consultation, said "this, gentlemen, is an exotic bill to you".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7878	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7879	Too bad there's no minister, but this is a really important topic. If, in the previous two members, we had judgments based on recognition and the grounds of denial, which were based on a statement by the parties participating in a procedure, in this third institute, so-called. Special judgment, it's not the general verdict, it's a misdemeanor verdict based on the entire presumption system. The problem of legal assumptions is based on that, if your starting point is wrong, then the whole presumption system can lead to a minus or plus, as something that is quite certain to exist. It must not exist in the law. In order to point out how wrong these copying experts are, I will read what that member of the law of that foreign country reads. He says – the verdict for missing: "When the defendants, who has been served neatly with a lawsuit in which the prosecutor has proposed a verdict for missing... "which means that the prosecutor in the lawsuit suggested that such a verdict be made, "... does not provide a written reply to the action within the legal time limit, the court will deliver a ruling adopting the claim unless the claim is clearly unfounded.' ''The claim is obviously unfounded', so the reasons are stated and it is said: 'the misdemeanor ruling will not be made on requests and parts of requests which the parties cannot have.' The following article: "No appeal is allowed against a mistrial, but the defendant may submit a proposal for a return to the former state, in accordance with the provisions of this law." I did not purposely state the reasons and conditions that should be met for this verdict, as stated in the law of this foreign state, but read what it says in Article 338. It says: "If the defendant does not respond to the action within a specified time limit, the court shall deliver a ruling adopting the claim, if the following conditions are met," he states. So it's not like the D.A. suggested such a possibility. See what the third point reads: "If the facts in the case do not give rise to the founding of the claim, the court will set up a preparatory hearing, and if the action at the hearing is not changed, the court will rule against the appeal motion." Please, the verdict to which the appeal motion is denied, in the same article where the verdict is spoken of for failure. It's confusion, it's impossible, it can't stand in the law. That this has been drawn up as a special member - there will be no verdict for failure, and a verdict will be passed that rejects the claim, etc. It's a different situation. We still have judges writing the name of the verdict. We've now thrown the verdict out of the law because of the absence. Practically, she's been expelled, and this is the new institute that's come, but it's the wrong institute. Read on, from the fourth position on here, where it says: "A verdict for missing will be postponed if it is necessary to... "and so on. Where's the efficiency there? The misdemeanor verdict was a more effective tool. You'll all agree to that. Here the failed attempt to respond to the action is raised to the mandatory submission level, to be given mandatory formal force, and out of this is a system of presummation and one of these presummations is the provision of Article 338, which is in one half something, and in the other half is something completely diametric opposite, otherwise. It can't be in the law, so it can't stand. So if the bill promoter thinks he needs an institute for missing, then let him rewrite what he's been copying, but let him copy it there as it's been written. If he thinks he should remain a verdict for his absence, he should state the verdict for his absence, but if he makes a mix like this, I'm telling you that no judge will understand what the legislator was going to do to this member. There's no efficiency, there's only confusion. With this amendment where we're looking for an erasure, we're actually looking for, we're drawing attention to the promoter that something is wrong with this member and let him rephrase it in a different way, but not like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7880	First Bosko Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7881	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am again sorry that the minister of justice is not here to hear several examples of life that show that this law in most of the provisions is pointless. I'm glad the minister's here. I support this amendment to delete Article 338 concerning the verdict for failure, because it is inconsistencies, confusing, vague and inadmissible. It is said here in the final view that the verdict for failure will be passed without a party's statement. It can be made, but that means that it is normally made after the parties have been declared, and that is precisely the meaning of the misdemeanor ruling, because the party has not declared itself after the previous deadline. This is about the confusion and meaninglessness of this provision. As far as the grounds for the verdict for failure, in life, and this law regulates life, regulates the procedure, the way in which citizens' disputes are settled before the court, it is possible that the prosecutor will file a lawsuit and it will be neat, delivered in a sufficient number of cases, based on facts, evidence, and the contrary, if he fails to give a response to the suit and the court to a verdict for failure, which, due to the lack of clarity of the claim, will be inconclusive. What does that mean? Here's an example. A neighbor is suing the neighbor for taking his job. He submitted evidence, owned a list for his plot, submitted evidence that he owned a list for a neighboring plot. He submitted a sketch of the plan where it appears that the neighbor made his auxiliary building part on his land, suggested evidence of an expert, a geometry that would determine the exact surface, measure the limit of the exemption with precise detailed points at border borders. In his request, he asked for the establishment of a occupation within the measures and limits for the area to be identified by the expert. The defendant does not dispute, does not appear at the hearing, the court rules. Such a verdict will not be carried out. With such a verdict when an executive procedure is initiated, it will not be possible to carry out such a procedure. Thus, it says that such a member of the law is vague, confusing, and especially in the part where the court is said to be able to reach a verdict but without a party’s statement. In cases where a party’s statement is requested, it is in conflict with the obligation of the party to submit a reply to the action. So, I support the amendment that suggests that this member of the law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7882	Anyone else by amendment? Minister, then Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7883	Just informatively, you know well that what the suit must contain is foreseen, and among other things, if it is a lawsuit filed by a lawyer, and she has a request that is incomprehensible or inexplicable, she will be dismissed, just so you know, you won't get a chance to correct her, she won't even get this verdict, but in order to stay out of the way, there won't be a verdict because of the failure, but the court will dismiss the lawsuit as messy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7884	Excuse me, Miss Jovanovic, replica, Mr. Ristic, wait and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the minister was not there when amendment promoter Zlatan Jovanovic explained why it is necessary for this newly established member of the verdict to be deleted, as did counterpart Krasic, but I will only look back on one position of this member who is contradictory and who is indeed inappropriate in all the countries you are calling for and who have, perhaps in some other way a regulated area of justice. It's completely illogical, and there are fellow lawyers present, and it's simply unacceptable for any citizen who can be exposed to any lawsuit. The whole member is inapplicable and unadjustable to our terms, and to what a man can be exposed to for ignorance, in case he is sad and fails to respond. Hypothetically, someone can be sued 10, 20, or 30 times a year in a litigation procedure and only have to answer to the courts on that lawsuit, and then the judge will make a mistrial. But you're saying that a misdemeanor verdict can be postponed when there is no evidence that the defendant has been served with an orderly suit, where it exists, and it is no doubt that the action is sent to him, and in that case, the court will set a deadline that cannot be longer than 30 days for delivery in the country, or longer than the time limit necessary for delivery within the meaning of Article 130(2) of this law, until it is determined whether the defendant has been sued neatly served. In the first sentence, you say that a verdict for missing can be postponed when there is no evidence that the defendant has been sued neatly. Tell me, in what country in the world without proof that someone has received a lawsuit, can something like this be applied?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7886	Replica, Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7887	I thank the President for giving me access to the institution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I address the Minister with a replica, since the minister has taught me that there will be no verdict for failure, if the suit has a vague or incomprehensible request. However, in the chapter relating to submissions in Article 100, it says that, if the submission contains a statement, that statement, if it contains a request, the party is required to specify in the submission the facts on which the application is based, as well as evidence when necessary. So the lawsuit where there's a request and facts and evidence that's proposed cannot be dismissed as messy. The request decision is a metric question. It shall only be decided by a verdict, and the content of the request cannot be decided in the previous submission study in terms of its regularity.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7888	So, I remind the MPs who thought they were reporting for the amendment that these were replicas, since we didn't finish, then Mr. Vukkovic, and Mr. Pajovic. Let me remind you, it's still about the amendment to Article 338.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7889	I will very briefly support what Mr Krasic said. Please, now that we're going deeper and deeper into this law, we're seeing more and more how we can't fix it with amendments, and now we've just seen things need to be fixed, because they're in mutual cohesion. I mean, yes, and if it makes sense to do what is river-like, and there is no amendment, except that this article is deleted, which is the fact that it is necessary and that there are provisions in some legislation under which it is already stated in the complaint that the prosecutor is looking for a possible verdict for failure. It also makes sense from a moral point of view, because if it is determined in certain procedures, it is important for the prosecutor to establish his right fundamentally. I'm not going to claim property rights to the house based on a verdict for missing out. I don't want to determine someone's paternity based on a mistrial, I want it to be determined in a measurement procedure, in a demonstration, etc. That's what the D.A.'s right to ask for. If the matter is irrelevant to him, if he doesn't have that moment, he can say--please, I want a verdict for failure, but maybe it's important to establish his right and he has an interest in being so determined. It can't be because the court decides how to determine it, because it doesn't have the same fact. He has a formal fact, but he doesn't have the same legal fact. It's all done here in this law to make things easier for the court, to burden the defendant, and nothing to make the rights of the citizens as best and as strong as possible protection. It's the slightest effort in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7890	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7891	Dear People's MPs, I support this proposal by a respected colleague, Jovanovic, who has proposed erasing this member, because this member is indeed vague, inaccurate and confusing. It seems that the proposer of this law, and especially this member wanted to speed up the verdicts, which would be bad, and often illegal, and if he meant it, then this law is good. If he meant something else, that the verdict should be legal and good, then this law is not good and this article is not good. It's been denied by this law, I'd say by alterations and additions, because you haven't changed everything, the basic principle of procedure, it's material, the determination of material truth. Then, to a large extent, you have denied the Court's investigative principle, even though you are a litigator, and now you are depriving this member of the full principle which is the basic principle of our procedural and legal procedure, without which is an unimaginable trial. First of all, there is a legal maximum, an audience et alter pars (let the other side be heard), a hearing principle and the other side. How will you judge if you haven't listened to the other side? Whether you admit it or not, every submission, every reply, although it does not contain formal-legal, or if it does not contain certain shortcomings, it is the answer to the suit, but you are in fact making it impossible for the litigator to plead, to come to a real debate in court. Practically, these are the three basic principles of civil-process procedure. That's why I mean really well-intentioned, Mr. Minister, at least delete this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7892	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Free Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7893	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just talking about the principle of impression, which is that everything seems to be easier for the court, easier for the state, not for the rights of citizens. But there's a case here where the court could be relieved, and it's not. We felt that even the reasoning of the verdict is not celibate to be as it has been so far, because as you know, all those who have little to do with civil law, in our case, the arguments of judgments are enormous, and they contain very few important facts, which explain the verdict. We're here so aware that it won't be accepted, that there's no argument in the verdicts, because so would the second-degree court be forced to read better, read the case, to be just a sentence without an explanation, as there is, it would really be one big progress and help to the court. We have proposed this amendment to delete the words in paragraph 4 when they say "the court will explain the requests of the parties and their allegations of the facts on which these requests are based", and the words "proofs, as well as the rules on which the court based the verdict". Indeed, it does not make any sense to state in the light of the judgment the parties on the facts on which their request is based. It is sufficient to state the party's request, to provide evidence and everything else that is provided for, but states the parties what they think about certain facts, these include our rulings largely, and, as you know about their rights, cite the most diverse facts and there is no point in stating this in the reasoning of the judgment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7894	Is there anyone else under this amendment? Here you go. National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7895	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear ministers, I consider the amendment to be comprehensive, because it will relieve the court of writing of long and unnecessary allegations of parties, which they have given during the dispute, because the verdict is otherwise based on facts and evidence with proper application of the right. Very often, when you get a judgment on minor requests, you have too many reasons that only mean a mere copying of statements from the record or from the submission. All these parties have already received through mutual submissions or have insight into the minutes, so it is unnecessary for the parties to get acquainted with what they have already declared themselves. I believe that it may have been a better solution even if the judgments of first-degree courts were brought without justification, and only at the request of the parties do the court have an obligation to make this argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7896	Is there anyone else under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 360 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Here you are, MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7897	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment to Article 360 follows all that we have spoken at the Institute of Mission, if MPs decide to drop the verdict on the draft of the law for failure. It would be necessary for the second position of that member who treats the verdict for failure to be left out in Article 360. What I can add to everything my colleagues have already said, which is that in any case the SRS advocates responsible individuals, but in any case also responsible institutions. It seems to us that this institute is condemned for failure, the responsibility of the institutions is reduced to the harm of the individual, or the accused, and the possibility of major abuses is created. That is why I call on you to delete this institute's judgment in the framework of the Law on Prosecution and, as I have already said in Article 360, paragraph 2, because it treats the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7898	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 361 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Homan. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. MP Vladimir Humane, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7899	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the existence of a tendency as a major violation of the provisions of the litigation procedure... (Zoran Stojkovic, from the post: The amendment is accepted. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7900	That amendment has been accepted, but I say preventively, if it is not in the report, the government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7901	The Committee's report did not accept this amendment, but later did. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment concerns the right to appeal. Article 366(3) provides that an untimely reply to the appeal is not to be considered by the second-degree court. We propose a previous solution that existed in earlier laws, that the untimely response to the appeal will not be rejected, but will be delivered to a second-degree court who will consider it, if possible. There is no harm in this proposal, no benefit as proposed in the law itself. The proposal not to consider an answer to a complaint which is untimely does not have any purpose, nor contributes to the efficiency of the procedure, but rather damages justice and making the right decision. Given that the process before the district court takes at least a year, I think the minister will agree with it, it needs to be speeded up, but this cannot be speeded up, because it says – if he can consider it and if he declares after a month, two or three, and the complaint will only be considered after a year, there is no harm, only benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7903	Anyone else want a word? National MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7904	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the general problem with this is that he is not condescending. On the one hand, he insists on great discipline, on speeding up the process, etc., then in some other segments he goes into extreme liberalisation, and on the one hand insists on the principle of disposition, on the other hand forses the formal principle, etc. I think and repeat what I said yesterday, which is that this bill on litigation, as well as the proposal for an executive procedure, should have been transferred to the 15th, the 16th point of the agenda, and I think that we should have eliminated these doubts, what was adopted, and what wasn't, because we have problems here, what was accepted by the Committee, and what wasn't, etc. Through this discussion, there have been too many objections to this law, and these are justified, from the various parliamentary groups that seriously question the objective of passing this law. As for our amendment, this is an amendment that is quite logical, normal to our terms and perfectly correct. There is no reason, if there is a possibility, that the court may not consider the answer to an appeal which may not have been timely. The truth is that the second-degree decision is long and there is nothing worse if the court's decision to appeal is made available and the answer to the appeal. If the court considers the appeal before the answer comes, it will not take it into account, but it should be given the opportunity of the court to exercise that basic principle of litigation, which is the principle of material truth. I therefore call on you to accept this amendment, because we see that there are two amendments from different parliamentary groups that have the intensities to allow the second-degree court to consider all those elements that may be relevant for making the right decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7905	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here you go. National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7906	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I find it all the same to respect this amendment because it does not contribute to delaying proceedings and there is no imperative norm and obligation for the court to respect any response to the appeal when it is untimely. In view of the fairness which is one of the basic principles governing the second-degree court and the principle of material truth, it was also useful to enable the court to consider the references from the response to the complaint submitted by the party satisfied with the decision. The right to respond to the appeal is laid down on a deadline shorter than the deadline for the statement of appeal. Therefore, if a person is allowed to file a complaint within 15 days, it is unfair and unfair not to consider an answer to a complaint that came on the ninth or tenth day. In this way, the parties are placed in an unequal position before the law and before the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7907	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 366 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7908	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have already heard, this is about article 366 on the response to the appeal. The promoter asked that the second-degree body, or second-degree court, not to consider an untimely response. The position of the SRS is that this is not good, given the duration of the decision or decision on the first-degree ruling of the second-degree court. We think it's bad on the other hand, that the side that needs to be answered may not have been able to prepare adequate evidence within some legal time frame and file it with a second-degree court. And that second-degree court, if there is no possibility that one such answer might be considered, was not left to it. It is called into question what kind of judgment it will make, whether to confirm it in a first-degree procedure, cancel it or modify it. If the weight of the evidence in that response is large and the second-degree court cannot consider it, then the party will request a review of the case at the Supreme Court and then all from the beginning. So we should leave it to the second-degree court to consider all the documentation that comes to it, however, with one more difficult circumstance not to give a timely reply, it does not have to consider. But it still needs to be given the opportunity to make that judgment based on facts and evidence rather than merely mere forms of deadlines for appeal and response.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7909	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word for Parliamentarian Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7910	This amendment is practically going in the same direction as our amendment. Both amendments are good and... You'll take it? So, this amendment to Mr. Arsic is on the same line as our amendment. In principle, it would be good for one of these two amendments to be accepted, because I don't see why such discipline of parties that don't exactly benefit anyone this time, and we just talked about some other forms of discipline or not discipline, so we allowed someone to play with whether or not they wanted to admit the claim, or to admit it and not admit it, etc. In this case, I would really ask for understanding, simply to accept one of these two amendments because it can't hurt that they accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7911	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7912	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have predicted that a new position should be introduced instead of Article 369(2), but I have now noticed that it would be better if we had provided for another amendment and the possibility of eradicating the position of the 2nd member, if the promoter did not want to accept our proposal. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the second subparagraph of Article 2 of this Article, provide that the second-degree court in the appeal procedure may open a hearing if it finds it necessary to re-apply the evidence previously carried out in order to determine the facts of fact. This attitude existed in earlier laws, for at least 30 years, and we know that in practice, the second-degree court never used this right because it didn't want to open the debate. On the Justice Committee, everyone agreed, and I think the minister, that it is not known that the court has taken advantage of this position, so it is really unnecessary to apply some provision of law which is clearly not applicable. The DS parliamentary group has therefore proposed that instead of this position, which has never been applied, a new position would be put in place in disputes in which there are conditions to declare a review, only in the most complex cases, there is the possibility that the powerholders, legislators, will attend meetings of the second-degree court. This is similar to a criminal procedure, but it would make a lot of difference in the seriousness of the second-degree court in making second-degree decisions and the most complex ones, as pronouns and parties would be able to attend to what the judge is saying and to comment briefly. I think this solution would be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7913	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed, by this amendment, in the essence of the obligation of the second-degree court to call on the party, i.e. its pro-author or legal representative, to the second-degree council sitting where it is decided by appeal in the event that the party in the complaint or in response to the appeal has requested it. The basic conditions to create the court's obligation to call on the party are that there are disputes in which a review can be declared. According to this draft law, the revision can be declared if the value of the 500,000 dinar dispute is met or if it is about housing requirements, working relationships, mandatory maintenance relationships, or family relations, regardless of the value of the dispute. So it's either big property-legal requirements or it's a particular kind of dispute that is very important to both parties and the state. Why did we suggest inviting parties to a second-degree court? In order to achieve transparency and the public in the second instance proceedings, but also to achieve the most significant principle of litigation, which is a participatory principle, that the parties may, directly before the court, make an additional fact or their position regarding the fact, i.e. to give further interpretation of the right on which the second-degree court will also base its decision. This is in terms of the complete democracy of the procedure in which the citizens take part, which comes into the situation that the courts resolve their disputes with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7915	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word for the People's MP, Marco Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the matter of regular legal drugs is being arranged with the head of XXVII. If we asked the citizens, and the G17 plus asked them -- what would be the most significant thing in this procedure that should be done, they would say -- cut all possible deadlines. We do not have in this procedure any time limit within which a second-degree court is due to decide on the citizens' appeal of a first-degree court ruling. Alpha and the omega of all this is to be a rock. I have to tell you that there's a six-month deadline in the Labour Act to settle a work dispute, from filing a lawsuit to being in law enforcement. As far as I know as a lawyer, that deadline has never been respected in any case. I think we need to control this deadline that this law requires that we set deadlines within which a second-degree court is required to take action and bring a verdict on the appeal. Therefore, it could be one deadline that would extend from court to decision-making which could not be longer than 90 days. I think the biggest flow of this law would be to do something for the citizens, which is to shorten the deadlines in which the courts do something. The courts are independent in the trial, but they are not independent of work. So let's set deadlines. I think the citizens will be very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7917	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Please, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that there must be deadlines and that trials must be speeded up, but what the SRS parliamentary group certainly doesn't want, and hopefully the other parliamentary groups in this House, is that speed and efficiency go to the heart of the truth. What is most important in one procedure is that the decision taken on the basis of the correct factual situation, the proper application of the material law and amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, that is, MP Veroljub Arsic, is on the basis of that objective, because we ask that, in so far as the response to the appeal is delivered after the expiry of the deadline but before the second-degree court, or the district court has decided on that appeal, that this response be delivered to a second-degree court which will not have to, but will certainly have the possibility, to also quote from the response to the appeal, and thus to take a more high-quality verdict, and to shorten the procedure which could continue to go to the review and other emergency legal remedies. I therefore propose that the amendment to Article 366 of Mr Veroljub Arsic be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7919	Anyone else want to talk about Amendment 369? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to Article 378. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Group, amendment to Article 378. The draft law on litigation was submitted by Mr Branislav Blazic. The amendment requires that a second position be added in Article 378 after the first position, which reads: "If the second-degree court rescinds the first-degree verdict brought in the re- first-degree procedure, then orders that the new main debate be held before the second-largest or judge". The purpose of this amendment is that, several times, which is a very common case in practice, the decision of the first-degree court taken by the same large, or individual judge, is to establish the obligation to assign the case to another judge, or to the second-largest. The practice so far has shown that, in this way, a considerable delay in dispute resolution is necessary, if you give the judge a chance to resolve a certain dispute and if it fails, means that when the ruling is suspended by a second-degree court decision, the decision to abolish, in addition, states why the new evidence to be obtained, which are the material rules to be taken into account and the second-degree court is referring to the first-degree court, or the judge of the individual in which the case is to be conducted, in order for the decision to be taken again good and to be able to pass the review before the second-degree body. If the second-degree court makes the same decision again, it is necessary to simply exempt such a case from the work of the judge and to be assigned to someone else, since it is obvious that there can be numerous abuses in this way. We had an example relating to the municipality of Zemun and to the Master's building that DOS regime was trying to take away the SRS, that the judge made the same decision three times, even though the district court insisted on abolishing that decision. In such cases, it is obvious that it is an abuse that, unless an amendment of the SRS is accepted, it is practically ongoing, because according to current legislation, it is possible that the same judge and ten times may make an incorrect decision, that the district court repeals that decision, that the case is being returned to him again, although he has proved repeatedly that he is obviously not capable of making an appropriate decision in this particular case, for these or those reasons. I hope this will be one of the amendments that the ministry will accept, that is, Minister of Justice Mr Stojkovic. He is not here right now, but unless he accepts it, I hope that the parliamentary groups will have so much awareness of the importance of this amendment and that in the day for the benefit of all our citizens, they will vote in favour of Mr Blazic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7921	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7922	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we want the effectiveness of resolving disputes in the litigation process, then this amendment is quite acceptable and it is quite realistic and should not be considered at all - it should be accepted without any objections. In practice, we have a large number of cases that are abolished by higher courts, and above all by county courts. In those cases, the ruling should be abolished and the judgment should be lifted, in a second-degree decision by the second-degree court, that the judgment should be lifted and the case returned to the same court, but to the second-degreed court. Why? If an analysis was carried out and delivered to the MPs, they would make sure that we have good judges and good councils, that they resolve their disputes correctly, and that they have one number of such judges who, in a small number or rarely, happen to abolish judgments. We have such larger and such presidents bigger and judges who are mostly 80% of the convictions being abolished. What do you do in that case? In that case, the verdict should be abolished and the case returned to the first-degree court, but the second-largest. This amendment is quite acceptable, in practice effective and should therefore be accepted. It's going to improve the text of the law, and it shouldn't be for those who don't work in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7923	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7924	Respecting all the reasons that stand for that to be good, I'll warn you of an article. In 369 C.E., where the second-degree court, when it's due to end again, solves itself. We've overcome it that way, but I don't think this is the only reason we should adopt the amendment. Otherwise, the reason is really justified. We've already arranged this situation, if it needs to be annulled again, the second-degree court itself opens up a debate and solves the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7925	No one mentioned you. National MP Marko Krstin spoke of Branislav Blazic and the intensity that exists in his amendment. You are not Branislav Blazic. If you're going to do business, let me know. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7926	A member of 100 was injured, Mr. Markovic, because you did not follow the debate closely. Yes, it is indisputable that I am not Branislav Blazic, but it is also undeniable that I explained on behalf of Mr Branislav Blazic this amendment. Then Mr. Kristin came out and misread my exposure. That's why I asked for a replica. The gentleman agrees, so I don't see what's controversial. It is that, when a second-degree court abolishes that decision, it has an obligation to open the hearing in the second instance, but only if the contested judgment is based on the wrong and incompletely established factual situation, or in the case before the first-degree court of law, the provisions of the litigation proceedings are significantly violated. If there's been a misapplication of material law, then the second-degree court, you say the alterations, will not change, and we know very well that the county courts are modifying one of the 50 verdicts. In all other cases, it shall be returned to the first-degree court for rejuvenation. Simply this way, this possibility of abuse is lifted. We don't mind, but then it must also be prescribed the second-degree court's obligation that, in case of misapplication of material rights, it always changes the contested first-degree decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7927	Does anyone want to make an amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Stevica Dedjanski has tabled an amendment proposing that heading 28. "A complaint with an alternative proposal for audit decision (direct audit)" and members 389, 390, 391, 392, and 393 are deleted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is required to delete the whole part of the law called "A complaint with an alternative proposal for audit decision (direct review) and members from 389 to 393, which in practice means that it is necessary to completely wipe out this type of emergency remedy, because it is unnecessary, because it will in practice delay the whole process, because if the defendant does not agree with such a legal remedy, then there is no direct revision, and it loses valuable time and violates the principle of efficiency of the procedure and the principle of economicity of the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7929	National MP Zoran Krasic, then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7930	This is a new legal institute, which is first incorporated into our law on litigation. This is the situation where the second-degree body and the form of appeal are skipped, with the agreement of both parties, the Supreme Court resolves, practically, the reform, as second-degree, and the audit court. It's a brand-new institute, where it counts that the procedure can be accelerated. I am not sure that the procedure will be accelerated, for the simple reason that in this way, practically, the parties are allowed not to accept the jurisdiction of the second-degree court. The parties may freely make their demands available, but the parties must respect the actual jurisdiction, they must respect the order of the courts. In this way, it is practically possible for the Supreme Court to resolve something and, apparently, it is a faster procedure, so that conditions are created as soon as possible to move towards execution. There's nothing like this in our immediate environment. In our immediate environment there are classic traditional emergency legal medicines. It's listed here as an emergency legal remedy, let me say, in an announcement, before the review provision. I don't think anything like this should be in our law, that it won't be any use to this. There may be a Supreme Court closure. I'm not talking specifically about the conditions under which this is allowed to be used, which are also problematic. It's probably why there's no institute like this in most legal systems, at least this one doesn't exist. There's some modeality, but there's no such thing. In particular, I would like to state that this legal remedy may disprove the verdict, of course, if it is a dispute that meets the conditions that a review can be declared against the verdict, only because of the misapplication of material law and the material violation of Article 361(2), paragraph 5. Point 5 reads: "If, contrary to the provisions of this law, the court has based its decision on the parties' unlawful powers – Article 3(3)." Somebody understand Article 3. – the availability of the party contrary to the mandatory regulations and that the parties agree on the decision of the Supreme Court. You can see for yourself that there is little and meaninglessness, something that is impossible, is in fact an impossible situation. Why would the opposing party accept that such a thing exists if, in a first-degree procedure, she made her claim and acted on the verdict for which she pleaded? I think this is how you just formally give the opportunity. The courts can hardly use this, the parties probably can't use it, because they have no interest in using this. This is written in order to speed up the process, speed up the right of parties to quickly resolve a dispute. Obviously, whoever wrote this law forgot that in a litigation proceedings the court involved in resolving a disputed relationship, but the dispute was only originally established because the prosecutor felt that something was controversial, and the defendant only later accepted that it might become controversial. I only listed this because the whole law is based on the presummation system, and the wrong one is the first one, the first one. If we're not looking at the first, starting presumption or the first fact, then lose some sense of purpose and some logic. This institute, in practice, does not protect parties, gives the possibility to courts, needlessly inserts certain provisions that, essentially, mean nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7931	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if we asked the Proposer to bring us out and give an explanation in which country of the European Union is such a solution in a civil process for the exercise of citizens' rights? It is not known whether this is a regular or extraordinary legal remedy, as soon as it is determined and proposed with an alternative. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of Direct Audit is not known, both in domestic and in parallel law. This oversteps the jurisdiction of the second-degree court, in particular, with us district courts, so the proposal is unconstitutional because it is not established, nor is it a legal category, nor is it constitutional. This proposal violates and breaks unity and legal order in civil law, which, if adopted, will have inconspicuous and harmful consequences for our citizens and public interest. You see, the promoter proposed in Article 390 of the regulation – the procedure regarding Article 389, so it is proposed to delete, for the same reasons, because this institute, which is proposed, is absolutely unconstitutional. The principle of integrity is introduced, because we reintroduce this principle and some of the views of the Supreme Court, which are published in the Supreme Court bulletins and which become a source of law and amend the law. This violates the unity of the legal order. That is why I must say that we are returning, with this introduction of the principle of integrity, and by abolishing the principle of establishing material truth, the principle of debate before the court, we are going back to real-life former socialism. What do we need? Who do we have to go back to when it comes to civil law? It is not clear how the courts will cope, how will the parties exercise their rights, what confusion will our judiciary now be thrown at, how will judges decide, if there is no alternative in the law? That alternative means, achieving the right of selective, further, for Shaya she can, and for Paiu she can't. Now you're going to have a situation, so we're going to have one situation that the principle of material truth will be the determination of a truly suppressed principle of integrity. This is why the SRS has proposed to delete these members, because we believe that the existing solution is more effective for the legal order and the exercise of the rights of our citizens and that it is more effective in the public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7933	Anyone else by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 394 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 394. Proposal for a law on litigation. With this amendment, I propose that in the position of Article 364(2), the amount of 300,000 dinars, which refers to the value of the case, is not replaced by 500,000 dinars, is no need to increase this amount compared to the existing law. What's this about? Article 394. The draft law on litigation concerns the revision of the litigation procedure. Simply, we in the SRS did not get enough convincing reasoning from the legislator so that we could agree on such a proposal. On the other hand, two are the basic reasons why we believe that this amount should not be increased at this time. First, knowing the situation in our judiciary after several cuttings of judges by the authorities from 2000 to today and bringing their listeners to judges from municipal courts to the Supreme and Constitutional Court. With this in mind and a strong verdict in the second degree in many cases, we are concerned about the interested parties in the litigation process. The second thing, even 300,000 dinars is not a negligible amount for opportunities in Serbia that it should be increased to 500,000 dinars. In the case of an emergency coupled asset, or audit. In this way, simply, the proposal tightens the conditions for the authorisation of the revision, by increasing the censorship, which is why I cannot agree with the above because certain rights are denied by such a proposal as Article 84 when parties are forced to take lawyers in the audit process, in this respect. What's characteristic of all the bill proposals, you can't boast, or when you don't know how to explain a legal solution, not to refer to some recommendation from some foreign committee, and another question, as we heard from the predecessors of the SRS, is the question, who wrote that bill. That is why I suggest you accept this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7935	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukković, Slobodan Pajović and Miodrag Djidić, Representative of the Proposer and Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Markovic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7936	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we wanted to simply clarify this issue of declaration of review with this amendment. Namely, as one colleague noted, which is actually true with us, because litigation takes a very long time, the average is between six and seven years, and these are disputes of greater value, greater complexity for which the revision is intended. We simply wondered, what if there was a situation where, in the meantime, the inflationary movement caused a change of law in the litigation process and that it could simply happen that some court, the right to review values according to the then applicable litigation procedure, then the applicable provisions of the litigation procedure concerning the value of the dispute, rather than the time when the procedure was initiated. Although it seems perfectly logical that the permission to review is valued according to the time when the proceedings were initiated and the action was filed, it may occur that someone interprets it differently. In order to avoid any dilemma on this matter, we have proposed an amendment, if it is accepted, nothing corrupts, and if something is not understood, it contributes to having a completely clear and precise solution, so that this new position that we are adding would be read as follows: "the permission to review according to the value of the dispute will be valued in accordance with the provisions of the law applicable at the time of the action". Please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7937	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think you need to accept this amendment because the Supreme Court has the opposite interpretation of this amendment. In cases where there is a change in the law and where the value of the declaration is, the conditions for the declaration of the audit are determined by the values of the dispute, there is a rejection of the audit. It was the case in 1994, 1995, and 1996 that the Supreme Court was cleared of the cases declared after the audit, because there was an amendment to the law. So, some people who have led the dispute for 10 years, lost, at the time of the lawsuit, had the right to declare the audit due to the amending law due to inflation, and they lost it only because of the Court's perception that it was 100% wrong because the Supreme Court wanted to release the case. You know that, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7939	Anyone else want a word? (No. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic to Article 395. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has submitted a series of amendments to the draft law on litigation. So our goal is to make the law that is of paramount importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia more precise and fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have made an amendment to Article 395 which reads as follows: "The review is also highly permitted against a second-degree verdict which could not be challenged by revision under the provisions of Article 394 of this Act, when, according to the Court of Appeal's assessment of the authorisation of this audit, it is necessary to consider legal issues of general interest, uniform court practice or when new interpretation of the law is required". We're looking for an explanation to be a member of 395. The bill is deleted. You can't have the right to review, it can't depend on the court. The will of the court, in this case, is placed above the law by this member. What can be clearly seen is that judicial practice is being introduced as a copy of the law, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the positive legal regulations, and in collapsing with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The court cannot judge on the basis of an interpretation of the rights given by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. In that case, the small door, as my fellow SRS MPs have said, introduces a predetermined right, where judgments are sources of law, which is characterized by the Anglo-Saxon legal system. The relative majority of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, made up of the ruling parties and who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and here I particularly single out the DSS, which is the main lever of power in Serbia, I want to break the practice that the laws in this Assembly are passed by an urgent procedure and that the reasons for the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure of utmost importance for all citizens of Serbia characterise that this is the strategic interest of the Republic of Serbia to pass laws, because we all strive for Serbia to join the EU. Namely, the vice-president of the republican government, Mr Miroljub Labus, said a few days ago that Serbia would join the EU after 2012. So there's no need to pass the laws quickly. The SRS will insist on amendments insisting on more precise legal solutions, especially if they are of interest to all citizens of Serbia. We do not want laws to be passed quickly and to be at the expense of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7941	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7942	Article 395. The draft law virtually denies the constitutional principle of legality. I can't argue that such a solution exists in Anglo-Saxon law, but in this continental one, which is mainly European law, on these basic principles was based on the right of the former Socialist self-government Yugoslavia and Serbia and most of the countries of Europe have this continental view of the principle of legality. In England, it is well known to the citizens that, in addition to the law, the source of justice is also individual judgments and they know in advance of that risk and need to be informed. Whether it's an amendment, whether it's a 1826 verdict or so. Modern, civilised law, the principle of legality implies in a completely different way, that objective norms are universally binding in law, and that the court only interprets the will of the legislator, that the court cannot create law. We have this amendment, as one of the previous amendments, when it was given to the court first degree in case a large number of cases appear that could seek the legal position of the Supreme Court, where one of the participants in the debate stated that the precedent was introduced as a source of law. We see here the most direct precedent. You see, here will depend only on the will of the Greater Court of Appeal, no matter what I'm opposed to such an organization and this kind of arrangement of courts, but generically viewed as an appeal court will always appear some second-degree court, no matter what we call it, whether the county court, whether it appeals. In that context, I use the word "appellate court." The court can't judge whether anyone will have the right to review. The court can't say - based on Article 395, we don't know about Article 394. Or, we are not bound by Article 394 in this case, not to use the name of the party or subject matter or anything else. It can't depend on whether the party has the right to review or not. And especially to take over thinking about the completeness of the audit permit based on what's said here. He says, when it comes to the Court of Appeals, it's about the permission of this audit. We don't have criteria based on which he appreciates permission. Furthermore, legal issues of general interest need to be considered. Why on my subject to consider legal matters of general interest? The law on litigation resolves how to resolve the dispute between two citizens, two parties, two legal persons, a natural and legal person. Why would the justice department study on my case? I'm asking for effective protection from the court, because I find this controversial. The court accepts jurisdiction, settles the dispute, why now on my case someone would experience and drag whether he was here or stuck there. To even court practice. Don't even the court practice on my case. Unite court practice by bringing quality legal views to the Supreme Court who will have less or more binding character for judges, because it will depend on whether a judge is worthy, whether a judge is professional. Next, or when it takes a new interpretation of the right. What new interpretation of the law? What's that? authentic, court, doctrinal, street? We don't want that. Why on my subject to change the interpretation of rights? It can't be interpreted right that way. The court interprets the will of the legislator, which is contained in a certain standard. I apologize for this extension, just to name one thing. It's just that there's still a request in The Hague to allow me to file a complaint. That's where the statutes are imperfect. We know it's not even a court of law. We want our courts to be real courts based on the law, which respect the law, and do not respect the will of the judges. What if the judge's will changes? No matter what you put an appeal court here and you delay the application of this provision, it must not exist in law, because it is contrary to the principle of legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7943	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. National MP Bosko Ristic. Just for the sake of the citizens who are following the session and for the sake of you who are participating in the debate, then, let me inform the hour between ten and six of the congregations. Since there are only five amendments left, that we will give a break after all these amendments have been completed, to extend the work in a few minutes, so that citizens can constantly follow this point and later on. Thank you for understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7944	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of most of the discussion of the predecessors, because I believe this solution allows for the possibility that, without criteria, one of the most important legal remedies, and on the other hand, it means that individual centres of power can influence the creation of the views of certain courts. First of all, when it comes to a number of lawsuits or so-called masseuse lawsuits with a large number of prosecutors or defendants, and when one of the parties is in a dispute state or some state institution. We have had opportunities for courts, especially in the disputes of citizens against "Electrition" or some other similar public enterprises, to stop trials without showing sufficient expertise and courage to cut them right, with the law being applied. Either the enormous inflow of baseless claims or, on the other hand, they succumbed to the influences of individual lobbies that had strong positions and influences in society, and thus halted the proceedings until in a unique way the law was agreed upon. In order to avoid an agreed way of applying the right, which would be translated into a judicial position and thus be burdened with the citizens of Serbia, I believe that such a provision is both unnecessary and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7945	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic to Article 398. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7946	Article 398 regulates when the audit can be declared. We have four points. The first point on which I have submitted the amendment is - the revision may be declared due to a significant violation of the provisions of the litigation procedure referred to in Article 361(2) other than point 4. I, by amendment, predicted that words are deleted except for point 4. Since this article refers to Article 361 here is Article 361, which defines when there is a significant breach of the litigation procedure. We have points 1 to 12 here, and point 4 of which is proposed to delete is said as follows: 'The important violation of the litigation always exists if the court has decided on a claim for which a senior judge of the same kind is really in charge, a court of other kind, or if, in the case of a complaint, the court has incorrectly decided that he is indeed in charge here we have one illogical situation to acknowledge that there is a significant breach of the litigation process, but that the audit cannot be declared. The audit may be declared even though the court has been unlawfully drawn up, if it is decided on a request which does not fall within the jurisdiction of the court, etc., that I do not read all 12 points. It cannot be declared if the court has ruled on an appeal for which a senior court is indeed in charge, a second court, or if the court has incorrectly decided that it is indeed competent for the party to object. Because of this illogicality, I suggest that this amendment not be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7947	Anyone else by this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7948	This article best confirms that such a bad bill cannot be corrected by amendments either. I would ask the MPs to pay attention. It can't be fixed by amendments, it's some sort of manners, but it's the fourth year when something is prescribed, when you're looking for a connection with Europe, etc. Then there's no selection and then you lose your mind. I'm telling you, the judges don't understand this. They won't understand. I will read what it says in the law that experts have prescribed - the reasons for the declaration of audits, because of violations of the provisions of the litigation procedure laid down in that article, which was made in the proceedings before the second-degree court, the second - because of the misapplication of material law and the third - because of the over-application of the claim if the infringement was made in the proceedings before the second-degree court. The audit contests the second-degree court's verdict. Aware of the facts of what is happening in our proceedings and that any skilled lawyer can present that injury in the first degree court as a second degree injury, can act as a reason for the audit and not being noticed, that there was no reason for the review, legally, and that the revision would pass and that it would be rectified and brought to some justice. If so, and if the task force that has done this bill has quite massacred the existing solutions in our law on litigation procedure, has added something new in an extremely problematic way, then I don't know why you would rule out the possibility of submitting an audit, if the court has decided on an appeal for which the same court of the same kind has jurisdiction. Since we have this newspaper, the courts of one kind, of another species, of a third kind, so within each species we have lower and more courts, why, I think, because of the existing application of the provisions of the law on jurisdiction, this is an impossible situation with us. Our courts are as smart as they are to avoid and not allow this situation to come. You've predicted that possibility, you're sure there's going to be an existing law on the regulation of courts to cause such situations. Since you and the county and county are treating the future organization as first-degree court, you are then making it clear that it is possible for the district court to resolve the claim and that the municipal court is indeed in charge. It's terrible to write something like that. And for this reason, in order to avoid this situation of possible disputes, this amendment has been tabled, so that the situation in Article 361 paragraph 2 of point 4 is not singled out, but that it is also one of the reasons why the revision can be submitted. This is how you practically rectrossed the law, and you're aware that as a first-degree court they can appear within the same kind of different level of court. I don't know if you thought twice about saying no to this amendment. You should accept it because it prevents the possibility that in this situation both the county and the municipality are likely to be in charge. I haven't cited other cases from point 4, and they're also important. Article 361(4), paragraph 2. - or if, on account of the objection of the parties, the court has incorrectly decided that it is indeed competent. He's declared to be really competent. There is tolerance in local jurisdiction, but there is no tolerance in real jurisdiction. He could really be in charge of trade, and he decided municipally. You give a lot of meaning to complaints. How many cases have there been that the second-degree court, resolving the appeal, made an even greater mistake than the first-degree court. We're talking about an emergency legal remedy. If that's the case, then what are you doing? (President: Time. If you are so sure of second-degree courts, then discard the audit. But there must be an audit. And the judges are people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7949	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 401 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on litigation, I have submitted to Article 401 of the amendment, which reads that Article 401 of Section 1 of the word "except for Article 389 of this Act" is deleted. I'll read to explain the untimely, incomplete or unsatisfactory revision, and then except for the member. We are also returning what is untimely and incompletely and unauthorized that some court may decide to be fully permitted and timely, which means that it is excessive and I think that this part of the word "except for Article 389 of this Law" should be deleted in order for this amendment to be complete, one technical flaw in Article 401. Furthermore, in point 2(2), point 2 is deleted. I'm going to read it "if the review has declared a person who is not a lawyer," I think it's too high to be in this bill. Then, point 3) of the word "revision" is deleted "if the audit has been declared by the person who gave up the audit". It's such an illogicality, one nonsense. Can the audit be declared by a person who has already given up the revision, which is too much to stand in this bill, as well as point 5) "if the review is against a verdict against which it cannot be filed by law, except from Article 393 of this Law", where it is also excessive, and Article 393 of this Law says - The Supreme Court can refuse the legal remedy provided for in Article 389. So there's no point in standing here. This is a pretty bad bill, it's misspelled, and our people have one saying "what the coat of arms does not correct" Mr. Minister, and it's hardly going to be a good one.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7951	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 417 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic to Article 418. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here is the word of the People's MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that the voting machine in this House decided at the beginning of the session to unite the debate on such two important legislative projects, what are the Law on the Procedural Procedure and the Law on Executive Procedure. It was about system laws, and it was really necessary for them, in front of MPs, to be conducted one expert-legislative discussion, because it is obvious that these legal projects have a lot of gaps. A large number of members are unspeakable, superficial, full of legal gaps, which are mentioned in 150 amendments to how much total they are submitted to both legal projects. One of the members who has been unspoken is also a member of 418, to whom I submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It is a member who regulates the application for the protection of legality as an emergency legal remedy, and it is said that unless a public prosecutor raises a claim for the protection of legality within the deadlines provided for by law, the party who submitted the proposal has been authorised to declare the legal remedy within 30 days of the date of receipt. My amendment consists of adding at the end of this sentence, and then adding words, provided that she did not declare an audit. Because, as a subsidiary applicant, there are several reasons for the protection of legality; only if she has not already declared an audit, and if she has declared an audit then it is unacceptable to use two different grounds of self-initiatively using the right to two similar emergency legal remedies. Secondly, in this way, we would free the unnecessary councils of Serbia's Supreme Court and avoid the situation that theoretically there is an opportunity for the same party to declare an audit and then apply for the protection of legality, that the Supreme Court has tried to correct these two issues separately, and it is theoretically possible that it may even make two different decisions, and possibly, having seen such legal indemnity, the representative of the promoter has somewhat tried to correct this error in Article 419, where he says - that if the same decision has been brought against the same decision and the application for the protection of legality, the Supreme Court of Serbia will decide on these legal remedies with one decision. I think it's far more meaningful that the adoption of this amendment would specify this subject, and that would be the law. It is likely that this amendment has won on its qualitativeity, and I propose that the Minister accepts this amendment as a representative and makes the law more acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7953	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7954	The prosecutor sued and asked the court to judge the table, and the court decided and sentenced him to fifty. The party that lost the dispute, provided the conditions for review have been met, said the review. The party that sued, since it was not satisfied, because it did not receive the table, said the review. The party that declared the review as a prosecutor submitted a proposal to the public prosecutor and asked him to raise a claim for the protection of legality for reasons prescribed by law, which are given the right to include the prosecutor. The D.A. didn't respond within 30 days. The prosecutor - the party that declared the audit, which received fifty of the required ones, has the right to report as a subsidiary republican public prosecutor, and she, in the process before the audit court, has her own audit and her application for protection of legality, and the defendant, who lost the dispute, has only been audited. You can't have one party with two legal remedies, one with two legal remedies, the name and last name of two legal remedies, to be in the process before the Supreme Court. That is why we asked for this member to be upgraded by adding words - and provided that the party did not declare the review at the same time. We want to equalize the parties involved in the procedure. The one who says - and the other party is allowed to address the prosecutor, too, etc. I must refer to the practice that exists - so far there was no such possibility that the party on behalf of the prosecutor, since the prosecutor did not accept it, could have submitted a proposal to the public prosecutor and asked him to raise a claim for protection of legality. If he doesn't raise legal rights, that's the end of the story. If she met the requirements for the revision, she was only audited in front of the Supreme Court. There are good provisions concerning the simultaneous application for the protection of legality, when raised by a public prosecutor and if the party's audit is present. And in this way you favour one party and favour the caste that will appear before the Supreme Court of Serbia, which will only be selected, licensed lawyers, because you have abolished the party's right to declare the audit. If you've lifted her right to declare her audit, why did you give her the right to act as a subsidiary prosecutor on behalf of a republican public prosecutor? Since we only have one more amendment and it is likely that next week will be a day to vote on this bill, I would suggest that the Government once again review all these amendments and some of the basic solutions contained in the bill, because I am afraid, and I see that most people who understand little about this job are afraid that our courts will enforce this law. I'm afraid you don't make much more confusion than the one that's already there. This confusion is today in the courts of subjective character. If we add to these subjective characters something that would be an objective danger, then we will lose the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7955	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 424th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukkovic, Slobodan Pajovic and Miodrag Djidic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, the word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7956	You know, a month or 30 days to repeat the procedure, when there are very strong reasons to bring down the judicial verdict, which was passed in the previous procedure, is narrowed down to a certain number of cases that guarantee that such a verdict can be brought down, then the 30-day period is shown to be very short. That was in the previous law. And now he's held that 30-day deadline. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't extend that deadline to three months, as we suggested by the amendment, because the application for the protection of legality, which is being invested by a public prosecutor, also has an emergency legal remedy of three months. I think this is useful. It goes in favour of the guarantee of the right of a citizen who has finally won a new verdict, a new legal circumstance, to intervene according to a judicial verdict and there is no reason not to adopt this proposal. This isn't where the court is held important. If someone invests within 30 days he'll probably invest within three months. It's a small difference, but we guarantee citizens a better outcome and a safer deadline that they will be able to protect themselves. Since this is the last amendment, I appeal to Mr. Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I know that there are great lawyers there, including the Prime Minister, who understands a lot about these things, to reconsider with this group whether they should eventually withdraw this law from the procedure, that it should be done a little bit. I don't know for a long time, but in a shorter period, something could be fixed and, let's say, from the new year, we're re-solved and we're voting on a more coherent and better text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7957	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7958	I'd like to thank the MPs for their cooperation. I don't think there were any political advances and a desire for political proof. It was indeed an exchange of an expert opinion. A good number of amendments that have been submitted, according to the motionor, would change the concept of the law, and since we believe that this concept is good, one number has not been accepted, and one number has indeed been accepted, because it was about improvements, both in language and in terms of technical and precision of certain norms. So what I'm trying to say is that I'm pleasantly surprised by the desire to help us do something to get a law that should be an acceleration. I would like to add just one more thing that has appeared in the good number of MPs who have submitted amendments. It's about this paper in law, and one of them is a direct audit. I would like to say that there is no fear of any precedent right, because in principle, if one court is accepted to rule, then interpret law, it's his job. There is no problem with the one who interprets it by complaint, and in the end he says, "You misread it down there, I think like this." Normally, then, the Supreme Court, as the highest court, at the very end of the line as the most experienced, should be composed of the best judges and that the final opinion in interpreting rights and equality, because if it weren't for that, I'm afraid that every party would come into a situation to interpret each judge in its own way and that we don't know what the real essence of the law is. Therefore, in this sense, there is no concern, and I think that this Supreme Court will definitely, when the real second-degree person who works on complaints is established, the Supreme Court will definitely get its role in equating the practice in this country. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7959	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. On the basis of Article 81(1), I'm setting a break until 3:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the second part of today's session. Please determine the quorum before continuing. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the e-system parliamentary units. We have a quorum to work with. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an EXECUTIVE PROCEDURE (specificity) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Petar Jojić, Bosko Ristic, Nemanja Sarović, Vjerica Radeta, Bozidar Koprivica, Natasa Jovanovic, Milan Stevanovic, Sreto Perić, Miljko Četrović, Branislav Rankić, Momir Marković, Milovan Radovanović, Milorad Mirčić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Igor Bečić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Dragan Colić, Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Blažić, Miroslav Nedeljković, Igor Mirović, Mileta Posurica, Milan Veseinović, Ljubomir Kragović, Nenad Mitrović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vojislav Milajić and together Petar Cvetković, Jovan Palalić and Goran Rakovac. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law on the executive procedure has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic. Here you go. Please call one of the vice presidents, if possible, to help with the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on executive procedure. Those members shall be governed by the provisions in relation to the composition of the court. In the executive procedure, according to the applicable law, a solution and a decision to permit the execution shall be made by an individual judge. The existing Implementing Procedure Act provides that the dissatisfaction party, i.e. the debtor, has the right to declare an objection. In Article 22(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is prescribed that each person is guaranteed the right to appeal or any other remedy. When we were doing the Act of Executive Procedure in 2000, I advocated, because of the shortness of procedure and efficiency, to ensure first and foremost the protection of creditors without protecting the debt lobby. The bill provides for a solution that is not based on the Constitution, not a constitutional category, because, among other things, it foresees entrusted functions for the trial of judicial assistants, which I find unacceptable. When I was thinking earlier, when I passed the previous law on the executive procedure, I thought, in analogy, when the Federal Assembly adopted the proposal in 2000, to abolish the right to appeal, but it remains a second remedy, which is an objection. Why should the appeal be lifted? Because a litigation has already been conducted before the court in the first degree, that the party is dissatisfied with the appeal, that the appeal has been resolved before the second-degree court and that the decision has become enforceable. Therefore, it would be excessive, inadmissible and ineffective for the trustees to allow the Institute of Appeal again. So we'd have the same legal thing twice to get rid of it by a second-degree court. That's not effective. I'll draw your attention to one fact. If the first-degree court, in the form of a higher than three judges, is called a KV greater, if it decides on detention, then it can resolve the same court, on a proposal to execute, on the objection that the case does not walk in the district court and that appeals are not made twice and thus delays and prevents the effectiveness of the conduct of the enforcement procedure. I therefore also consider this addendum to be necessary in order to conclude that an order is issued to an official for the conduct of certain actions and to decide on other management issues of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it was cellificial that there was an existing solution left. In that case, the execution procedure would be more effective. However, this will not achieve efficiency. When it comes to the efficiency of the judiciary, I ask the question to those who prepared this proposal – how is the case conducted in Germany for an average of five months, and with us for six and a half years? I ask the question, what happens now that the appeal is filed, how long the appeal procedure will take, because that's what the new lawsuit says, the new procedure, the new delay. That's why I was that same first-degree court that made the decision, whose final execution was, that he had the right and to decide on the objection. That's why I suggest it's celery and effective to no longer protect the debtor's lobby, to protect the trustees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7962	The word has been sent by the people, Zoran Krasic, and then by Natasa Jovanovic. At the same time, I am informing all MPs that they know in due time that Article 81 of Article 4 will also be done tomorrow from 10.00 hours due to the scope of the agenda and the importance of these laws for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7963	The SRS has tried to express a conceptual disagreement with several amendments to these first initial members of the law regarding the law on enforcement. Probably the first 10 amendments concern the principle issue. In fact, there can be a commitment if it came out of some contract and then it's said to be a contractual obligation. The obligation can exist if it's prescribed by law and then it's said to be a legal obligation. The obligation may exist if it is determined by a court ruling. It is, therefore, widely viewed as this so - called condemning judgment, where someone is required to do something or do something. The Implementing Procedure Act regulates the execution of the obligations set out in the judgments. This is the case where the debtor has not voluntarily carried out his obligation as determined by the court decision, but in principle the question arises whether such obligations should be temporarily carried out by the court, whether or not those obligations may be carried out by another authority, since the court has decided as the highest authority in the case and completed the work? Not to open that subject, there are legal systems where judicial judicial judgments are executed by other bodies that are not judicial authorities, not courts. In our country, there is a commitment to the coerced execution of judgments in this civil area by the court in an executive procedure. The state's authority, the court's authority, is always being checked. If it is inevitable for a court ruling to be executed, it is no longer a matter of earlier litigation parties, creditors and debtors. It's just a matter of trustees in the part where he makes his own decision whether to initiate the procedure or not. All that goes on is a matter of an executive court that provides authority and guarantees the authority of the state because of that verdict that was brought in the litigation procedure. If that were not the case, then the question would be rightly asked, and why would someone conduct a litigation, a verdict, if it cannot be carried out. Since the state guarantees that its judicial decisions are being carried out on its territory, a law on enforcement is being passed. This short introduction shows that the appeal is essentially pointless and the right to appeal should not be bound in this situation as a guaranteed right, therefore, that any solution can be handled in any way, but is also an instrument of protection. If a complaint is allowed and the complaint is resolved by a senior authority, a second-degree court, then at the beginning we know that it is lost for several months in the physical dislocation of the case from one building to another building. There's no big uncertainty, because as a debtor, a person who knows, it's lost the case, it's already a court ruling that's been passed, probably six months before they've gotten the conditions to initiate the execution procedure, he knows it's mandatory. There is no violation of any right, if it is said that in the executive procedure there is the possibility of only objecting. Therefore, that the objection is located only on those matters concerning the executive procedure, which are the subject, the means and the method of execution. This is the problem with this law, because it allows for the endless lengthening of the executive procedure and thus raises questions as to why someone was conducting a litigation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7964	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in 2000, when Mr. Petar Jojic was federal justice minister, he with a group of experts did the Law on Executive Procedure and indeed, those solutions were then given in the bill of law. If, starting with this amendment, which he proposed today to amend the proposed law by Minister Stojkovic and this current government, Mr Jojic wanted to follow that path and to keep the solution from this perfect Implementing Procedure Act, which experts led him as SRS minister, we would therefore create an opportunity to regulate the area in a much better way. That's why he asked to be in Article 4. The draft law provides for the implementation of the procedure in the first degree of water and decisions by the judge of the individual, and the complaint is decided by the majority of the three judges of the same court. In the second paragraph of the Decision in the enforcement and security proceedings, the Court shall take the form of a solution or conclusion, and in the third paragraph an order shall be issued to the official for the conduct of certain actions and shall decide on other management issues of the procedure. This amendment is only the beginning of what is the intensity of Serbian radicals, to keep that solution from the law, that is, from the entire area of the executive procedure that he then did as Minister Jojic and you will see the debate on the amendments under way, by the SRS MPs that these are much better solutions than those proposed. Speaking of executions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it is my great pleasure and honor to announce to you that your colleague and vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, became president of the Zemun municipality five minutes ago, and this has been the case since today, and I congratulate her on this election, and I believe all of you, not just the SRS MPs. The municipality, as one of Belgrade's largest municipalities, will once again have a reputation and glory and it was in the period from 1996 to 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7966	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7967	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, in the largest municipality in Nis is Mr. Cirkovic, the president of the municipality, but this is not the place to publish it. Anyway, I congratulate everyone who's been elected president. As regards the Implementing Procedure Act, my main point is that the law has given the possibility to withdraw the procedure until the end of the day and, in addition, at the beginning of the law of the declared obligations of the Court that within three days, it must determine the executive actions and order the parties to carry out and carry out certain obligations in accordance with the executive procedure. In the second delisacon, the Proposer gives authority to the judge that he can stop the execution and that he can refer parties to new litigation proceedings. It is the Institute of Objections to a third party, debtors and the Institute of Appeals, in order to declare the execution inadmissible. Therefore, the current Implementing Procedure Act gives me a greater opportunity to effectively enforce judicial executive judgments. This solution offered by the current promoter, if adopted, in unchanged content, will allow for an inappropriate delay in execution. I therefore advocate that those amendments, which are indeed an expression of professional experience, are, above all, lawyers, judges, legal experts, as well as the parties themselves, who have faced in their proceedings with the inability to collect their claims from established judicial executions. The law introduces an institute that does not belong in an executive procedure, such as in Article 7, where an executive judge has the possibility to make it possible, under the expiry of all the laws of the prescribed time limits, to allow the prosecutor to submit another motion for protection of legality. What does that mean? Each party in the proceedings under the Law on the Procedural Procedure shall have the opportunity to declare an emergency legal remedy. The party may initiate by means of a Republic prosecutor to apply for the protection of legality within three months of the date on which more regular legal treatment i.e. The appeal could not be refuted. In this case, the law gives the possibility, as proposed by the Government and by the Minister, that the Executive Judge, after nine years and eleven months, refer the case to a prosecutor whose deadlines have expired in accordance with the Law on the Prosecution to raise a claim for the protection of legality. This really penetrates the legal system, makes it illogical, makes it contradictory and contradictory and gives authority to an executive judge who does not have any other party in the proceedings, or any other legal entity. This suggests that this law is made up in haste, that it represents only one curtain as a front to document or show Serbian citizens that the government is doing something. The interests of Serbian citizens were not ultimately taken into account. Such a law will disrupt the relationship between citizens in Serbia, by losing friends, because it will lend him money without being able to collect it on a regular and regular basis. This also violates the rights guaranteed by European standards, which is the right to a timely trial. This means that whoever has the right, that right must be exercised through the competent court in good time and without undue delay. I will declare myself on certain solutions under this law, i.e. from the draft law during the debate, but I believe that amendments should be supported, in particular by those who are well-intentioned, who go in order to preserve the objective and purpose of adopting this law, which is a timely, comprehensive and economic protection of the rights of citizens established by judicial judgments without the possibility of abuse of procedural rights. I therefore advocate that the amendment we are currently discussing has been fully adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7968	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7969	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that Article 5 be deleted in Article 5, which says: 'The procedure is contrary to the provisions of Article 1 and Article 2, and is considered to be a delay in proceedings by judges in terms of the provisions of the Law on Judges. ''We have passed a set of laws on judges, which, among other things, define the criminal provisions, that is, the conditions for the resolution of individual judges who are unconsciously and unequivocally doing their work. In this regard, another amendment has been proposed by the representatives of the SRS, which is compatible with my proposal, by me proposing that this position be deleted, and they want to correct this position within the meaning of the Law on Judges. Why do I feel that the amendment I have proposed should first and foremost be adopted? Because the judges put themselves in an unequal position. A judge who delays proceedings in criminal proceedings or in litigation does not have such a threatened sanction, so that this position puts the judges in an unequal position. Soon, if this law is passed, you will not have a judge who will accept to judge in the executive procedure, or to carry out and decide on executive matter, because it provides for different conditions for the resolution and determination of responsibilities for unprofessional and unconscious work in relation to judges in other judicial matters. That is why I believe that this article is too high, and unless it is adopted in the way I have suggested, I, in that sense, support the next amendment relating to the same attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7970	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Minister of Justice has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7971	The government accepts this amendment because it considers it more precise than just a solution to the law. If it were general, so let them rebel, this is more precisely, so the government accepts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7972	Do you still want a word? Probably not. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the SRS Group, the amendment to Article 6(2) was submitted by Ms Verica Radet, but as you heard, she could not attend the meeting because she had to attend Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic's election as president of the Zemun municipality, so she asked me to explain this amendment instead. The purpose of this amendment is to specify the provision laid down in the draft law, as Article 6 regulates the order of conduct and order of settlement of creditors in the executive procedure and says that the court is obliged to take cases in order to receive them, unless the nature of the claim or special circumstances requires otherwise. Article 2 - several executive creditors, who make their financial claims to the same executive debtor and on the same enforcement case, shall be placed in the order which they have acquired the right to settle from that case, except in cases where the law otherwise lays down. The SRS proposal is to add, after saying, "the order in which they have acquired the right", the words "by day and hours of handing over the proposal for an execution permit". Why? Because the establishment of rights, i.e. the acquisition of rights, refers to a previous procedure. Whether it will be a criminal procedure, whether it will be a litigation procedure, the procedure acquires the right, and when we talk about the exercise, or the exercise of a right, we need to specify this, in order to know that from the day of the application for forced enforcement, or for permission to execute, the order of the trustee's settlement is from that moment on. In order not to get into a situation where the trustee who is exercising his first and then waiting for a certain period of time to submit a proposal for an execution permit, while the second, who after that has exercised his right in a litigation procedure, immediately after the lawfulness and enforcement of the verdict, submits a proposal for forced enforcement, that such a trustee enters the situation that, if he first handed over the exercise permit, in the order of the exercise of that fundamental right, he is in second place and that he waits for the person who later submitted the application for settlement, to settle before him. This isn't good. In practice, this attitude, if it remains, will surely lead to different courts interpreting these provisions differently. This will lead to legal uncertainty and this amendment, as well as the previous one, has nothing to do with the concept of the law and I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7974	Petar Jojic, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS is to be accepted because in practice it is shown, if the payment is by means of money claims and if the trustee has filed a request for forced execution, at 8:00 p.m. when the court works, it is not the same if the other trustee submitted the request at 14.00 p.m. It is important here, as counterpart Sarovic said, in that order – but the fiction of absolute accuracy, which predicted even Roman law, should be respected. It doesn't matter who submitted the proposal first. Therefore, it is necessary to mark when a proposal for an emergency execution is received, day and hour, but it is an important time. When it comes to entering a mortgage in a land book, in order to respect the fiction of absolute accuracy with the data entered in the land books, the mortgages are recorded, day and hour, so that it is not the other order and the one who submitted the last request for registration or a proposal for forced execution, that it has no priority, and not the one who first submitted the proposal for forced execution. Therefore, in addition to the day, it is necessary and mandatory to specify the time when the court receives a proposal for an emergency execution, it must highlight the day, month, year, but also the time when it has received the subject for coercion in order to respect the order of settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7976	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bosko Ristic and Bozidar Koprivica submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer has not adopted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers these amendments to be legally possible. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7977	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Justice Minister Stojkovic is not here when we explain these amendments, because this is a flagrant way of violating the legal system in Serbia. For what? Because the promoter predicted that the executive judge was the highest court in this country. Because he has the right to challenge and question any judicial verdict under which the municipal court, the district court, the Supreme Court, says, when the executive judge in the proceedings suspects that the judicial and executive judgment is based on the right, or the circumstances which are not in the disposition of the parties, that he is opposed to the mandatory regulations, and such a procedure had his entire hierarchy of decision, from the municipal to the Supreme Court. This means that a judge of the executive court, as a rule of the municipal court, can question such a verdict and initiate proceedings before the competent prosecutor, to raise a claim for the protection of legality. I would like to remind the public, above all professionally, of my fellow lawyers who are involved in legal affairs and represent the courts, that there is a subjective and objective deadline for raising legal requirements, i.e. to launch emergency legal medicines. In a concrete case, the Law on the Prosecution says that the competent prosecutor is able to raise a claim for the protection of legality within three months of the time when the verdict could no longer be refuted by regular legal remedies. Any judicial verdict may be carried out within 10 years. After 10 years, the right to execute is out of date. If, on the basis of such a verdict on the tenth year of the 11th month, a month before the end of the 10 years, the Executive Judge, under this provision, would have the right to stop the execution and initiate the procedure for the declaration of an emergency legal remedy. This means that the party would lose the opportunity to collect its claim established by a judicial verdict. On the other hand, this law is in direct contrast with a member of the Law on a litigation procedure that defines deadlines on the basis of which a claim for protection of legality can be declared. Unless I'm a Republican prosecutor, he has the ability to extend the deadline legally, for his own obligation to raise a claim, it's not clear on the basis of which an executive judge is given the right to extend the legal deadlines. From Roman law through history, the possibility of an extension of the legal deadlines is unknown. Legal deadlines only change by amending the law, and here you have legal authority, where a judge individual can change the legal deadlines according to his own authority. This introduces complete legal uncertainty and shows that the expert group that has been doing this has not paid enough attention. I'm not gonna say they're unprofessional, but they've been working fast and they haven't seen all the dangers and all the traps they've set for themselves here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7978	The word has a People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7979	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I suggested that Article 7. The Implementing Procedure Act shall be amended by eradicating Article 2 and Article 3. I have to present it to you, so I'm going to quote Section 2 and Section 3. If the claim is set out in an executive or credible correction contrary to the mandatory rules, the Executive Court will stop by making a decision in the proposal and initiate a procedure for the protection of legality with the Republic of Public Prosecutor. If the Republic Public Prosecutor does not initiate the legal proceedings within three months of the adoption of the initiative, the enforcement procedure will continue, and if the proceedings are initiated, the delay will continue until a decision on the application for the protection of legality is reached. I've suggested that these attitudes should be abolished and deleted. This improves the text of the law, since public interest and public order are already protected by the Law on a litigation procedure, i.e. Article 3(3). Law on litigation. The introduction of public interest and public order, in the proposal for this law, would allow for a number of abuses of the executive debtor, which would be calculated only on the lengthening of proceedings and the intentions of the debtors to defuse and prevent execution. So, even if this ten-year deadline had passed, which is the general limitation period of enforcement of the judicial verdicts, as Mr Ristic spoke of, this would directly, without need, be postponed directly to the harm of the creditors and therefore I appeal to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to adopt my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7980	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. (Bosko Ristic, from the post: It would be good if the minister were there. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7981	Well, if we were calling someone, I wouldn't just invite the minister, he's a man for days with us and he's working and he said this proposal was done by a working group, but there were two MPs in that task force, Gašo Knezevic and Dragore Hiber, and don't just look at it unilaterally. They even published a book, made some contributions due to the remarkable contribution of how to mutilate the law of Peter Jojic, because otherwise it cannot be described what was done. Well, yeah, you even got proof that this group was working. So, don't just mention Minister Stojkovic, he just accepted what science wrote. The domains of our science are in our long-known last names - Vodnelic, Hiber, Knezevic, Begovic, this is the channel through which donations for such things go. Now, my predecessors have described why these two members and these two attitudes must not be in this law, but from the point of view of violating the principle of judicial justice. However, below the words - "I" is something that is pointless, which should not be allowed by a professor. You see, here it is said - if the claim is specified in an executive or a credible credential. And then these same experts in Article 37 state what they are credible documents. Well, read it, you'll see it's a check and a check. Now I'm asking the question -- how on the basis of one note, will one executive judge determine that this is contrary to mandatory regulations? He takes a man's check, he looks at it, he sees the check, and now he has to conclude that it's contrary to forced regulations. A credible correction does not show the basis for the claim, but it proves that there is a monetary claim. At least that's how it's been so far. I guess that's how it is now. I think it's because they wrote it in article 37. Well, besides these objective, subjective deadlines, etc. The real question is - who is it that can carry out an additional review of the judicial verdict, because the claim in the executive order is also defined here in Article 31. We have an intervention of more lecturing logic than is essential, but Article 31 describes exactly what executive documents are, based on which they are approved for execution. When the court approves the execution, he only seeks proof that the document has become enforceable, and in that second part of the proposal only checks whether the funds, forms and method of settlement of the claim are similar. Now, in that capacity of the Executive Judge, to observe the way, the means and the extent of the execution, and whether that is in accordance with the executive order, the Executive Judge may suggest to the prosecutor to initiate a procedure in which a judicial verdict is to be reassessed. The basic principles of justice prohibit this kind of intervention, since then it would practically mean that we are in the executive process on the ground of another, possibly repeated means called an emergency legal remedy and a claim for the protection of legality. If it's from the professor, it's really a lot of teachers. It's really a lot of teachers, because they obviously don't know what justice means. They don't know what justice means or how it's called into question the justice of a verdict. It cannot be called into question by a judge - an individual to mildly suggest, and yet, since you know for a fact that this execution of a statute of limitations for ten years, and during that period all possible deadlines for emergency legal remedies have expired, practically someone extends the possibility of using someone else or repeating a previously used legal remedy such as a requirement to protect legality. Something like this shouldn't appear because the court can't order the use of an emergency legal remedy. He can't. This is contrary to the principles on which all the provisions of the Constitution on constitutionality and legality are based. You have a whole chapter in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that says constitutionality and legality. This one sentence these two attitudes deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7982	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here is the word of the Messenger of the people, Marko Krstin, and Petar Jojic, and Bosko Ristić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7983	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think he should be a lawyer, so I agree with this amendment. The existence of accreditation of a judicial verdict in a legal procedure is inadmissible. Basically, because every constitutional system, every regulated state, such as Serbia, knows enforcement - court decisions and judicial decisions are executed without exception. Thus, this violates the judicial principle, i.e. the constitutional principle of enforceability of judicial decisions. On the other hand, we also violate the principle of urgency of the executive procedure, which speaks of the inconsistency of the law in general, because if we define the urgency of the procedure as the principle of Article 5, then we say that the deadlines of the court determine the maximum of three days, and if the party does not take action within three days, it loses the right to take action. So, it's a prelude to take the store. We gave the public prosecutor, on the other hand, no less than three months to delay the enforcement procedure which is urgent, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we gave the judge in the executive court the right to assess - not whether the decision is in accordance with the legal system, if it is judicial, but whether the claim is contrary to the mandatory regulations. I will note - that something would happen to an executive document that is subject to first-degree, second-degree procedure and revision. And, more, a request for protection of legality. If, however, the judge of the municipal court has the right to verify all this, then we also derrogate the hierarchy of the judicial system. I believe that this amendment is fully justified and that it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7984	Thank you. Here's a word from the minister of justice, Mr. Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7985	The government accepts these arguments and accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7986	I guess no one's answering for a word anymore. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this Article 8 aims to regulate the Law on Executive Procedure in a much more precise way. It may seem to you, Mr. Minister, that five views from your proposed member, the amendment that I have proposed on behalf of the SRS, have been completely deleted here -- who will determine the extent of enforcement and security if my amendment is to be read, and only this remains in Article 8, which, by amendment, we suggest that "implementation for the achievement of the monetary claim and security of such a claim will be determined and implemented to the extent necessary for the settlement, i.e. the security of that claim". So it may seem to you that the extent of execution and security is unsettled, because you have named your proposal in what cases and when, under what circumstances, the court determines the execution, or security. However, if you carefully look at the context of all the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs, you will see that all the other views of Article 8 aside from this, which does not leave an alternative, which I have suggested to you, but rather says that the execution to achieve the monetary demand and security of such a claim, not - or, as it stands with you, all other views are contained in other articles through the full text of the laws proposed by the SRS MPs. In fact, it is specified that the execution must be within the scope that is determined. So if that's two, three or five million, it's got to be that much, and it's going to provide funds for execution in that range. There is no possibility or, and all of this under what circumstances and when the court does so, we have contained it in other members of the law and we believe that you should accept this amendment, in order to make the context of all that, and you have already accepted some of the amendments proposed by the Serbian radicals, followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7988	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the necessary interventions should be carried out when it comes to the scope of enforcement and security as provided for in Article 8 of the bill. This bill, i.e. this provision in Article 8 directly protects the debt lobby, not the trustee. The right should be given to the trustee to propose to the court and to choose over which asset the debtor is most similar, most efficient and fastest to fully make the payment of the debt. If this is a right to the debtor, the debtor will always be in a position to abuse this right and to go to lengthy proceedings. Personally, if someone was to be given the right to him to propose to the court to carry out a list, an estimate and a sale of payment cases by the debtors, then that right should be given first and foremost to the trustee. For example, the debtor has a Mercedes, and he's got a fiche. If the trustee has suggested that cash claims be charged by a list, sale and assessment of the debtor's passenger car Mercedes, the debtor with the proposal comes before the court and says – please, I suggest that the execution and execution be carried out at the means of execution, because I have a passenger car. Look at the situation and when the charge will be made. Therefore, I think that in this case we should seek a change in the list of cases and that the right should be given to the trustee.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7990	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milan Stevović submitted to the 10th Amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to a concrete explanation of the amendments I've submitted, I'd like to say a few things. A set of law on justice is a truly vital set of laws. In doing so, the law on enforcement may have been the most important law and free of you were the laws on judges, on the High Council of Justice, on the regulation of courts, on material law unless this law on the executive procedure works. Therefore, after a judicial executive ruling comes the procedure of enforcement. We are discussing here a law with more procedural character, but it also has certain provisions of material law. For these reasons, I draw attention to the fact that a member of the 10th member relating to the delivery system is in the executive procedure. That article states: "The delivery of the executive procedure is accordingly subject to the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, if this law is not otherwise laid down." Since this is a procedural law, this is a very broad formulation and needs to be narrowed down. I therefore proposed that Article 10 of the amendment be amended and that it reads: "The rules on the personal delivery of the Law on Procedural Procedure only delivers a solution to the proposal for enforcement and a solution to the enforcement solution. All other deliveries are made through the court's notice table." This makes delivery seem to be faster, more efficient and prevents possible abuses in personal acquaintances between suppliers and debtors to whom submissions should be delivered. The third position of this amendment reads: "Deliverment from Article 1 in the area of court shall be carried out through staff in court". It's a direct court personal delivery. I believe that this amendment has nothing to do with the concept that the proposer has taken, and that in a much better and more comprehensive way, this matter is regulated. To say that in the executive procedure, the procedural law applies the provisions of the second procedural law, which is the law that we discussed yesterday, the litigation procedure, is a little irrelevant, no justification, so I ask that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7992	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has proposed a number of amendments and additions to this law in order to improve the text of the proposed law or to retain existing solutions under the applicable Implementing Procedure Act. When it comes to delivery, it would be acceptable for the proposing only in the content of this norm to propose that the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure be applied for delivery in the executive procedure, but if this law is not otherwise laid down by law or by other law, and that is what Mr Stevovic said, as we discussed yesterday the law on litigation today. The promoter is probably referring to a new body that will be formed and established for the delivery of writing by the courts and other state bodies. I think this should not be accepted and should be left out – if this law is not different. It is more specifically proposed in this amendment, so I ask you to consider accepting the SRS amendment because it is consistent and effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7994	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is one of the laws that the SRS could accept on condition that the amendments it has submitted to this law were accepted, with a total of 51. One of those amendments was submitted by me, and that's on Article 12 of this law, which regulates legal medicines. I'm just going to say that according to the proposal of this law, a legal remedy is intended to be a complaint and a complaint. My amendment to Article 12 reads: "Agreement adopted in the first degree can be objected unless this law provides that an objection is not allowed. The objection may be made within three days of the date of delivery of the solution. The objection does not delay the execution, unless this law provides otherwise. The decision taken after the complaint is legal. There is no place against the conclusion of a legal remedy." Mr. Minister, you are probably aware that the majority of Serbian citizens have a grudge over the efficiency of the court right in the executive procedure. I don't go into court corruption, it's probably individual cases, it's something that's less, and the majority of judges perform their judicial functions with honor and honor. However, the executive procedure is the last chance and hope for a large number of Serbian citizens to exercise some of their rights, which they may have acquired in a litigation process. The SRS considers that the concept should not allow an appeal in the executive procedure, for the reason that it leaves the possibility to extend and carry out a long procedure in order to obtain its rights, i.e. to realise its claims. A large number of court rulings under a litigation procedure do not even have to go into enforcement because I believe that a large number of parties in the litigation process accept the execution of their obligations voluntarily and in this case there is no enforcement procedure. If a particular party has not accepted to carry out its obligation on a voluntary basis, it shall, of course, initiate and conduct the enforcement procedure. We believe that the Institute of Appeal should not be present at all in the executive procedure, because it would certainly leave the possibility of delaying the process. The SRS is an effective and precise enforcement of its judicial obligations, i.e. protecting Serbian citizens through court as a special body of government. I believe that this amendment, as well as the other amendments to the SRS, will be accepted and will then be given one quality law on the executive procedure. I think that a certain number of institutes and the notion of an executive trustee and an executive debtor actually leads to a difference, as is said in this bill, between the perpetrator and the trustee in the bond law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7996	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7997	I'll be very brief. It's about legal drugs. I think the promoter has seen one lack of procedure so far, but for this lack, it is not an existing solution, but a certain case-law that has derivated a good legal solution. Therefore, the SRS advocates that there is no complaint as a legal remedy. That I must, practically, explain what it means. Therefore, following the adoption of the enforcement decision, the right to object was left to the party within a specified time limit. The party submits the complaint and thereafter decides by the majority of the three judges. The practice has shown that when the case is received in court, this is being seduced, the seal is being stamped, the execution clause is being placed and delivered to the opposite party. That's what administrations do, and in very few cases, executive judges do. It is only when an objection to such a adopted execution solution is made, that the bigger one needs to be resolved. The council, however, does not have a session, as a rule, but only does so by an individual judge, or an executive judge. Those two judges when you ask if they've decided on it and that, in most cases, they're shoulder-to-shoulder, which means they don't know anything about that execution. In order to avoid this, the Proposer has proposed introducing an appeal, but thereby delaying this procedure. The issue could only be resolved with one add-on, which is that there is a right to object, but that the councils must attend the parties. This would solve the problem and the judicial procedure would be effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7998	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u7999	Article 13. The bill is closely linked to Article 12. Since the Committee on Justice and the Government did not accept the amendment to Article 12, it is likely that the minister or amendment to Article 13 will not accept that Article 13 is deleted, as I suggested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I must say that I did not work in court, especially in my work, as a graduate lawyer, a lot of meetings with the executive procedure, with judges who worked in the executive procedure and according to their examination and consideration of other judges and the aspirations of judges, in the schedule of performing judicial functions at the beginning of the year, to avoid that part of the work in municipal courts, I came to the conclusion, as they did, that this is the most difficult part of the work under the jurisdiction of municipal courts, as it is indeed and the local authority for executions. Thousands of cases in execution, with the urge of the debtors not to be executed and the use of various means so as not to implement a adopted solution by the court. Now, instead of this principle of urgency in the executive procedure to be represented in all the provisions of this law, with the provision of Articles 12 and 13 and other provisions, essentially, here this principle is trampled and going in the opposite direction. Instead of objecting and the three major judges of the municipal court, a complaint is now being brought as a means, and a second-degree court decides on the appeal. What are we going to have in the field now, in the functioning of the executive procedure? The complaints lodged, the executive cases are sent to district courts, buried district courts with complaints in the executive procedure, time triples, and so is the long executive procedure. The purpose of this law is not to speed up enforcement, and the primary objective of any judicial procedure is to bring about enforcement by judicial judgment of a particular matter. The bottom line is that a party who has exercised its right in a court procedure, this right will be very difficult to achieve, or often, and never will. Over time, there have been many circumstances, with the abuse of debtors, with now and the possibilities provided for by this Article 13 and other provisions of the law, that the appeal delays the proceedings. Even the final position of Article 13, even a solution adopted in implementing the execution is subject to appeal, a complaint may be made. This automatically means, although a solution to the execution by the court has been reached, there has been no appeal for a solution to the execution, and it is a solution to the execution procedure itself, then a huge delay, again in the district court, and the decision of the three major judges from the district court is pending. Is this issue, in addition to a judicial executive decision, supposed to be so regulated and, imagine, with this provision, the district court and the larger three judges? I believe that it should be respected, by the Committee and the Government, by the amendment and by Article 12, in particular by Article 13 which follows, and that the procedure for the execution itself should be maintained in relation to any objection by the debtors, to retain the existing solutions which have somewhat yielded results in the implementation of these several years, but it seems that these provisions will restore the situation as it was several years ago, that even a slightly larger municipal court will have four, five or six thousand cases in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8000	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8001	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, by introducing the Institute of Appeal as a legal remedy, instead, were sufficient to object, because, as I said, both our MPs and colleagues from other parties were told earlier about the subject of coercion. We had a judicial decision, it went even once to the district court, we had a situation when a number of cases went to the audit court and even the audit solved the disputed relationship. I thought there was no place of appeal in the executive procedure, because there was enough objection and that the objections were resolved, first of all, by sworn judges, by three judges of the same court. So, the greater court of the same court. I point out that the illusion is a complaint when it's said, does not retain execution. So where it's prescribed, because it's in fact retaining, the case with the files is delivered to a higher court of second degree. So it's being delivered to him for consideration. It indicates that in a number of cases, the appeal is not even prescribed to delay the execution, but it is therefore prescribed that in certain cases the proceedings continue, but in the lawfulness of the solution, rather than the enforcement of the solution, which means that the appeal in practice retains enforcement. So, where it's not even prescribed. We Serbian radicals believe that this would make the executive procedure more effective, and this way, the executive procedure will extend to unlimited time and thus protect the debt lobby. Let's stop all obstacles to protecting the debtor at all costs, protect the rights of one trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8002	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8003	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 14. The law on the executive procedure reads, "Article 14 is deleted." In fact, Article 14 is very short and already in the amendments to Article 12, i.e. Article 13, it is explained why we consider the appeal as a legal remedy unnecessary in the executive procedure, and I will read to you Article 14 as it is brief and it is said: "The appeal is decided by the Court of Justice, except in the case referred to in Articles 19, paragraph 1 and 2 of this Act". Now that you reach Article 19, paragraphs 1 and 2 say, paragraph 1 that a first-degree court may, if it considers that an appeal by an executive debtor has been issued against the decision to execute within, adopt, abolish the execution solution, suspend the solution in whole or in part and lift the actions carried out. Article 2 says - in the same way, the first-degree court may also act on a complaint issued at the expiry of the deadline within the meaning of Article 17 of this Act, so if you retain Article 14, then you must go to Article 19. He says the following, exclusively for the reasons provided for in Article 15(8) of this Act, an executive debtor may declare a complaint against the execution resolution and at the end of the time limit for appeal until the execution is carried out. It is said here in Article 19 that deadlines are prescribed in Article 17, but they are not, as it can only be seen that the appeal can be filed at the expiry of the deadline. Now this Article 17 points us to Article 15(8). Article 15 has the title - reasons for the complaint. Therefore, the reasons for the deadlines are stated, but I will read you point 8) where it is said that, if the claim had ceased on the basis of the fact that the decision had taken place after the execution, but at the time when it was executed, the debtor could not point out in the procedure from which the executive document was initiated, or if the claim had ceased on the basis of the fact that it had taken place after the settlement was concluded. This Article 14 is very short and simply one sentence caused that tomorrow whoever is working under this law must walk on various members, i.e. about Article 14, and otherwise the Institute of Appeal as a legal remedy, and already my colleagues have explained to the amendments to Articles 12 and 13, so I only have so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8004	Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8005	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15. The law on criminal proceedings where the word "appeal" should be replaced by the word " Objection." I believe that an existing solution to the current law should be maintained, because the existing law, the appeal, was not allowed, but merely an objection. In order to protect its rights in the executive procedure, the debtor may provide evidence which he considers to be relevant to him. This issue of the existing law solves the existing law in a comprehensive manner and in a practical way, it regulates that the debtor of the enforcement solution can only be completely and partly refuted by an objection, and the complaint in the executive procedure should be an exclusive remedy. Therefore, against the enforcement solution, thus denying and speeding up the enforcement process. I hope you adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8006	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8007	The amendment submitted by MP Momir Markovic in front of the SRS parliamentary group is absolutely acceptable, because it is effective and relies on the previous amendments, so we need to adopt this amendment and stay with the proposal and propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment, because it speeds up the enforcement process, and will not miss the lengthening of the procedure and will not allow debtors to manipulate and thus avoid and delay the execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8008	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this speaker has been heard many times by the SRS MPs that, as far as legal remedies are concerned, we are in the process of enforcement and security against appeal, and I point out some reasonable reasons for the objection. An amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group on Article 17. The draft law, therefore, is said to be made exclusively for the reasons provided for in Article 15(8) of this Act, the executive debtor may declare an appeal against the enforcement decision and after the expiry of the appeal period, therefore, until the enforcement is carried out. Amendment to the provisions of Article 17. The bill says that article 17 is deleted, and for what? I've already stated that we are in the SRS against the existence of a legal remedy, a complaint in the executive procedure. In this case, and specifically related to the amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law, because an appeal is allowed and after the expiry of the deadline laid down in Article 12(4). The draft law, since the provisions of this article provide that complaints and objections may be made in a statement within three days of the date of delivery of the solution. However, the reasons for the complaint provided for in Article 15 are taxed, inter alia, in Article 15. The draft law provides that if the claim has ceased on the basis of the fact that the decision has taken place after or before it has been implemented and, inter alia, in the event of a settlement. It is now discussed according to the provisions of Article 15. The draft law, as well as in the principle of the existence of an appeal as an institute, i.e. a legal remedy in the executive procedure, where we were in the SRS to object to the solution to be made on the basis of a credible document and against the solution to be made in the shortened procedure, as this provides sufficient legal certainty and protection of the interests of the participants in the executive procedure. The court shall be referred to a settlement between the participants in the procedure, i.e. the executive trustee and the executive debtor. Alignment, especially if it is administrative alignment, can also be delivered under official duty, so that it is excessive to lodge an appeal as a legal remedy. As regards the fulfilment of the provision of Article 15(8) of this Bill, other facts may be established and without appeal by the participants. There's no need to say legal medicine. This before protects the debtor in the process, contrary to the needs of a more effective judiciary and the possible intention of the promoter, which is highlighted in the light of the proposal for this law. In this way, the enforcement procedure does not become more effective, contrary to the debtor in the enforcement proceedings, it is possible to extend this procedure indefinitely. In addition, only the statement of appeal, i.e. the right of the participants to the appeal, is problematic and unnecessary. This creates conditions for the conduct of a new case, i.e. a new procedure. With the existence and exercise of the right to appeal, i.e. the investment of the legal remedy, the participant in the proceedings can achieve his intention to delay the dispute, and will in any case be on the part of the executive debtor to prevent the execution of the court's solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, ultimately, the solution from Article 12 of this bill in any case violates legal certainty.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8010	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Bosko Ristic has tabled an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for an executive procedure law, which regulates the question of the answer to the appeal. Namely, it is provided for this member that the Executive Trustee may give an answer within three days to the appeal and that, following receipt of the reply to the appeal, the first-degree court may, if it deems it necessary, appoint a hearing to discuss the appeal. This amendment provides for Article 3 to be deleted and there is no possibility for the court to discuss the appeal. I believe that in this way an unnecessary enforcement procedure is delayed, the first-degree court is able to resolve if there are conditions under appeal, if he cannot deliver by appeal, if there is no appeal he can deliver to the second-degree court. So this is just one way of stalling the process and it's completely unnecessary for this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8012	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are now in a situation that the provisions of this law in some parts are contradictory to other provisions of the law. You will now notice only if you look at the provisions of Article 18, which are prescribed in the second position, as the previous speaker of his colleagues said, at the receipt of a reply to the appeal or at the expiry of the deadline for the response, the first-degree court, if it assesses the necessary appointment, will hold a hearing to discuss the appeal. Now what? How can a first-degree court deal with a matter of appeal? Who's got this? Maybe a NGO or a Maurice Massari, who was a protagonist for this. What will the judges now say, who will decide this case on such cases? You are speaking there in the proposal should allow appeal and second-degreeness, and if such a recommendation by the Council of Europe is marked R 95/5, which speaks of respecting certain provisions concerning the resolution of complaints, in the second degree, ladies and gentlemen, how now to give authority to the first-degree court. This is where we rule out, and this is where we give him the right to decide his appeal. That doesn't make any legal sense. There is no legal logic that this position in this part can be debated at all and that this remains in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8014	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8015	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that 90% of the provisions of this law have been prescribed from that law which is applicable to criminal proceedings. However, I believe it is necessary, in a concrete case, to retain an existing solution, because it is more effective and more effective and therefore only two sentences, that this amendment is legally possible, as the Legislative Committee says, and on the other hand, the solution in the existing law is absolutely effective in relation to the efficiency of the proceedings and the exercise of citizens' rights before the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8016	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment consists in detailing and clarifying the position of Article 2 19. It states that, in the same way, the first-degree court may act on a complaint issued at the expiry of the deadline within the meaning of Article 17 of this Act. The deadline for appeal within the meaning of Article 17 has not expired, it is a timely appeal, only in Article 17 is provided when it is exceptionally possible to declare outside the deadline specified in the previous article. That is why the member is scheduled to specify this position and it should read - the first-degree court may also act on a complaint made under Article 17 of this Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8018	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proponents did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment, with the correction possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8019	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has proposed this amendment to the National Assembly, and that amendment has been submitted by MP Stamenkovic. We believe this amendment should be accepted. On the other hand, in this article, an existing solution should be maintained primarily, as this solution is more acceptable because of the efficiency of the procedure and the exercise of citizens' rights to which I would no longer like to give reasons when it comes to the part relating to the complaint.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8020	Anyone else want a word? MP Momir Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8021	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think this amendment should be adopted. However, I did not go out for this, but I came out to tell you, to tell the Serbian citizens that Serbian radicals from Zemun and Surcin of these two victories that we won yesterday and today are giving to the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8022	Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Igor Becic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8023	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, which reads: 'The Court of First Instance will reject an untimely, incomplete or illicit appeal. The Court of First Instance shall, on appeal issued for reasons of incompetence, if deemed to have been established, put out of force its decision, lift the actions carried out and submit a proposal for the enforcement of the competent court. '"I had the amendment to replace the word "appeal" with the word "complain," because I believe it is more correct and effective. It is necessary to retain the solutions set out in the applicable Implementing Procedure Act, as the provisions of the Law on the litigation procedure are fully applied during the enforcement procedure, so it is appropriate to lay down what is already prescribed, i.e. by means of a legal remedy, in the manner in which it is decided in the litigation procedure. This is about an important procedural law whose provisions must be clear and unambiguous in order not to cause a misunderstanding in those who apply them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8024	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8025	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 21 refers to the appeal procedure against an enforcement solution on the basis of a credible ID. In Article 37. The draft law sets out the authentic documents which this law accepts and implies, and under point 1 above, a note and a return check. Article 21 The draft law shall explain the procedure to be carried out when the executive debtor objects to a solution to the execution. However, there is no special note and check with protest as a credible document, i.e. the procedure to be carried out in that case, and we believe that these documents should be singled out separately and in particular explain the procedure to be carried out in the event of a protest under these documents. We believe that if an executive debtor puts a protest on the note and a check with a protest, that the protest should be considered an objection and proceed as if an objection had been made. That is why we believe that Article 21 should be extended and we have foreseen this by our amendment, to insert Article 4 before the existing 4th position, which would define the procedure in the event that the executive debtor puts a protest on the solution, where a note and a check with a protest appear as a credible document.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8026	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8027	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Dragan Colic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to Article 22, and I think this is also one of the amendments that must be adopted. In fact, above Article 22, there is a very strange title – Conditions for the initiation of a litigation or other procedure. Why should the Implementing Procedure Act define the conditions for the initiation of a litigation or other procedure. Previously on the agenda, we had the Law on a litigation procedure where we defined the conditions to initiate the litigation procedure. This is absolutely no place in this law. The second thing, although it is formally seeking to speed up, both the litigation and the enforcement proceedings, is given to Article 22 by discretionary powers of the court to stop the execution in certain cases and to deny the debtor the right to appeal. It says Article 22 that an executive debtor has the right to establish some fact relating to the claim itself, and among the parties is disputed, I guess any fact has previously been disputed, but it has been done by an indisputable, judicial, executive, judicial verdict, on the basis of which this execution is sought. Why should we, in the executive procedure, determine the facts of the claim itself? It's already been done in a litigation procedure. Article 3 – The Court may, during the whole proceedings to determine the fact relating to the claim itself, and, if deemed necessary among the parties, the dispute may, by means of a decision of the Executive Officer to initiate litigation or other proceedings for the inadmissibility of enforcement within 15 days of the delivery of the solution. This gives the court the possibility that, in certain cases, when, on the basis of its discretionary authority, it is estimated that it is celery, it says, that you have an executive verdict, but we will stop here and we will instruct a few debtors to initiate litigation or other proceedings. It continues even worse – upon a proposal from the Executive Officer, the court may postpone the execution under the conditions laid down in Article 3. So, no matter what the debtor has already conducted one litigation procedure that may have lasted 10 years, which has passed the second-degree and possibly third-degree phase, the audit has passed, the application for protection of the legality, the decision of the district court, and then, once again, when the trustee wants to make his claim finally come true, you tell him – no, you will wait for another litigation procedure, because the executive debtor feels that this is not sufficiently discussed. Finally, the fifth position is totally scandalous and says no appeal can be made against the 3rd article's ruling. It is inadmissible that someone who has passed three court cases before and who has a judicial verdict in an executive procedure, in which only needs to be provided as quickly and as painlessly as possible with the execution of this court ruling, you simply say - no, you can't, we're going to a new lawsuit, and you don't even have the right to appeal against this decision. There's obviously been some mistake here. This Article 22. The Implementing Procedure Act was not possible to fix in any other way than to propose its erasure. We did it. If you want us to have some concept in the executive procedure, then it is absolutely necessary to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8028	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8029	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the return of all institutes that protect debtors from the 1978 Executive Procedure Act and the introduction of institutes to protect debtors and debt lobbys cannot be accepted and this leads to a delay in proceedings. The proposal for the provisions of this Article shall be contrary to all provisions and to the purpose of the executive procedure. That's unacceptable because he's bringing the parties back in court. They're pushed into a new lawsuit and exposed to new costs, and that's unnecessary, and the solution to the proposal is even more unfavourable for the trustee because it gives the debtor more rights. It allows the debtor to press charges even if the court did not refer him to a lawsuit. Therefore, the debtor receives a proposal to execute, immediately initiates a lawsuit and the proceedings are terminated, but it is a disaster that this provision is contrary to Article 22(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So this isn't a constitutional category. Now what? We are again in the situation that the provisions and individual members of this law are contrary to the other provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act, which is proposed. There's no right to appeal here. Now what? Here, the legislator asks only to adopt this bill to revive the new appeal institute and that the debtor could always use the right to appeal, but when the debtor starts an imaginary lawsuit, and designed to delay and defuse the execution, the legislator now says - please, we interrupt the case. Why stop the lawsuit? Why stop the execution? There's no room to stop with the execution of gentlemen. Here's why. If the case is conducted for five or six years, if there is an executive verdict, which contains in the sentence the adoption of the claim, and if it has been confirmed by the second-degree court, if the audit court has confirmed the decision, what more has the executive judge and what has more debtors to sue, to open new litigations and to push the debtor back to the costs, and the case lasts on average in Serbia for up to six and a half years, and in Germany it only takes five months. Now what? We've got a new lawsuit, we've got a new six years, and citizens can't exercise their rights. So I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8030	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I support this amendment. Indeed, Article 22, as stated in the draft law opens the possibility that certain facts that should have been discussed during the litigation procedure and which should be established by a judicial verdict, are reopened in the course of the executive procedure and that the debtor should be given the opportunity to take some of the facts that had to be discussed in the litigation procedure to delay the implementation of the executive procedure by referring to a new case and by resolving some of the issues that had to be discussed previously. In that sense, this member can cause major problems during the executive procedure, if he stays this way, and can cause major abuses. You'd have guessed the debtor's position unquestionably. In that sense, I think we should adopt this amendment. Indeed, an entire article 22 as set up cannot stand in this bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8032	Thank you. Please, the word is Zoran Stojkovic, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8033	On behalf of the Government, I accept this amendment. to delete this article because you convinced me of the reasons why they really are valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8034	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it does not appear that the same government has proposed the Law on Prosecution and the Law on Executive Procedure. There are reportedly shortened deadlines under current legal solutions, in order to bring the litigation process to an end as soon as possible. However, once that procedure has been completed, the procedure which has been achieved in the litigation process should be carried out, i.e. the fact that it is in conformity with that verdict. Under current legal solutions, state and legislative authorities have protected debtors, so another category or profession has emerged in Serbia -- debt evasion. It seems to me that a bill like this only leads to an increase in the number of persons involved in this activity. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23, which regulates how the case can be returned to its previous situation. I asked him not to be able to return to his previous condition if the deadlines for appeal were missed. The deadlines for appeal, or the elements contained in the complaint, are elements where the court has wronged or failed to see the facts to the end. With my amendment, I asked for the possibility to return to the former situation because the complaint could inform the court that there were new circumstances or that part of the debtor's obligations had been settled. And there should be a legal possibility about that, that the debtor should inform the court if the trustee does not. It would therefore prevent reuses, that this litigation, which is extremely long, and we heard it from my colleague, Peter Jojic, and who will not fix the previous law, should at least in this executive procedure shorten the possibility of the debtor avoiding his obligation and finally dissipating the courts and that the citizens in front of the courts finally begin to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8036	National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8037	In order to cut short the time, I just want on behalf of the SRS and the promoter, Dr Branislav Blazic, to stay with this proposal, as much as I would point out to the third party's objection. Another question arises, and the problem is that a third interested person should be left with the possibility of starting a lawsuit. There is a big problem, and I believe that this proposal should be respected because it is extremely useful for improving the bill. I see the minister has an understanding. This is a discussion, these are conflicting opinions. Five are said to know them more than one, but I think it's rationally considered and today's debate shows that it was worth the amendments and that it was worth the government's assessment that the amendments were extremely useful and that they were effective for this executive procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8038	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 26. The amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, MP Igor Mirovic has submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 26. The bill and you probably understood, starting with the amendments to Article 4 of fellow Members Peter Jojic, that the way is, and you also saw based on the amendments you have accepted so far, the arrangements of the law on the executive procedure of the SRS concept such that it wants to keep certain existing legal solutions. The execution of a foreign executive is an amendment to Article 26, where you have defined this chapter in five views. Col. Igor Mirovic believes it is enough to maintain a position, i.e. to change, and everything else from article 26. to delete. So, to completely change and to read: "The execution of a decision by a foreign court can be determined and implemented in the Republic of Serbia if the decision meets the legal requirements for recognition". This means the recognition of the party and the follow-up of all other positive legal regulations in this regard, and everything else that you have stated is unnecessary in Article 26 and the more precise legal formulation would be this, without much confusion, without much explanation and therefore I call on Members to accept the amendment of counterpart Igor Mirovic to Article 26, and also you, since it is obvious that this is a much better solution and more precise than proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8040	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this bill is adopted, it will cause inconceivable consequences. At first sight, who does not pay attention, does not understand and does not take into account the fact that our country has concluded with the country in question an international agreement on the execution of our judicial decisions in a foreign court. If this position is accepted and this proposal will cause inconceivable consequences and harmful to our country, which means that foreign states in our country will demand the execution of its decisions. Our country will not have the right to seek the execution of our judicial decisions in that country. If there is no international agreement on the delivery of international legal aid and there is no bilateral agreement and agreement between the states, big problems will arise and our country will suffer inexplicable consequences. That is why we believe that the proposed solution in the bill is absolutely not acceptable. It's not acceptable for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8042	The word has a people's Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic and the meaning of this amendment is that this formulation given to us in the bill of law, which is quite extensive and detailed, has been changed and we have given a general formulation that says that the execution of a decision by a foreign court can be determined and implemented in the Republic of Serbia if the decision fulfils the prescribed conditions for recognition. The SRS finds it wrong to formulate in detail in the Law on the Executive Procedure of Conditions under which a decision by foreign states can be implemented with us, for the reason that these conditions are defined by international agreements, or international conventions. These conventions, on the one hand, are subject to change, and on the other hand, once they are concluded and ratified in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they are directly applied as if they are domestic law. If we were to define in detail what conditions are needed here, we would, in the event of a change in an international convention, or the conclusion of some conventions under other conditions, be at every opportunity for each country with which we conclude that we are also changing the Implementing Procedure Act. It is much better to give a general formulation, where conditions are said and then from the international convention to the international convention, from country to country simply by bilateral agreements to formulates which are the conditions under which a foreign decision can be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8044	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the introduction of an entirely unknown and new institute in the Law of Executive Procedure, which is the giving of this property statement under the threat of prosecution and criminal sanctions. We haven't had it until now, and that's the statement in point 13, that when the trustee can't collect his claim and there's no data on the property of the debtor, then the court calls, you'll see later in the law, the debtors to plead on what property he has, and he's under the threat of criminal responsibility and criminal sanctions he's got, and later anyone who knows something about his property can report him and answer him for false testimony and fraud. It's a new institute, and that's why we're attacking it at the beginning of the law. He'd have to wipe later. An investigative principle is being introduced. Any disposition of the parties is nothing, and on the other hand, it leads to the fact that the trustee can be absolutely inactive in finding property and caring for his rights and inactive from the beginning, that he does not have to be careful who he enters civil law relations with, with whom he enters property relations. It burdens both the court and itself and society, rather than relying on him to enter with everyone, and then he will have to give him a statement of property, under the threat of criminal sanctions, and that will be a guarantee of his debt. This is contrary to human rights, as is known, and it is in direct contrast to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I am asked by an investigative judge or anyone - whether he committed murder, and he has the right to remain silent or not to speak the truth and not to suffer any legal consequences, as you know, unless he is determined to commit murder. He himself is not obliged to give such a statement and he can keep quiet, and here someone asks him if you have money somewhere, and the debtor has to answer it – yes, I have it in the safe, in the drawer or anywhere, I have some money. So something that's intimate, which is only the one who has it and doesn't know his wife or children, and now suddenly the trustee has to know that he has a certain amount of money or some property that he doesn't want to know about. It's completely unacceptable and I think it should be deleted. I'm saying that you realize that there's a conflict here with both criminal rules, with human rights and with a view to civil-legal relations so far, it's absolutely necessary and correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8046	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8047	In the beginning, I will announce that we are against this amendment. I must commend that something like this has been introduced into the Executive Procedure Act. The only court is authorized to do this and ask this party to proceed. I must remind you that it is a debtor who has not voluntarily fulfilled the obligation established by a judicial judicial verdict. In many provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act, you will see that there is a situation where enforcement is practically not possible, and the inability consists of 90% of all obligations prescribed by this law being monetary obligations. If it's a monetary obligation, then it's inevitable to talk about the property rights of an individual who has certain things. In order to avoid pointless conduct, I must remind you that there are provisions that state that enforcement is not practically possible. There's no execution, that's impossible based on conjecture. That's why, even at the beginning of this debate, I said that the theoretical question is whether the whole executive procedure should be the jurisdiction of a court or another body, but if it's already a commitment that it should be a court, then we need to know that this is the second part of the legal procedure in which the individual makes his claim. This claim is guaranteed by the state, because it has reached a judicial verdict in a litigation procedure. He can't go after the execution, it can't be pointless. The court is the only one empowered, and the court is obliged to ensure the confidentiality of that information. So, if there is a problem with this statement, then it can only be said that it may be one, not in this article, but in the following members, inaccuracy and indiscretion. We need this institute so it doesn't happen that there's a procedure that's known at the outset that can't be done to the end. I wish that something similar was given in some other proceedings, because there is a problem in the litigation of how to define the claim, how to specify it, because the executive procedure inherits something that was in the litigation procedure, so if in the litigation procedure the claim was not precise, directed to some claim, and later it turns out that there is no material basis for fulfilling this claim, then the whole operation is called litigation and execution, meaningless. This is just one of the ways the state should show that it guarantees the enforceability of its decisions. You need to ensure the secrecy of this information. The fact that someone in criminal proceedings is defended by silence, he defends himself until the verdict is passed, but you can't make analogy with this situation, the verdict has long been made here. In every way possible, the defendant defended his interests in the litigation process. He's not in a position to point out these objections right now. He's obliged to make it possible to execute. If he didn't want to voluntarily, then the trustee asks the state, in the form of an executive court, for the court to implement its decision. That's why I said there's only a beginning here at the party's request, and everything else goes according to official duty. Unfortunately, it's not here until the end. I wouldn't want to make an analogy with parts of the executive procedure in other areas, when it comes to administrative matters, etc. This statement is necessary, only with her to be cautious and she should stand by law, in the extreme case, and as a warning measure to anyone who voluntarily fails to fulfil his obligation as determined by a court ruling. Just because there's a mistake in the litigation process, a lack of judgment in the litigation procedure, don't ask to be resolved in the executive procedure. We need to make a clear line. It was one side of the medal, this is the other side of the medal. Now we regulate the other side of the medal. I wish you'd done a little differently in court, too, so you wouldn't waste your time in execution, because there's really a question of why someone's conducted a litigation, you got in court, when it can't be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8048	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8049	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is still an institution in force in law to collect claims on the debtor's debtor. Therefore, this institute is very important in its proposal to maintain itself for reasons not to allow debtors and the debt lobby to hide their funds or items owned, whether movable or immovable, anywhere in our country's territory. First of all, many manipulations by debtors are known in practice. If it wasn't for this projected institute, and it's also in the applicable law, I'm telling you that in a number of cases, trusts will never be able to collect their claim. As far as intimacy is concerned, and as far as these secrets are concerned, why? Data is the possibility for the debtor to voluntarily pay, not to be exposed to criminal and legal liability, but to pay the debt. As Milos Obrenovic said, "the debt must be settled".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-04-0.u8050	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we finish today's work, I would like to inform you, although the president has told you, that we will work both tomorrow and Monday, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 81(4), because of the scope of the agenda, the importance of the law and the need for urgent adoption of these laws, and all in the interests of citizens. Tomorrow's the 10.00 p.m. session. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly and that 84 MPs are present. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from being attended by the MPs: Ksenija Milivojevic, Dejan Stojljković, Slobodan Mihajlović, Miroslav Markicevic, Velimir Stanojevic, Milorad Belic, Dusan Mrvos, Radic Jokovic, Vladimir Andrić, Slavoljub Matić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Emilia Krstic, Radojko Obradović, Mika Vlaović, Zoran Nikolic and Goran Jakšić. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW WITH THE PERSONAL PROCEDURE (the follow-up in particular) The National MP Mileta Poscurica submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Representative of the Proposer did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
