ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8654	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 126 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC ASSESSMENT OF WORK CONSTRUCTIONS (resuming in particular) I remind you that at yesterday's session, we started a debate on the amendment of MP Gordana Gajic to Article 30. It's a bill of law. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a People's MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, or an MP, as you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8655	Yesterday, we agreed on an amendment to Article 30, which envisions volunteering in its position 2, according to the minister, that parties in the dispute can submit a joint request for a standstill in the proceedings. Earlier, the minister said the law is being passed because we are harmonising the entire system in Serbia. If it tried to bring the whole of the system into line in Serbia, there could be no such solution, because the other day we completed a debate on the law on litigation, which does not provide for a peaceful procedure anywhere. On the contrary, the former Institute of Peace has fully adjudicated the procedure. So, according to our PPP, there's no possibility that the procedure will rest, and this law foresees it. One more thing is that I have a lot on my mind about this amendment, that is, Article 30. The chairman read that the Legislative Committee proposed that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee has the right and the duty to assess whether the amendment is legally possible and whether it is legally impossible. If rejected, it is legally impossible, and this means that it does not comply with the law or the Constitution. It's one of the things that, in some sense, would suggest that Article 2 cannot stand in this law. As for volunteering, where the minister insisted in his presentation, of course we are in favour of volunteering and of course we are in favour of having parties and having the right to determine themselves in procedures. To Article 19. There was an amendment to the DS parliamentary group that requested this volunteering and that the parties could be agreed whether or not the proceedings would be suspended. Therefore, the DS parliamentary group absolutely wants parties' will to be respected in procedures, but unfortunately, such a solution cannot stand in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8656	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8657	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honored Minister, article 30 is fully breaking through the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and degrades the Serbian judiciary. This is where the arbiters and the laymen are placed above the courts and judges. Why is the legal system going through? Because we had a debate about the Law of Parley Procedure, where the Institute of Restoring was excluded in a litigation procedure. I have to tell those who are not lawyers that the difference between the rest institutes and the stasis institutes is due to legal consequences. There is a standstill when one of the parties in the proceedings does not come to the hearing, and it is the prosecutor. The procedure on the defendant's proposal begins to stand still, and at the end of the deadline, unless the prosecutor initiates the standstill procedure, the lawsuit is considered withdrawn. This is contrary to such a planned institute of litigation. During the debate, the minister noted that he had breached the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, that his proposal for a law in colluding with the Law on Prosecution, proposed by the minister of justice, is clearly talking about the lack of synchronisation of work in the government itself. This says that the Secretariat for the Law of the Republic of Serbia does not do its job, does not provide for the integrity of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia. Such a proposal for a law puts arbitration tribunals above judges and courts because, at the request of the parties, the resolution of a dispute is exempt from jurisdiction and transferred to a fully bureaucratic apparatus. Yesterday I heard very poor qualifications from the minister about the work of the Serbian judiciary. The minister voiced doubts that judges are deliberately or unwarranted in the process of working disputes, and that these institutes, which provide for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, will ensure peaceful resolution and efficiency in protecting citizens' rights. I absolutely believe that it is a fully improvised assessment, because although the Serbian judiciary suffers from many children's diseases, there are many faults that we can attribute to it very objectively, yet I am inclined to believe in the independence and independence of the judiciary. In this way, this law, the minister is trampling out the Serbian judiciary and believes that more trust in the dispute resolution agency, where the director is appointed by the government and where the peacemakers and arbiters will be layers, very often legal layers, but some of the overworked trade unions who have worked for years and received wages in union organisations do not solve workers at all. I'm afraid there's a bureaucratic structure here that is similar to that of many trade unions who don't know what to do in this transition period. On the other hand, I warn the trade unions that this law will free the government from obligations and responsibilities for solving social problems, and that the trade unions will be dragged in, based on this law and the law on the socio-economic council, and take responsibility for the social tensions created. You have a situation where the prime minister and the government will remove these pressures from themselves, and they will even remove from the resolution ministry responsible for labour affairs, but will therefore be decided by some at the sixth level under the government and prime minister. It will be the arbiters, very often appointed and designated by the director of the Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution. Whenever the parties do not agree on the personality of the arbitration or of the peacemakers, particularly in disputes where the parties are employed in public and municipal enterprises, and the other party in the dispute is the founder, which is the Republic, city or autonomous province, in which case he is appointed by the director of the agency, who is once again the government's extended arm, because the government has placed him in that position. This is all about political intentions, it talks about the senselessness of this legal solution, about breaking through Serbia's legal system and overcoming the independence and independence of Serbia's judiciary, because judges of laymen, arbiters of laymen, are placed above courts and judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8658	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday Mr. Minister pointed out that we should look at the entire system of this law and take care of it. About the fact that there is not a system there, a colleague named Leila Ruzdic said earlier. Mr. Secretary was talking about one thing called law enforcement. I wrote it down, that's the expression he used. It is evident that this law cannot be applied for reasons that have just been highlighted. It's a lack of proceedings, as an institute, in a litigation procedure. There was no coordination within the government itself. It appears that it is important for this procedure to be terminated in some way and managed within the framework of this agency, or new institutes, and that the court should, to some extent, stop the proceedings. It is not possible, as we can see, to hold the proceedings, which the bill of law was to impose, because of the Law on litigation. And that there is this institute, it cannot be imposed on the parties to stand still because, by their free will, the parties in the litigation process determine whether there will be a standstill. Therefore, they cannot be predetermined by some law that they want to use other means of law, they must go to a standstill. That's not in line with the litigation procedure, if there was a standstill. On the other hand, what's left of the Law on the Prosecution, it's an end to the proceedings. Could the legislator now be able to introduce, instead of standing down, a mistrial? He couldn't, because we fought, and we were rejected as far as the proposal is concerned, so that the end of the proceedings could be sought by the parties themselves. The Ministry of Justice, or the Proposer of the Law on Prosecution, has explicitly insisted that the parties cannot request an end to the proceedings, nor can they stop the proceedings under their own will before the court. Therefore, the application of the law proposed, which was here, does not really stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8660	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8661	Your Honored Presidency, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that you practically did not attend most of the discussion in this room yesterday, when a number of objections were sent to your bill. You showed up in the O.R. somewhere around 17:30 - 17.40 and gave a 20-minute speech, obviously independent of what we had to tell you before. What was the worst, that was when you answered, allegedly, some remarks, and you didn't even hear our remarks. As you can see, I am already the fourth member of the Democratic Party to appear for this Article 30. We think that this particular article is the 30th evidence and the picture of the law being made here today in front of us. In fact, there is a legal order in one country and there are laws and these laws must be in accordance with each other in order to be one system that works. I really expect from you the answer to the question that the parties to the joint court will apply for a standstill procedure, when three days ago we completed a debate here on the draft law on litigation, where our party also had dozens of amendments, which ruled out the possibility of a standstill. So, I wasn't lazy, so last night I read the draft law on litigation, and I think I almost memorized it. If I have to, I'll give you a copy. I'd like you to find a place to stay until the end of the day. If by any chance this government had heard of the amendments to the Democratic Party, you would not have had this problem now, because we have given some amendments that might have been delayed by the standstilling process, but of course there was no such thing. So, because of colleagues from the DSS and G17 plus, I'll read about what this is about, which four of us already says: "If there is a case between the parties in the individual dispute on the same factual and legal basis, the parties in the dispute are obliged to submit a motion to the court jointly for a standstill". Gentlemen of the law, my fellow lawyers, we're out of proceedings. Do you understand that this law is in collegiate with that law you gave us here three days ago for consideration? Do you know that this is a provision that is inapplicable and do you even know that this is just one of the siestas of this law that are completely inapplicable? Why don't you answer this question, or you'll leave the O.R. again and come to 17.40 and tell the story you prepared in advance? At the very least, that's not correct. MPs make amendments, come out here and talk, try to explain something, and there's no one to listen to them. Once again on the Committee, I do not understand how my colleague, Vice-President of the Angelkovic Assembly, said the Legislative Committee had refused. For these four years, as far as we're concerned, we're probably aware that the Legislative Committee can determine that something is in accordance with the law and that something is not in accordance with the law. He does not appreciate integrity, he only determines legality, whether something is legally possible or not legally possible. In general, this whole discussion, as I see it with the ruling coalition's own coalition partners, is causing some dissatisfaction. It is not good for the National Assembly to have such laws, which will only cause problems when implementation takes place in practice, and it will obviously be if the minister does not agree to withdraw this law. When there are so many objections to one law, and they are more or less founded, it is sometimes better to withdraw that law, to change solutions that are not appropriate, to return in a month and certainly to adopt the law in a better atmosphere. So, I'm finishing up, I'd ask the Minister to take the Law on Prosecution and to show to all of us, who may be living in ignorance and error, on the basis of which member of this law the parties will address the court and demand, I don't know how it might be, because it could never be required, but well, to show us where in this law is the Institute of Peace of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8662	The word has Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Policy Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8663	I'm going to answer this question briefly, since this has obviously proved to be the biggest problem in the application of this law. Indeed, in the draft law on litigation, which was discussed here before this law, was left out of the institution of rest. However, I am also asking the present lawyers - can we, in the proposal of the second law, until the law on litigation has been passed, to ignore the institute of rest, which still exists in the legal system and order, until there is, possibly, a law on litigation. I just think it's knocking on the wrong door, and the whole problem that exists and you point to will be solved when we know whether a law on litigation will be passed. This way, you would ask us for something that is legally and logically absolutely impossible, while the existing Law on the Prosecution is in force. He's still in effect, so, gentlemen of the law, he'll be in effect until the new one is adopted and announced in "The Voice," eight days after that, and you're asking this government to do something directly illegal. I'd ask you not to ask this kind of thing from this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8664	Replica, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8665	Mr. Minister, there are a few questions here. First of all, whether you as a government minister who proposed to us three days ago one other law was not able to counter what kind of solution would be in that law. So every MP in this room is aware that there will be no more rest within 10 days. By preparing a law, which is supposed to work in the future, you wanted to counter-cipe further events, because you have understanding of what was going on, but you weren't able to understand that there will be no rest within 10 days. The other thing is, I'm sorry you guys have a bad time. It is not illegal for you to provide for another institute if you foresee another solution. That doesn't mean it's illegal. Just try, at least because of us lawyers here, not to use such terms, whether they sound nice on television or not. So your argument is not entirely correct. You are one government; that government has proposed two laws, we are considering them within a week and they will be adopted one day when it is voting day, and in these two laws put such illogicalness. The problem is with the government, the problem with you ministers who seem to be not cooperating, you don't agree; or the problem with that government body that should take care of the legislation and the compliance of the rules. So the problem is with peace; maybe you could have predicted some other institute, and there's a law on litigation of some other institute, you could have otherwise solved this. Why don't you just admit a slip before the messengers of the people, for it will be fairer for us and for you and for those of the lawyers who wrote you the law. You're not a lawyer and you don't know it. So you say it well -- yes, it's a small one, we'll change it, we'll pull it back, we'll do better to make it work better. This explanation you've given just doesn't stand, because it's bad for you as a minister that you haven't been able to predict events 10 days ahead, and as you think in two or three years, how long you can be a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8666	Let's take the order, first Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 30 of the Law is, in fact, the 34th attempt in writing to convince the assembly majority that this text of the bill is not declared by law. The reasons for that you've heard from the legal profession, it's very logical, by respecting the profession and logic of law, I think it's clear to everyone why this text of law shouldn't become law. I'll run through legal practice briefly, just some other arguments to say. So this area can be solved differently, faster, and cheaper. When it comes to individual disputes, I mean canceling the employment contract, and the employer and the employees are contracting work in the establishment of a working relationship, canceling the employment contract can give the employer whenever he wants and doesn't have to explain it. There is also a possibility that the employer, if he fails to comply with the 15-day deadline, will make a dispute about it, if he needs that worker, if he is threatening the process of work, will not find a replacement for the worker who quit and left. In cases where the employer quits, in terms of the existing Labour Act today it is much harder to give the worker a job, than according to the law that was previously in force, at least in those parts where the worker does not respect labour discipline, does not regularly come to work, does not meet a certain working standard, therefore, in enterprises where majority social capital is. In private practice, with entrepreneurs, it is far easier, but only because existing regulations are not respected and labour inspection is not doing its job, because it is not an opportunity to do its job. Perhaps this problem would be easier to resolve if the labour inspection had better conditions, more resources and would be able to visit all employers in regular control and correct all irregularities during work, compared to employees who hire, or to act preventively, without having to punish the employer immediately. That would prevent the work on black with private entrepreneurs. In large systems, large companies, a worker who doesn't come to work can't even quit because of a large number of absences, there's no disciplinary procedure, and when you quit, he can say that his behavior was not in line with common sense, and then you can't quit. When it comes to workers whose work has ceased their need, there is a need to respect the severance of arrears, so the employer is often not in a position and there is no notice, within the meaning of the Labour Act and the Employment Act, where the worker who is left out of work could exercise certain rights, in accordance with the Employment Act, relating to years of work and the conditions regulated in that area. When it comes to the minimum wage payment dispute, the employer is obliged to offer a contract, there is a labour contract, and there is a labour contract because of market disturbances he is unable to pay off. So the second part is in terms where the earlier contract is less than the minimum profit the government and the union contract every six months, and the publication of the data, etc. If the employer is unable to pay off the earnings due to liquidity disturbances and the blocking of accounts, then you cannot resolve this dispute in this way, regardless of how you want the peacemakers or the arbiters, and even the intervention of the labour inspection is not an opportunity if the employer has come into such a difficult situation that he cannot pay off the earnings. But then there are certain measures to initiate bankruptcy proceedings in that company and to settle obligations, or in some other way, according to existing regulations, to put everything in order, to get the employer to do the job in accordance with the regulations, to meet the obligations of employees and the state or to cease to exist. When it comes to differences, minimum earnings due to less contracted labour prices, these are small amounts and a small number of workers, so that would not be some big problem of the dispute, but in practice often arises as a problem of the ignorance dispute. So there's no better arbiter than an inspector who comes to the employer and makes a record of irregularities, violations of certain provisions of the rule. The essence of the story is this: the legislator intended to remove social policy from the company and the state to care for the social status of workers. So, in all cases, the employer can cancel the workers if he respects the procedure, he must not err in the procedure, which is why the court would return employees to work, and if the need for a worker has ceased due to a reduction in the volume of production or market disturbances, if he cannot place the products or for any other reason, he must respect that the worker would exercise certain labour market rights if he did not get fired because of his own error. I would appeal once again to the minister that all of this can be done far better and cheaper if the work inspection is accelerated, if it is more regular tours and insists on applying the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8668	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and then a National MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8669	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the DS Group has already, here, the fourth day points to two facts. The first is that this law should be passed, and the second is that this law cannot be adopted in this way. The arguments presented by the minister point to the fact that he himself is aware that the law has failures, which they tried to correct by calling the Committee and proposing that certain legal and technical corrections be made in it. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia in Article 141 states that proposals for amending and supplementing the bill, i.e. amendments, are submitted to the President of the National Assembly in writing, starting from the date of the submission of the bill, and no later than three days before the date set for the meeting. The amendment to Article 30 has not been submitted. Since it is not a legal and technical supplement, there is no longer a time limit within which an amendment may be submitted which could correct the failure in Article 30. Because, the legislator says that "in the course of voting in particular", I quote again, for the sake of time, "the amendments in writing can be submitted by the legislator, the competent committees, or the government, only if the need for an amendment has arisen as a result of the previous acceptance of another amendment". We are not here in a situation where some previously accepted amendment will derivate a provision that stands in Article 30 for the intended stay, but rather the second law that is on the agenda of this National Assembly, which is the Law on Prosecution. It is also an unacceptable finding that we cannot know how we will comply with the provisions of different laws that are at the same time on the agenda of the National Assembly. The government is proposing all these laws. All these laws pass through the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In each government, there is the Legislative Secretariat, which is obliged to take care of the unique legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore it is unacceptable to convene two laws in the agenda with completely different solutions. So it's not about legal-technical change, it's about different institutes -- the Institute of Peace and the Institute of Stallion. As we have pointed out, it is not only the fact that this law is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, which will be adopted, because I assume that the ruling coalition has a majority, so it could therefore assume that the Law on Prosecution will be adopted. These provisions of the law are also contrary to the law on public agencies, which will be on the agenda within the next few days, as well as to Article 153. The labour law. On these members who are contrary to these two laws, the DS parliamentary group submitted amendments, because it also intended to vote for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, as well as for the law on public agencies. The Democratic Party did not submit amendments to Article 30, because it has no intention of voting for the Law on Prosecution, which we have in the long debate on litigation in particular, because we were denied the opportunity to discuss in principle, indicated that it was not done in the way that the Democratic Party considers that the Law on the Prosecution should be done. So once again I appeal to the ruling coalition MPs, I appeal to the government, to Mr. Minister not to allow the law, which is objectively needed by our legal system, to be adopted with these legal shortcomings. We cannot allow the reputation of the National Assembly to be undermined, the possibility of passing quality laws in the National Assembly, so that although we are aware of the fact that we have unsatisfactory laws, we will still vote for them. Of course, if you have a majority in the National Assembly, and I assume that the ruling coalition has, you can vote anything. You can vote it's evening now, you can vote that spring is autumn, you can vote whatever you put on the agenda. But, please, we are here, as I have already said on many occasions, in charge of solving problems. Problems happen every day. It's normal for them to happen and miss if someone wants to solve the problem. But don't, please, run away from the problem. Unfortunately, it is a characteristic of the government, for which we are all witnesses together. Don't run away from those problems that we're all aware of together right now. Don't run away from the fact that it's impossible to adopt three laws that have completely different legal solutions for the same problems they deal with. Be kind, Minister, withdraw this law from the agenda. Change the provisions of laws that do not comply with the laws that are also on the agenda of this call, and the Democratic Party will vote for such amended laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8670	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the interpretation of the Law on Prosecution by Mr. Minister absolutely does not comply with the proposed solution in Article 30. A bill of this law. First of all, the Law on a litigation procedure in Article 216 provides for when proceedings can take place. The standstill may take place for several reasons, but it is primarily required that the parties agree on this. There, therefore, the minister and MPs of the SRS cannot be found at the same level, because the stay of proceedings under the applicable law means one of the reasons why the parties agreed. Well, what does the proposer offer? The legislator in the law referred to in Article 30(2) says: "If the parties to the individual dispute are subject to judicial proceedings on the same factual and legal basis, the parties to the dispute are obliged... ". Therefore, there is no obligation here now for anyone to impose the law in force in Articles 216 and 217. So it can't be identified, it can't be compared, it can't be interpreted. According to this proposal, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister will see significant differences, and the important difference is that, according to the proposal, the parties in the dispute are obliged, and the Law on a litigation in Article 216 says - if the parties, so the prosecutor and the defendants, agree. It is the disposition of the will of the parties and no one else, that is, some other law cannot, until this law is put out of force, now impose other obligations, and it is about important differences and legal norms. I believe that Mr. Minister also knows well that the Law on Prosecution is a system law, and this is a bill that should regulate only one area, which looks like a dispute settlement, as we had in the past, when the courts of joint work were tried. Well, now we're going to have arbitres, like we had judges working together. I know that one mechanic in Panchev was the judge of the joint work court. He made decisions under the law and in the court of joint work decided on very important issues, existential issues of our citizens. Still, that's not how it should be done, because citizens can't forgive us. This is a serious parliament, in which elected people, MPs, who have the right to pass laws, but also have an obligation to respond to voters, in front of citizens about what laws we pass. It is of the utmost importance today, ladies and gentlemen, that the state has an effective judicial procedure. It all depends on the functioning of the courts. If our system doesn't work, we won't have an effective solution to numerous disputes under collective and general agreement. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will face the fact that disputed relations are resolved by arbitration and peacemakers, in which case the state loses a significant lever of power. We should not leave this lightly and put on the low borders of the rights of our workers, which, according to this bill, should be achieved through the arbitration or peacemakers. And this is too serious a question. In Germany on economic disputes and on a number of other relations, when it comes to the exercise of labour rights, US solutions have not been accepted. This was confirmed in Sofia this summer at a consultation attended by German judges of the Supreme Court, district courts and senior district courts and appeals courts, where representatives of the Ministry of Justice from the Republic of Serbia attended. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't even accept any mediation. I think there's a lot to be done. If a law is to be passed, then there should be thorough preparations for a good law and when it comes to parliament, that parliament adopts it, rather than giving it to parliament with such amendments and disputes a thorough search and raises questions as to whether it will be able to live in practice at all. It can, but on condition that existing laws are amended, and in that case it could possibly be talked about how citizens resolve disputes. If it's a system law, it needs to be applied first.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8672	He has the word Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, something was not clear to me; Mr. Minister came out and explained, and only then was I, neither you nor the citizens of Serbia understood. The minister says, "What if the law on litigation is not passed?" The minister says – in the litigation procedure, it was overlooked that there was no standstill in the procedure. And what if both laws don't pass? It would be very good for Serbia if this law was not passed. Article 30 says, "Individual dispute can be resolved before arbitration, in accordance with this law, if the subject of a dispute is the cancellation of the labour contract and payment of minimum earnings". And what's more important for a worker than when he gets fired from his job contract, what's more important for a worker than paying off that church girl who needs to be paid off? You guide him before the arbiter, so if they don't make a deal, we say, a month, maybe another month, maybe another month, and another month, then he'll go to trial, and neither does he nor the family have anything to eat. I'm sorry I don't see any MPs here from Apatino. I see one. The case from Apatino: The Mlin-Kekar industry from Apatin, or what was already called the baker, your tender privatisation sold to a fraud; the first thing he did, he grinded and sold 600 grain wagons that were in the silo, took off the lead roof from the mill, sold it and put on aluminum, for more than a year he paid nothing to the workers. You now guide them, instead of suing, thank God so this law won't apply, let's have one two or three months of arbitration with them decide, first to catch him, because he's mostly not in Apatino, and 100 or more workers are out of work and without bread, then three months to negotiate, then before the court to seek their rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time for the minister to put his finger on the head and say, "I'm withdrawing this law to do it, to get it done by the Ministry." It is necessary to do so in the sense in which the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party are, only then, to come before us, to adopt the law, to make the law look like something and to be applicable. The basic lack of this law is that there is no sanctions. It doesn't mean anything unless this dispute is resolved by a peaceful path. No one is responsible for anything except those who have suffered damage in this dispute, because two or three months with it are difficult. Minister, please consider and withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8674	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8675	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, despite my best intentions, I cannot understand this reaction from the minister: in the midst of a story about one of the key amendments and members of the law, Article 30, suddenly a man stood up and left. Maybe he'll listen to his colleague Markovic's proposal, write down his resignation or withdraw the law. Some of that should happen today. Since the minister is not here, I must tell you that very poor reactions are employed in Serbia to this law. Since workers can hear and listen The one who throws "come on, come on" out for a pay phone, so let him say something smart, not throw it out of the bench like a mouse and know nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing we protect here or what the workers in Serbia are in. [[Dropping out of the O.R.: Come on.]] As for employees in Serbia, the reactions are such that we here yesterday, especially Serbian Radical Party MPs, mentioned many businesses. What's the number of workers, you can't even imagine, is tens of thousands, which are already in the court's dispute, are looking for minimum earnings, respect for contracts, respect for the social programme. Yesterday I told you there was an extreme case in Kragujevac with the PKK company. Here, counterpart Arsic says it is the case in Pozharevc and with the company Morava, and with the meat industry. In Kursumlia, yesterday, a colleague of Radeta told us, "Auto Transport" Vranja Banja, the question is what will happen. On the other hand, the minister came out here yesterday at 17.45 p.m., although I did leave the session a little earlier, but my colleagues told me that he had delivered a real political speech under the system of promoting this as the Law on Joint Work. Indeed, the position of this party to which it belongs is seen, and only its exposure and all that it tells the workers of this position is a reflection of one, above all, of the totalitarian regime, of the communist regime, of everything that was happening in that time. We are suffering the consequences today, especially because of the fact that we have such a model of social property and because of the fact that many directors of that time, this director's lobby, do not want to accept the situation that needs to happen, create the possibility and conditions (and therefore the workers argue with them) that for small money, almost for the bagatella, they buy all the businesses in Serbia. Here is the key problem, not only in a minister who has such a state of consciousness, it's his communist, real socialist belief. He is ready to promote it here, and the Serbian Radical Party is diametrically opposed to him, of course, and through a concept that we advocate about the economy and through the protection of workers, which is not the case with Minister Lalovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is also a big problem with the Republic Secretariat of Law, namely Mr. Zoran Balinovac. Earlier we had problems with the previous DOS government with such unconformed laws, when the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation was Zoran Zivkovic's wife, Biserka Zivkovic. Now this problem is evident with Mr Balinec, if he did not know – and the man had passed several regimes, meaning he was experienced, and he was able to provide himself and always manage, to be in a certain position – that this article is directly contrary to the law, or the state of rest, which many colleagues here have said does not exist in the Law on the Parietal Procedure, and the Minister finds out about the post-festum, and now looks into the sky and says, "We will see whether the law on litigation will be adopted." He'd rather guess what time it will be than predict what's going to happen here tomorrow with the congregation majority. It has been so uncertain since the beginning that I understand Mr. Lalovic's bidding on whether he will be the majority for the litigation process, but don't make such a proposal and what he's forcing the workers per article 30 to bring even worse into the position of all these people who are hopeless and who are spinning from month to month, year to year. You have to be aware that these people don't receive salaries. Some for 15 months or more. Let's leave you for 15 months so you don't receive a single penny, you spend time here, some steal God's day, some do something, some push the tasters, but imagine what it would look like right now not to get paid for 15 months and that you're forced to sue the state, and these people have to go to court. Then what do they do? The law now tells them that they have to suspend it, named some arbitration officer whom they did not choose, elected by the national representatives, and the question is how much they are responsible for it. They chose him through this vote of the bill. It's a lot more serious than you think and how the days will go today, and you'll see tomorrow's reactions. Already today and in the press, and in local media, people are being polled, very bad reactions, because they know that this is further affected by them, in addition to such a labour law and the Privatisation Act. There's been a robbery, a kidnapping of many companies, workers lost their jobs, no respect for the labor contract, no respect for paying minimum earnings, so what do you want more, to take people's souls. Instead of helping them, you're making their situation worse with a bill like this. Therefore, it would be good for you to appeal to the minister to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8676	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the individual dispute will not be resolved through the arbitration panel, as suggested by the promoter, the Government, the minister, and even less will be resolved through some services and legal aid, as proposed by the radicals. The only solution to this problem is the change of the Labour Act, precisely the change of the 103st member to talk about the resignation by the employer. Let me remind you, there are about eight or nine points here, where an employer can fire an employee at any time. This resignation may be if the employer suddenly finds that the worker does not have good results, that he has no ability and knowledge for the job, if his behaviour is not adapted to the employer's demands, because of the working discipline, which is always under question, can be fired because of the abuse of sickness, technological, organisational and technical changes. So one broad spectrum, and that's the essence of this problem. But since the minister a few days ago, at least to us in the SPS, said the Labour Act would be on the agenda in a month, I am now asking all MPs here who will be present for the fundamental changes to that law. It's just the SPS. Do not spread demagogue in this congregation. These laws that were up until 2000 were the best laws for employees, for workers, for unemployed, for pensioners. DOS is how many years from now you hit those laws. So, all the other political parties, here's what's gonna happen in a month, maybe a month and a half, if they're going to stand up for those solutions that we've had. Which one of our solutions was it? In addition to a mandatory collective contract, a vacation is up to 36 days. Now it's gone. A paid leave of absence for 15 days, and now it's five days. The amount of cash compensation, over 30 years of internships, everyone had the right to fines until retirement. They were socialist laws, SPS laws, they were laws for people. And all political parties, at least those relevant in the Assembly, will not be for that law. There's gonna be some small modifications, some small, tiny changes. But what bothers us today in this debate in the Assembly for two days, it is demagogy from all sides. Everyone's suddenly worried about this law. The biggest demagogue here is spread by the Democratic Party and Bosko Ristic, Ms. Snezana Stojačić-Lakicevic. They are concerned because this law does not comply with some other law. At the same time until yesterday they did not respect the highest legal act, the Constitution. They've been breaking it at all times. We haven't had a Constitutional Court in a year and a half. They extradited President Milosevic past the constitution. A hundred violations they had. Now they're God knows how worried, it'll be anything if this law passes. Bosko Ristic appeared here for two days, expressing great concern for workers, for all employees, for pensioners. Someone would say -- here's the DS for a shortcut to take care of all people in Serbia. At the same time, Bosko Ristic and the Democratic Party voted that pensioners have 50% of the average salary, so many pensions. Bosko Ristic voted in favour of the Labour Act, under which the employer can fire the worker if this one looks at him in the opposite direction. He voted for it, and DS. DS MPs also voted for the Privatisation Act, the robbery law. They robbed Serbia in a year. They sold the tobacco industry and cement stores. I resent this government, which is much better than it was before, they didn't investigate anything. A year ago, the DOS MP said -- 15m euros took two ministers just to privatise Cementara in Paracino. Bosko, if you're worried about this agency, how the agency will finance itself, let the two ministers return only one percent of what they took and the agency will finance themselves. You know, we're against the agency. We're not for this law either, because he's neutral, but at least you DS law, you have no right to talk about agencies. You've formed a hundred agencies in Serbia and the Bureau. Who were your directors of these agencies and bureaus? Baby Popovic, Kolesar, Janjusevic. Now you're worried about what the agencies and this agency will look like after this law. It's a real shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8678	Replica, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8679	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, is past the time of the local sheriffs who have trampled on the judiciary and the justice system. The biggest credit that time has passed has the DS, which has been fighting for reforms in Serbia. Here we are taught lessons about the right to social protection and the social status of citizens with the highest legal possibilities for those who haven't paid their salaries in years. Those who now knock on the government door, both previous and current, have been victims of the SPS' rule over the past 10 years. If we're talking about robberies here, I really advocate that our judicial system, that the prosecution clears up every receipt and every appearance, or every report that someone's ever committed a robbery. As chairman of the Management Board of the last meeting, I had a little better insight into the MP files based on the demands of authorised prosecutors. A large number of MPs from the previous SPS call were reported for abuses in the previous period. I'd ask the judiciary to be more up-to-date and make all these cases clear in the right way. This is where we heard the demagogue from the SPS representatives that it is necessary to amend the Labour Act here, and that this law may not be good at this point because the Labour Act has not been changed. How will you vote for these laws that break through the legal system, which are at the expense of workers, who aim to challenge trade union organisations, to drag into the magical way of a union organisation, which should take responsibility for resolving the socio-economic status of Serbian citizens and employees, who are pressured by poverty, particularly in large systems, where nothing has been done, and big commitments have been made by ministers and the current government. Will you continue to support this inadequacy to address the situation in large systems? Will you continue to engage in demagogy without providing solutions? Will you continue to sit there, not reporting against what is legally impossible, logically that legally impossible solutions are being challenged and that by voting you support such solutions? If you're consistent, show it to a personal example. What you stand for in your own personal example can be shown. It is a date for the vote, and on its chance and night for the vote, as this parliament intends to work on Saturday as well as Sunday.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8680	Hansel Dacic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8681	You can tell I was gone for two days, so Bosko played a little bit. Since Bosko Ristic is a famous legislator who took away seven SPS mandates and gave Banet Ivkovic to survive the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, I really am not surprised when it comes to certain things that may have nothing to do with the topic discussed today. That's why I'm here once again to say that those who were under criminal charges at DOS time weren't just members of the SPS. They were, unfortunately, ordinary citizens, because you arrested 12,000 people without a court order. Put them in prisons, practically let them go without any explanation, and you'll see now, in the paper, you can read that the state has to pay compensation for what you've been doing. Also, since you are talking about these criminal charges, how serious these criminal charges are, perhaps I should not have answered the word now but our MP, Hranislav Peric, who can also bring you this famous stove for what he is accused of. These are your criminal charges against the Socialists. You didn't arrest thieves because your thieves teamed up with our former thieves, our ex. As far as the SPS is concerned, you do not have any arguments to talk about past times, because, as you know, Janjusevic was not a member of the SPS, Beba Popovic was not a member of the SPS, Marija Raseta was not a member of the SPS. Also, one Dragan Tomic has been with you since 6 October and therefore, do not attack people who have been with you. As far as DS is concerned, you are really the last party to share lessons with others. Besides, we're going to ask this government and we asked Minister Dinkic to finally show that final budget bill for 2001, 2002 and 2003 when you were in power, so let's see what you filed criminal charges for what you were doing. Our people were babies for your babies.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8682	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8683	Just one explanation for my colleague Bushettic. From the 1st member, to which the amendment was proposed by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, until the end of the law, we tried to prove to the minister that the unnecessarily established agency, that the unnecessary multiplication of the bureaucratic apparatus, that it would cost many citizens of Serbia and that the service is legal aid in local self-government, which is well-organised, and how it is able to carry out these tasks provided for by law. The elections for local self-government were held on 19 September and we from the SRS, as responsible people, running for our representatives, who in many municipalities and cities have received the trust of the people to rule, we know that with the reorganization and acceleration of the work and service it is possible and that workers do not have to break from one threshold to another, to seek some help, but that the service can legally help at the level of local self-government to work. We have also expressed our view from the beginning that it is necessary, we have first pointed out and complained to the Constitutional Court, which is of course not decisive on the matter of who knows how long, because it is a political court, to change the Labour Act. We've insisted on it since the constitution of a new assembly. So it is possible that the legal aid service is doing so and until the end, every Serbian radical will explain it, especially because of the fact that we know that, at least as far as the SRS is concerned, in many municipalities and cities headed by these municipalities, all experts are themselves. It is enough to tell you about the legal expert, Mayor of Novi Sad – Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, legal expert, President of Zemun Municipality – Gordan Pop-Lazic and so on. We're capable, we can do it, and that's why the citizens voted for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8684	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic, a replica to the presentation of the People's MP Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8685	If the intentions are fair, then each of us should advocate to determine the facts regarding the conduct of each individual performing a public function. In this sense, I advocate and support every proposal to examine everyone's work, and in this Parliament, in the government, to the lowest place in the state structure of government. But the biggest objections come from those at whose time there was a coup between the state and the mafia, resulting in the killings of political insinuators and attempted murder of political opponents. I'm not going to say names. The public is fully aware of that. It's precisely because of the heavy consequences of these strands that we suffer the slowness of transition. It is difficult to separate itself from the ballasts of these people and those centres of power created at the time of the SPS, the financial centres of power used by the state's privileges and which created a financial oligarchy that provided fingers and made a deal with some political centres of power. It's hard to separate it all, it's hard to get rid of the consequences, but we're still explaining to the Special Court some political-crimes that are the result of that time. I think the citizens of Serbia are quite clear about that. That is why there are people in this House who are against the special court, against the special department of the Belgrade District Court and the Supreme Court department. These are their arguments that want to cover up what's been going on for the last 10 years. These are the wishes for Serbian citizens to close their eyes and sleep over the resolution of these problems resulting from their behaviour. I think it's a demagogue that doesn't drink water at all. Serbian citizens will not buy that. The question of the term of office in the previous assembly was also raised here. Mr. Dacic says I took the mandates and gave Banet Ivkovic. I would ask the MPs in this room to agree once on the fact that the mandates are free and belong to MPs or the mandates are tied to their parties. There have been objections here - why do you take mandates to political parties and give them to MPs if the mandates are tied to the party? On the other hand, there have been remarks that parliamentary mandates are free and MPs are free to express their political views. Please, MPs, make a deal. It is true that the legal system is illogical and inconsistencies. In the proportional system, it is not possible to bind the mandate to the MPs, but to the party that proposed it. But unfortunately, we had decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are what they are and we respected them to the end. Those who dispute the Constitutional Court's decision should argue with the Constitutional Court. In parliament decisions were taken at the time of the entry into force of the Law on the selection of MPs, in full compliance with the provisions of that law. Following the Constitutional Court's decision, the Constitutional Court's decision was respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8686	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8687	I want to resent the chairman for giving Mr. Ristic the right to a replica, which he was wrong about, because I've been replicating him as the head of the SPS Parliament Club. As far as I know, replicas on the replica are not possible, except when Natasa Micic chaires this parliament, and I don't think she holds the presidency anymore. In that sense, I resent you for giving him the right to replicate to me. He can answer and talk about whatever he wants, but he didn't have the right to replicate my presentation, because my presentation was a replica of what he was saying. By the way, he spoke about the mandates, and Mr. Alimpic, who is chairman of the DS City Committee in Belgrade, spoke about ten or twenty days ago quite the opposite of what Bosko Ristic was saying. Now I don't know which faction is in the DS, but Mr. Alimpic then said that the mandates belonged to the parties and complained that Zemun Kariceva would not vote as Bogoljub says, but would vote with radicals and socialists and said they should be given mandates. Bosko Ristic now speaks completely different. After all, Mr. Ristic, we asked for the suspension of the term of office in April 2002. The Constitutional Court made a decision in November 2003. Don't talk about principles. As for the murders, the mob, the crime, I didn't notice that the SPS had anything to do with it. We have something to do with these stoves that Food Peric was talking about. That's why we're being charged. The state summit and party summit of your party, unfortunately, suffered from the mafia and crime, with the help of October 5th, whose help was also arrested Slobodan Milosevic, and of course, with whose help you worked together, paved the way for Serbia, made sugar affairs, etc. Don't now... Maybe you were a little wrong, maybe you were thinking about these fractions inside the DS, so you switched to the SPS. As far as we're concerned, the election ended in December 2000. The elections were in December 2003, and then they were talking about you. Then you were beaten and beaten to death. If you think that you have now returned to the political scene by choosing Boris Tadic, you should know that bypass and resuscitation have given you exactly the ruling parties from this Serbian government and thus made a big mistake. In addition to Boris Tadic and such DS, however much you help them, they will fall more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8688	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8689	As for the removal of the mandate and the basis on which they were seized, you, Mr. Ristic, are directly responsible as the chairman of the Administrative Board, because you were the striking fist of the policy that took over the mandates as it turned out. It has nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision. Mr Banet Ivkovic's case and the SPS's and the DSS's confiscation case are two antidotes on this issue, and they have nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision, because they have happened before and proved only one thing: that you wanted legal violence, through the removal of mandates and redistribution of mandates by political parties, to maintain the naked power and absolute majority in the republic's parliament, unlike these funds that political parties need to serve, and these are political negotiations and talks on the subject, as is the case today. You did it back then. Today, we are witnessing that in these three days, one million times you've come out for this pay phone, for every amendment, saying the same thing. Now you're reporting for replicas. When's that gonna stop? I was called by the citizens last night to rebel and to say that no one living will ever see the Third Channel again, as far as you appear on it. You're bored for these three years to the people, and you'll be bored for these three days just as much as you are for those three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8690	National MP Snezana Lakicevic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. On what grounds? He's out on the line. I've already been resented because you've been responding to the replica with another replica. He recognized himself in your presentation and asked for a replica. I can't give you a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Name a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8691	Article 96. My words are misread. I would just like to say one thing: first of all, the removal of office in this assembly was signed by Mr. Jocic, Deputy Chairman of the Administrative Board, in the absence of the Social Democracy term, Mr. Ljubi Slavkovic. Therefore, the first withdrawal was signed by Mr Jocic, in accordance with the same law that applied both in 2002 and 2003. The second thing, at the DOS session, when it was decided to withdraw the Social Democracy mandate, namely Mr Ljubivo Slavkovic, Mr Kostunica voted for it because he claimed and legally interpreted the mandates as belonging to the coalition, based on a coalition contract. Enough of that hypocrisy, enough of that base of falseness. That's the fundamental truth. I would like the DSS representative to deny that Mr. Kostunica voted to withdraw the mandate to Ljubovo Slavkovic, signed by Mr. Jocic, the current DSS minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8692	Are you looking for a replica? Whose exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8693	Mr. Ristic, you're very well interpreted. I do not serve to interpret you, you were interpreted by the citizens of Serbia when they should have interpreted you and the future. You know very well what you've been doing. Don't push anyone's decisions about taking a term of office. You know who's making the decision to take office. That's what the Governing Board, whose head you were in, is most of the votes. No withdrawing the DSS mandate has ever voted, nor have members of New Serbia in this assembly. Therefore, you voted in favour of the decision, and it is the responsibility of the vice-president of the committee, such as the country's president to sign a law that is adopted here, whatever its integrity means; therefore, the vice-president of the committee in the event of a voted decision is obliged to sign it, as you would be obliged to sign any decision that the Administrative Board makes by majority vote. But you're the team and the image of the majority who did that thing. That's what this is about. Therefore, do not misinformed the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8695	This time I appear on the basis of a replica, because Mr. Bushetic mentioned me in his presentation. First, I want to realize that very often from this pay phone, just like the last speaker, someone calls on the citizens of Serbia and the people, and then why are you angry at the citizens of Serbia and the people? Maybe because he didn't show you enough trust or not as much as you think he should, because, as another speaker said earlier, someone's ratings are falling, someone's ratings are growing. Thanks to you, the DS currently has 30%, according to the latest research, and thank you for not doing anything, which you don't do, that you're not doing anything that you should do. The people recognize again those who want to take responsibility and do things. Secondly, no one in this Serbia can break the Rules of Procedure when they want to replicate anyone who is a member of Slobodan Milosevic's party and who is a member of the SPS. Each of us has the right to say what he's been through, experienced and left behind for the past ten and over years, trying to get through the problems we've all been through. A decade of wars, misery, humiliation, isolation, insult, lack of national integrity, a minimum of something that could be called human dignity, standing in line for bread, fuel shortages, electricity and anything. A decade without anything that could in any way be called human dignity. That's why there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure if anyone wants to replicate anything Mr. Dacic says about anything that someone who says at the end of their exposure says it's demagogy. Of course, demagogy is all what the party Slobodan Milosevic says, of course, that demagogy is all what people who created Jezda and Dafina, who made millions of inflations, who brought to the lowest level everything that existed in Serbia. We are, unfortunately, still treating the consequences of this "great" ten-year rule, those laws that destroyed everything, and the economy that was based on social demagogy, because everything that existed was financed from the budget, because whoever wanted to write down what he wanted, whoever wanted to finish what he wanted, because the plan-made agony was out of which, unfortunately, we still don't have a way out. Mr. Chairman, it is a shame not to warn anyone who is speaking from this pay phone (who is not worth mentioning) and in such a bad context is talking about the late prime minister and his tragic death; therefore, the most tragic case that happened in Serbia, thanks to those who brought this Serbia to where they brought it. Please do not in the future violate the dignity of this assembly, the people of Serbia and Mr Djindjic, the greatest man this Serbia has ever had, the man who has done reforms and transition, which, unfortunately, those who rule today are destroying in the worst way possible. But it is fortunate, given that those who support this government, and who should be ashamed of it, will obviously no longer vote for these laws, as the head of their parliamentary group has just said before, so, just as the laws that are currently on the agenda fall, because they are not even minimally agreed with each other, very almost certainly fall and this government that no longer deserves to lead this Republic of Serbia for one day.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8696	Please, wait a minute, wait a minute, we have two replicas and we'll end up with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8697	Very briefly, therefore, before this government falls and before citizens assess the ratings of our political parties, I sincerely hope that DS will somehow survive the two phenomena that have hit them lately, which are obvious. The first is the acquisition of the ideology of Cedomir Jovanovic, and the second is an infection with the Civil Union of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8698	Another replica, deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that everyone has the right to say what they want, but it would be fair to say a little bit more, in addition, to stick to the fact. I'm saying this -- a little bit, because DS MPs don't stick to facts at all. It is interesting that as a broken record, they have been telling the same story for decades when the Socialists were in power, not mentioning at all why UN sanctions were imposed; whether they were against it, and it seems they were, to help Serbs outside Serbia, to receive refugees from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, to protect state dignity, to protect human rights. It's interesting to me that this whole story has been repeated for years, and you might think, if someone had power like the Democrats, they've turned the sky and the earth upside down, and there's nothing wrong with it, and not that they'd be accused of that famous abuse of official position, but they wouldn't wait for the light of day. I'm talking about "we wouldn't wait for the light of day," when we see, through this trial, with which all the criminals they met and hung out with. Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić, you mean, please, and if you don't want me to remind you to mention your involvement in what happened to Serbia, so tell us how it is possible that the president of your party at the time of NATO aggression will lecture in Germany and justifys the aggression of NATO, explain it to Serbia. Germany's most influential PR agency has announced it, the NIN reported it, and none of you have denied it. Explain how it is possible to rob Serbia through privatisation, sell a thousand of the best companies for two billion euros. How is it possible, as legalists, that 12,000 people without a court decision are being held in prison? And, uh, you're missing the socialist status story. Look at these people sitting here, look at the socialists on the ground, and look at you. The personal status of each of us can be checked in the tax administration of each municipality and you should avoid that story. You had three years to file a complaint against whoever you wanted, you didn't do it because you had nothing to take. You showed in the robbery what is the essence of your policy, so just sell Serbia as cheap as possible and fill your pockets. You don't care about Serbia. If you wanted to do what you wanted to do, you had time. Serbia is more on its tail in Europe because of you. You had opportunities and you did not. Why? Because you are not interested. You are not interested, because Serbia does not interest you, you are only interested in pockets and leave us socialists alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8700	You're not an authorised representative. Are you an authorised representative? Wait a minute, please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8701	Under the authority signed by the vice-president of the National Assembly, Dusan Petrovic, who received as a general authority from the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Pajtic. Since the President of the Assembly accepted at the beginning of the debate on the points on the agenda, which are the socio-economic council and the law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, that I be the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, after four days, or after three days, as Mr Zoran Angelkovic mentioned yesterday, the legitimacy of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group cannot be disputed because we have engaged in the debate. If, Mr. Chairman, you are still on the stand to challenge the possibility of representing the DS parliamentary group under these two laws, then you have the authority to return the debate to the beginning, so that we can re-negotiate the laws in principle, first on the socio-economic council, and then on the law on peaceful work dispute resolution. Of course, the DS doesn't mind if we get the debate back to square one, so please either give me your word as an authorised representative or make a decision to open the debate in the principle of the socio-economic council law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8702	You have a word for a minute and something and use your right...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8703	To explain to you on what basis I answered, because you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8705	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97(2), as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, I have the right to replication. So no one from the DS or any party calling themselves a party of democratic orientation is obliged to explain anything to anyone who is a member of the SPS. Was the work of the Democratic Party and the previous government headed by the late prime minister, but also with Prime Minister Zivkovic, bad enough to say the fact that the parties that make up the ruling coalition are bad enough. For this you have evidence in the latest presidential elections, in the latest local elections, and in all possible public opinion and party ratings scans, according to the surveys, here as you can see in the newspapers today, that DS has a higher percentage of support in the people than all parties in the ruling coalition combined. So much for legitimacy. The SRS rating can be spoken of by the MPs of the SRS. That, of course, is not what I'm going to be getting into right now. As for what we've done, what I wanted to tell you, it's enough to say and what they've shown they can't do and ministers, especially those who come from the DSS ranks. The first thing Mr. Martian did, when he was elected Minister of Economy, was to announce a privatisation review. An ideal move to stop all those who intended to invest in Serbia. An ideal move to question all those who were so brave, and had confidence in the previous government, to invest in Serbia and try to initiate an increase in productivity of the economy, all that was so far and so deep, at the bottom, that something had to be done. The first thing he announced was an amendment to the Privatisation Act. None of it's been done. Neither the amendment of the Privatisation Act nor the revision of privatisation, nor the disclosure of any pact that would point to the fact that anything has been done wrong in the previous period. That's how it says the fact that he went through such a campaign in the presidential election. No law for which the ruling structure has announced that it will be changed, and it has been passed in the previous period, as a law that has done some evil, has been changed. No system law has been changed, because you realized you couldn't bring it any better, and that's a fact. And you can't bring it because you're a minority government, because those who aren't interested in reform support you, in European integration. You are faced with the fact that many of you, after adopting a resolution on European integration, do not want to work with you anymore, because the laws you propose and bring in this House are not on the path that we have adopted together, which is the way of European integration. So I really ask you – although a great deal of us are ashamed that some things behind this speaker have to be explained again, because we simply think we don't have time to explain but we have to do – try to work. Well, this isn't where you work. There's no work in our government. You have a responsibility for trouble and inaction. Our government works in secret. Our ministers work in secret and that's what this government is about. So be kind, concentrate, if you already support this government, help them do something, and when the Democratic Party takes power in the next election we'll show you right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8706	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prophetic, to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8707	Thank you. As for trust in the previous or this government, the previous government failed to address the issue of the flag from Kragujevac, or to start solving, nor the issue of the Mining-Topier Baseline Bor; as much as some foreign businessmen, foreign diplomats and managements of multinational companies had confidence in the government. Unlike the last three years, something has been resolved in the last seven months. As for action or inaction, in the light of European integration, I must remind you that those who ruled over the past three years have done too badly to Serbia. I guess in the light of European integration and the fact that anti-Hast protests have been made in the Republic Square, then, contrary to the law, the members of the gendarmes have been performed to carry some flags, banners, etc. After all, in the previous term, we could always hear from the head of the DOS Parliament Club that all those who report on the amendments are often the brakes of reform. Now, I'm asking you gentlemen, were you honest when you qualified to report on the amendment as a brake of reform or are you honest now that you often report on the amendments to each legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8708	Here you are, People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the 100th article by which the MP is obliged to address the Assembly and other MPs with respect. Ambassador Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić is something super or hyperactive, which is sometimes not good for health, and has no right to talk about Slobodan Milosevic in a negative context. President Slobodan Milosevic is the largest Serbian leader of the 20th century and time will show that we who speak so are right. When it comes to those ten years, time is also the best judge. From 1990 to 2000, it even lived better than it was after October 5th. Industrial production was higher at the time of sanctions than from 2000 to 2003. Even exports were higher than in 2001, 2002 and 2003. They're facts and they're arguments. And when it comes to the government of Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Djindjic, we know how it was at the time. Production's down, crime's up. There's never been more crime than there was in that time. In addition, members of the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic themselves admitted to hanging out with criminals. Well, no one from the SPS has ever hung out with criminals. One of the Deputy Prime Ministers said, six months or a year ago, half of the government was on Schiller Street drinking whiskey and swimming in pools. And the fact that DOS ministers were very involved is best known to Serbian citizens, and so do we. They were very involved in privatisation. They robbed Serbia. I just said about privatizing the Paracian cement factory. This is where DOS deputies said $15 million was taken. So, what did they take for the tobacco industry? What did they take for all these other companies? So the truth is on our side, and time is the best judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8710	Thank you. What now? What are you... Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8711	Paragraph 1 of Article 101 states: “The President of the National Assembly is taking care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly. ” Mr. President, there are a lot of riots here. Serbian citizens expect us to discipline ourselves, to do a lot of work, to pass laws, not to argue. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party who are attacking us, I'd like to tell you something -- you've made us very happy in Vojvodina, you've brought Bojan Kostreš, the man who has the only success behind him to marry, and -- lies, cheat, steal, you'll become president of the Executive Council of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8712	The word has a People's MP, Marko Krstin, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8713	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, I thank you for giving me the right to speak after 45 minutes. I'd like to make some changes to today's debate and yesterday's. Today we are talking about the draft law on peaceful settlement of work disputes. I think it's past September, December of last year, and for a change, I'd like to try to get back on the subject. I could blame the chairman for not applying Article 99 to which the speaker can speak only about the issue on the agenda. He hasn't applied Article 99 yet, and I'm asking him to apply it in the future. What's on our agenda? Well, that's an amendment to Article 30 that says the word "arbitr" is replaced by the words "service of legal aid". We've heard different stories here that the law is mandatory, that it's not mandatory, that workers will lose their wages and things like that. We're talking about that amendment. There are no amendments that replace the word "calm" with another word. So we have a complete replacement of thesis that we've been in for two and a half hours. So, we have applied the provision of Article 99. Rules of Procedure, we would have already solved this issue. Since we haven't applied it, we're discussing other issues. Let me get back to the amendment. Could the legal aid service be an arbitration officer? She couldn't be an arbiter, because she's so legally established that she's not required, that she's voluntary, and that, as the word itself says, she's doing legal aid to the citizens. Therefore, the citizen addresses the service of legal aid, if it exists in the municipality, to make a submission, to represent it in some dispute. Legal services under legal status are not qualified to be arbitration, i.e. to settle a dispute between the two parties. As for the mistake that really exists in this law, if by mistake we consider two non-compliant institutes in two laws that have not been passed, I think there will be an opportunity to correct it. It has to be fixed, because it's really a mistake. What that mistake can lead to is not difficult to assume. If both laws are passed, we won't have that standstill procedure. Therefore, that part of the provision will remain inapplicable. So the practical consequences are nothing. As for the obligation of this law, which has opened up here as a key question about Article 30, although there is nothing about it, I will warn you of the principle of volunteering of Article 5, according to which all individual labour disputes are absolutely voluntary and no one has to bring them before arbitration. Only collective disputes, when it comes to applying collective agreements, can be mandatory in certain activities and when it comes to certain issues. Participants of these collective agreements are parties in the process, but they are not citizens. So, so much for whether it's mandatory or not. Individuals aren't, and these are in certain cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8714	Thank you. There is a word from the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica, then Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8715	Dear People's MPs, I think you should adopt an amendment to the Serbian Radical Party MPs. As you yourself have seen, many Serbian Radical Party MPs have attacked this law as a bad law, which is directly contrary to the Constitution, with the Labour Act and the Strike Act. Article 30. The bill is in direct contrast with the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. I am sorry that there is no minister present here, who went out for this pay phone to allegedly defend this law, or Article 30, of course, very unprofessionally and legally unfoundedly. And the existing Law on a litigation procedure, so the one that is now being applied, knows the Institute of Peace of Procedure, but it's exactly tax-listed when it can be retired. It depends mainly on the party's disposition, as well as the Law on litigation. Therefore, the parties are required to agree to retire the procedure, and it cannot be an imperative norm to refer to the parties to agree. Therefore, in order for this law to be in line with the Law on Prosecution, the existing Law on Prosecution must be amended. Please accept this amendment. If you don't accept it, you carry out legal violence and you don't know what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8716	There is a word from MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is undeniable that an amendment to Article 30, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, should be accepted. If we keep an existing solution like this, whether it's a standstill or a standstill... It is true that the current Law on the Procedural Procedure provides for a standstill as an institute, that the law on litigation, which we have discussed in the previous days and which you certainly want to adopt, provides for some other institute than this, but what is the essence of this law and this amendment, is that you are trying to use some of the rights that you gave to workers by some other laws, in this way, to distort them in the application of these rights. In fact, even the Law on a litigation procedure, as a systemic and basic law, in its second member, where he gives the principles on which to operate, guarantees the parties the right to legal, equal and fair protection of their rights. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall be empowered to refuse to decide on the application for which it is responsible. What does it mean, in any case, that if the parties to the individual dispute are subject to judicial proceedings on the same factual and legal basis, the parties to the dispute are obliged to submit a joint motion to the court for a standstill? Does this mean that you hereby abolish the rights that you have given to the Law on Prosecution, the right to judicial protection that guarantees citizens the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the rights that guarantee and the many international conventions we have signed, does this mean that you will now change the entire legal system by this law? I don't think you have the right to force citizens to settle disputes in a peaceful manner, especially if it's a minimum wage dispute. In dozens and hundreds of enterprises in Serbia and over a year, workers do not even receive minimum salaries. When they succeed through the legal aid service, friends or lawyers make a lawsuit to the court and try to guarantee their rights in this Constitution, then you tell them – no, it can't, now after 15, 20 or 30 months, as long as you don't receive your salary, you'll agree with the same employer; now you'll have to find a common language within three days, even though the previous three years you couldn't do it. The Labour Act, which you have adopted in Article 121, states that the general act and the contract on work can provide for a procedure for the settlement of issues of dispute between the employer and the employee. It's a shame the ministry is here, so he can't answer these questions right now, he can't even hear the remarks. I think it's a shame when so many MPs come out to make their remarks that the minister won't hear it, and that at the same time he has the honour and the cheek to enter this room right before the session is over and he's giving us all a lecture on what we should do and how we should do. The labour law has already regulated the possibility of establishing arbitration. There is already this legal opportunity for employers and employees to resolve issues in this way, not through court. But this, gentlemen, is done immediately after the beginning of the dispute, after 15 days, after a month. This can't be done after a year, two or three. You, in the light of this law, have stated that similar solutions exist in America and the UK, and according to the system of "saw a frog bitch" and you decided to install it in the legal system. You forgot one very important thing, that you can't compare our legal system to the legal system of England. Those rules that apply here don't apply. Some things are respected there regardless of the law. Find this many companies in England or at least one, such as Serbia, where workers do not receive salaries for 30 months. Such a thing is simply in the legal systems of developed countries completely impossible. For us this law, in this form as you have suggested, certainly nothing good will do us any good. You protected your employers when you passed the Labour Act. We also criticized that law. We told you then that law would allow you to fire thousands of workers. You claimed it wasn't true, it would raise the economy. Turns out we were right, thousands of workers were fired, and now this little rights you gave under the Labour Act you want to take away from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8718	According to Business, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8719	Since Mr. Krstin said that DS MPs spoke about this amendment without speaking in fact about an amendment that is on the agenda, I want to explain to you what I've said several times – of course we couldn't pass such an amendment, because we are voting against the law on litigation. I have reported for something else, because for other amendments, we will explain the discrepancy of the legal system again, which will result in the fact that you will adopt these laws that are on the agenda. I propose that the chairman interrupt the current meeting of this National Assembly because of the fact that Mr. Minister does not attend the amendment debate again. Let me remind you, the DS was at the end of the session yesterday, when the minister came and explained the amendments that were then on the agenda... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? I told you, members of 100th and 99th, that's why I called. I'd like to say that yesterday we suggested an extension of the working day so Mr. Minister could attend, hear our remarks that were indeed established. The Democratic Party believes that this law is needed by Serbia, that workers need it, because they need a way to resolve the disputes they are having peacefully, but we also have serious objections. We can't make those remarks without having a reaction from the government. We can't make any remarks without having a reaction from the minister responsible for passing this law. You refused to continue to work yesterday, although we wanted to take advantage of the opportunity, and we hear that the minister may have other obligations during the working day, so that he attends the session during the night and respects the amendments of the MPs, and there are as many as 55. Unfortunately, we are now no longer in a position to get a good answer or to wait for the end of this session to end again. I really suggest that the Assembly declare whether we can interrupt this session until the minister shows up and that we continue the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8720	I would ask the MPs not to abuse their rights and call on Article 100, because you can truly lead everyone under it. I don't think the Parliament's dignity is compromised and I'm asking if anyone else is answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Zivkov has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above article 31 be deleted and Article 31 be amended. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, to delete the title "Arbitr's Procedure", and in this further text, instead of the word "arbitr", the word "legal aid" would be used. You have already heard about previous amendments to the other SRS MPs so that the legal aid service can carry out a process of resolving work dispute at the local level. In the meantime, until we explain the situation of the Arbitrarian and the Peacekeepers, as you have called them in this bill of yours – which cannot be called a law, since there is no legal stability, there is no legal basis, and in the end there are no sanctions which could not be settled – the following text says that the debate is being held in the presence of the party in the dispute, I am now only interested in one thing: how will the Arbitr or the Peacekeeper take sides in a dispute that has been disputed, such as the employer and the worker who lost his job or wants to gain the right to do the job, if it is a minimum profit, how will he make the employer to settle the dispute peacefully and to agree? Therefore, it is a very important situation regarding this member. The legal aid service opens a debate on whether all invited persons attend the debate. In order for this dispute to be conducted, both sides need to give consent to the conduct of the dispute. In the meantime, the situation is happening, and mostly in most cases, that one party is not interested in the dispute, and I don't think that such a dispute can happen. In the light of this law, there is a possibility that a peaceful settlement procedure can be initiated by parties to the dispute jointly. That's the problem where the dispute most likely can't happen in most cases. Either only one party, in which case the other party is called upon to plead or accept a peaceful dispute resolution. Of course, the other side won't come forward because it doesn't want that kind of dispute to happen. The peacemaker and arbiter, according to your argument, can be selected a person who is a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro, has a high professional standing and an internship of five years of experience. Where you'll find so many people and how you'll choose them to be appropriate to do their job. So, in this further explanation, the peacemaker and the arbiter have certain rights and responsibilities. Here you have stated that they only have the right to receive compensation for their work, and it is their duty to do their job on their own conscience and best knowledge. Who can explain that, to say by which way that will be done with their conduct or knowledge, this dispute will be conducted. So there's no legal basis and it's not regulated properly. The funds for the prize and compensation shall be provided from the budget of the Republic. This is the goal of the agency, the peacemakers and the arbiter, to spend the funds you have provided from the Republic's budget, which in this explanation is 10 million dinars. There's another situation that's interesting. As for arbitration and the selection of arbitarians and peacemakers, some MPs from the province, who remember very well that the electoral commission held elections at the AP Vojvodina level, might agree. For many lists and party representatives, the forms where the signature was sought, support for the party list, but in that form, knowledge was also to be given in quality which, which is professionally prepared and was about to require the number of shoes of citizens who support the list. It turns out, therefore, that the electoral commission could elect these peacemakers and arbitarians since they now possess a complete situation where, who and how much it supports a parliamentary group and which party. I would like to refer to the presentation of the minister, which took about 20 minutes before the end of the working day yesterday, that perhaps we MPs who disagree with the bill that should be passed are not on the same path. We may not be on the same path, but I believe the SRS is on the right track and that it certainly wants Serbia's citizens well to exercise their rights. As far as the trains are concerned, since he mentioned the minister and we're not on the same train, I think we may not be on the same train, but our train is heading in the right direction, and your train may have run out of track. The road. Now are you going to move that section of the railroad forward so we can move on?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8722	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8723	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, yesterday we called on Minister Lalovic to comment with us on amendments to the draft law on peaceful dispute resolution. The minister disobeyed our calls, as he did today, because he's been gone all day. Yesterday, he even deceived citizens, or employees of the Task Force Industry in Kragujevac, because he told them that he could not come there because he had obligations in the National Assembly and then the minister, in the manner of the Ministers of Kostunica's Government, appeared after this pay phone about 17.45, estimated that at that time the highest ratings of the work of this assembly and then the minister kept the MPs one political hour. Of course, he has no right to do that, he couldn't do that. He could have spoken as a People's MP, because he is a People's MP, but in that case he had to come forward and talk about the amendment to Article 30, because then the amendment was current and he could only speak for five minutes, as much as the other MPs. That was what the speaker of the assembly was supposed to draw attention to, at the time of the chairmanship. The insolence was yesterday by Minister Lalovic's remarks when he said the MPs, before commenting on the bill and amendments, should read the law they comment on. Why was that insolent? Because I guess it's obvious that SRS MPs here have commented on every letter of this law. It is possible that those who will vote for the law did not read, that the minister's remarks applied to them, but it seemed to me he was looking in our direction, so maybe they should read and see that there is no need to pass such a law and vote for it. The minister also said the MPs in their discussions expressed some regret for the past times. It seems to me that the minister has regrets for the former communist times and for his trade union performance in those times, and it is obvious that in that sense he has made a proposal for this law. We've also been transferred by the minister to talk here about unrelated work experience, and that problem is more than 10 years old. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. I hope he reads the stenographic notes. First, let me tell him, and tell everyone who is thus saying that what has been destroyed for 10 years, if it has been destroyed, is enough four years to fix it, and in particular Minister Lalovic, since he was in power since the beginning of 2001, he and his party. I specifically talked about two cases, the failure to pay the workers of "Progress" from Rakovica in the time since 2002, and the workers of "Inos-Podunnova", who have not been paid the internship since February 2003. I really don't see where the minister made the connection with someone, as he says, past times, except for his regrets for those times. This morning, again, the minister replicated a colleague related to the peace institute provided for in this law, and it was indeed a sort of mockery of the MPs. Mr. Minister, even though you're not listening to us, you need to know that MPs are responsible and smart people and that no minister can play with us. No minister can give us a lecture, and we can, and that's the difference between us and the minister, because it depends on us, and we depend on the citizens who chose us. We stand responsibly here in front of the citizens, at least we MPs of the SRS. The minister says we are talking about an institute of rest that is not foreseen by the law on litigation, and the law has not yet been passed. We are not here, Mr. Lalovic, in absentia, to play with neither the Parliament nor the laws. I guess whoever proposes the laws knows that on the same day, two laws are being discussed or in the same week and two laws are being proposed in college. Is it the minister announcing changes and additions to this law, since it is certain that the law on litigation will be passed. Since I've wasted my time, I'll proceed with the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8724	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 31, the procedure before the arbitration is in order. In the position of the proposed member, the Proposer proposes - the arbitration panel is obliged to hold a hearing within three days of the date of receipt of the proposal and documentation on the matter of the dispute and informs the parties in the dispute. I suppose he should inform one of the parties in the dispute if he received the necessary documentation from one of the parties in the dispute. However, this is a short term. For example, if you have a very complex case between Galenika and Hemofharm, for example, where hundreds and hundreds of millions are concerned, for which a fair court ruling is to be made, or here the conclusion of a peaceful settlement agreement between the parties, is the question of whether this arbitration officer will be able to read the files that have thousands of pages or documents within three days, the authentic documents that are piled up? He can't. Can he find one of the parties in this procedure within three days and provide them with an orderly call for a public hearing? He can't. It can't be done in three days by the police, to bring in the defendant, not that this arbiter has the opportunity to ensure the presence of both parties to conclude one settlement. These deadlines are unacceptable. They are not known even in parallel law, and they are also not known in our domestic legislation. If this possibility was to be provided for and given to an arbitration officer, then it was primarily necessary to set a reasonable time limit within which the parties in the proceedings before the arbitration panel would be able to prepare for the hearing and, on the other hand, the time period of the arbitration panel to study the files. And especially the problem is even bigger, which will appear if the arbiter is a person who has no law school and who does not have a legal exam. How will this man apply the standard of material law? Not at all. What will happen in the end when the settlement is concluded or a peaceful dispute settlement agreement is concluded? One party later sees that in error and deception it has concluded such alignment. In the draft law, there is no word on whether or not a final agreement can be refuted. There's no institute or instrument like that. With the settlement closed, ladies and gentlemen, it's one mutual agreement between the parties that concludes the alignment. This settlement of the party in the proceedings may be refuted by the action and may also be refuted by the legal remedy, if, in the settlement, it is possible to introduce freedom to the parties that, if a party fails to comply with the obligation, they may act in accordance with the Implementing Procedure Act. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the question is the authority of the arbitration panel itself, the issue is the process of conduct, the opening of the debate, the carrying out of evidence, the evaluation of evidence and the making of an appropriate decision. Therefore, the SRS will strongly oppose such bill proposals because these laws, which are proposed, such as this bill, are ordinary brochures, no offenses, which cannot be applied in practice. Second, they do not have a foothold in the Constitution, they do not have a foothold in the Law on Liaison, they do not have a foothold in the Law on Criminal Procedure, they do not have a foothold in the Law on Executive Procedure. I propose to Mr. Minister, however, he is a man of longer working experience, I believe that he has studied these objections to the SRS and MPs who are carefully preparing for each session, reading every proposal from the Government, and every draft law is thoroughly studying and proposing a certain improvement, and even proposing, where the need arises, to withdraw the bill. Article 30 obliges the minister, this may be a failure, I am not saying that it was the minister's intention, but Article 30 states that the proceedings are still in place, and that, according to the applicable law, this way is impossible, and at the same time I point out that in the new draft law on litigation proceedings, there is no such procedure. So how can this come to life? Not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8726	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8727	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers, after such a debate, with so many arguments and so much effort, as my predecessor mentioned, with how many MPs have tried to fix or instruct the ministry that this solution is neither in line with the constitutional and legal system in Serbia, I really do not believe that there are any comprehensive solutions, nor that it can achieve the objective of the law that he allegedly proposes to the Assembly for adoption. I must say, when the minister was exposed, when he responded to Mr Milan Markovic, it seems to me, that there was a slip or that the minister did not serve the truth until the end. The minister himself noted that article 30 in this law is problematic, as the rest of the proceedings are no longer under the law of litigation. He then initiated the appointment of a session of the Legislative Committee, to change the word "restriction" through the legal-technical regulation of the text and to insert the word "stop" instead. The truth is, there was a debate about it. I was against it on the Legislative Committee, because I think it's not a legal-technical order, but it's a complete replacement of the Institute of Procedural Law. Rest has one legal consequence, and the stasis institute has a completely different legal consequence. That's what the predecessors were talking about. I had an obligation to tell the MPs, to be aware of the events on the Legislative Committee. So, the minister is looking for an opportunity to get out of this situation, so it is likely to be used the right to submit an amendment in the voting day if the Assembly adopts the proposed solutions in the draft law on litigation. We'll probably see about that and see about that in a few days, when it's voting day. As for Article 31, which regulates the conduct of proceedings before the arbitration panel, I believe that this provision is also contrary to the general principles of procedural law. The last point is said: "Any party in the dispute can withdraw the motion to initiate proceedings before the arbitration no later than the day of the debate." In the litigation procedure and in any other procedure, the party shall be empowered to make its request available. Anyone may withdraw the request until the decision is completed, because only after the decision has been made is it considered that it violates the principle of legal certainty. Until then, it is a disposition of parties and parties can decide on their own when to give up and thus terminate the procedure. There are many reasons why the parties are empowered to withdraw the request for the conduct of the proceedings, and above all that is the reason for economics, so that the other party and the party themselves are no longer subject to unnecessary costs, so as not to involve the third party, the State, which is to arbitration in resolving the dispute. Any party can withdraw a request for a solution to the dispute whenever it wishes, until a decision is made. So the solution offered here is contrary to the principles of conduct in the procedures governed by the law. Article 31, paragraph 4, says, "If one of the parties in the dispute unwarrantedly falls behind in the debate, the arbitration panel may hold a debate in its absence." However, this legal standard "unwarrantedly lags behind the debate" is so widespread that no condition or reason to appreciate whether the absence is justified or unwarranted is established. On the other hand, no deadlines have been set for the party to justify its absence, whether earlier or later, during the debate. The party to the procedure which was reasonably absent, but was unable to address the arbitration officer and inform him in good time, must have the possibility of returning to the previous situation. It's not supposed to be here. So there are all the shortcomings in the conduct that are not foreseen by this law. This law makes it inappropriate and inappropriate to implement. I once again urge the minister to withdraw this proposal from the assembly procedure, while there is still time for that. Otherwise, if it is adopted with such or something modified content, it will bring legal chaos into the legal system. Only an evil MP, only a Serbian citizen can wish to adopt such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8728	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8729	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since the minister has arrived, we will invite him once again to come to his senses and withdraw this law from the agenda. Why? Because this law is the way, that is, the way in which those minimum rights guaranteed by the Labour Act will be denied. What does it mean, "Arbitar is required to schedule a hearing within three days of the date of receipt of the proposal and documentation on the case of the dispute and informs the parties in the dispute"? This, gentlemen, when interpreted, means that the arbitration panel will determine within three days when the debate will be held, and does not mean that the debate will be held for the longest time in three days. So, the arbiter can say, the debate will take place after four and a half months. I remind you that this is about a payout dispute, where workers are told that the parties to the dispute are obliged to submit joint requests to the court for a standstill. Even if the arbiter had scheduled a hearing within a more appropriate period, it would have been 15 or 20 days, and the next position would have been, the debate would be held in the presence of the parties in the dispute and the arbiter. What if one of the parties doesn't come to the dispute and justifies his absence? We have had such a situation so far under the Law on Prosecution, and this has allowed discussions to be conducted suddenly. This law prevents a working dispute that is urgent in its nature and which must be completed within six months. In this way it doesn't have to come to the beginning of that debate for more than a year, because there's no deadline here. Therefore, if one of the parties to the dispute is unduly absent from the debate, the arbitration panel may hold a hearing in its absence, taking into account the documentation provided by the party. What happens if one of the parties in the dispute doesn't attend the debate, and at the same time doesn't provide documentation, whether something like a verdict will be brought here because of the absence in the litigation process, and how it's possible that someone is conducting arbitration and that in a peaceful manner solves the dispute if there are no two sides in the dispute, and what happens then. Finally, the final position that is disputed says any party in the dispute can withdraw a motion to initiate proceedings before the arbitration no later than the day of the debate. What if one of the parties makes use of that right, which means he can withdraw the motion to open the proceedings until the debate is opened, if the previous member of the law says that the parties in the dispute are obliged to submit a joint request for a standstill. Does this mean that after this, the party in the dispute, i.e. the employer and the employees, will be obliged to submit a new proposal, whether this will be used only for the purpose of abuse of rights and for the purpose of suspending, or halting, the litigation of the proceedings. How many times can a procedure be initiated to settle disputes peacefully? In the end, I repeat once again the question of the Minister, how will this member of the law affect Article 121. The labour law, which is the basic law in this area, and this law on peaceful resolution can be a lek specialis and must be in everything in line with the provisions of the Labour Act. Whether this negates the peaceful settlement procedure, or the consensual settlement of disputes, as it is called here in the Labour Act, and whether this means that these provisions cease to exist, or which means that these provisions will be applied in parallel. But they're completely unnecessary. So we can have one or the other. If you remain in adopting this law on peaceful work dispute resolution, then you need to change a lot of things in the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8730	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Branislav Rankic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 32 of the Law on the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes includes the peaceful resolution of the so-called so-called so-called peace of mind. individual disputes and refer to the public holding the debate. However, the reason why this amendment is not accepted is not about the public, but about the fact that it is the same as the amendment to Article 2 so I will start defending this amendment. At the end of the argument, it is said that the work of professional assistance in municipalities is carried out by employees, and the jobs of peaceful work dispute resolution require independent, impartial experts, etc., and it is likely that these people working in the municipality will be biased. Now it is necessary to say that it will be unbiased. In one case, for example, a company whose majority owner is a state-owned company, if there is a labour dispute, an individual, since companies with majority state-owned property generally sign individual working contracts, if one such dispute occurs, how unbiased will the arbiter be. First, whoever represents a state-owned company will have no interest in voluntary acceptance of the arbitration panel with the other side. So, he will insist that no agreement be reached on the election of the arbiter, because in that case, the arbiter will appoint the director of the agency. The director of the agency is appointed by the government and, of course, the arbitration officer he has appointed will have to be biased. So not only can he not be impartial, but he'll have to be biased, that is, to protect the interests of the government, because they chose him. Will he suffer any consequences if he is biased? He won't do anything, and why? Because this bill, like the previous one, has no criminal provisions and that's one thing. The second thing that could possibly happen is that the agency deletes the Arbitrarian directory. However, it will not be deleted for impartiality, for there are exactly ten reasons why the arbiter can be deleted here, and among these ten reasons there is no bias in the procedure. Therefore, if MPs on this left hand side, one of them has a law in front of them instead of newspapers, and I tried to speak from member to member and convince you that there was no point in insisting on this law anymore, because you could really follow these members now that an arbitration officer in a future process for peaceful dispute resolution would have to be biased. What else is there to withdraw this bill? You have also stated in your explanation that this is the law of the United Kingdom, Belgium and Hungary. Hungary brought it in for the same reasons that we are now bringing in, and in Great Britain and Belgium, these laws have come out a little differently. In fact, there, in the 1960s and 1970s, they appeared in their local environments, some people in social and economic miles who had the authority to have some work disputes to solve, and hence they were desirable. Because if there was a work dispute, whether one or the other party could address them, and based on authority, they managed to solve it, and then simply that phenomenon interested the authorities, which took such a phenomenon as desirable and useful for society and wished for such people in different environments to register, and when they registered them, then they needed to edit their work with one law. That's how this law came into existence in those countries. However, we want to produce a phenomenon by law, we want to produce people by law, as it is said here, from reputation, who, by means of education, will gain that reputation. I guarantee you that no education can be gained, and the fact that it will have to be educated, won't even be allowed to refuse, that only says that these people will have to learn things, similar to those taught by various seminars in Segedin. All their actions are aware that, following the reactions of the conversators in resolving these work disputes, they feel when a conversation is close to giving and that practically one party in the work dispute is being deceived. The moment he cheats on one side and agrees to sign what the peacekeeper, or the arbitrationian, wants, he will then be deemed to have successfully ended the dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8732	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8733	Ladies and gentlemen, just now, due to the time, I have failed to complete my thought about the institute of a standstill procedure provided for in this law on peaceful work dispute resolution, and it's good, because the minister was not here before, so I have to repeat what I said. Mr. Minister, this morning you tried to make fun of the MPs when you explained that the institute of order in this bill and the draft law on litigation has nothing to do with it, because you don't know whether a law on litigation will be passed. I'm asking you -- if it really is, will you immediately suggest amendments and additions to this law, which at the same time will be contrary to that law of litigation. This institute automatically challenges you, because such an institution could not pass the assessment of constitutionality and legality by the Constitutional Court. You should take care of that, because you're sitting in the same government with a minister who was an authorised representative under this previous law. When it comes to the amendment submitted by counterpart Rankic to Article 32. The bill, it's about us proposing a change in the word "arbiter" to "legal aid". Now I want to explain something that's been heard here several times. In principle, we wanted to make it clear to the government and the assembly majority that we from the SRS are against the introduction of new institutions into our legal system, that we are against some peacemakers, arbitrationists, committees, and I don't know what you didn't anticipate here and, of course, the unforgiving agencies, since no law can pass without any new agency. We did not determine the jurisdiction of legal aid. In principle, we said that this could be done by legal aid, fully aware that the Law on Local Self-Government and the Regulation governing the work and jurisdiction of legal aid should also be amended. So now I'm going to talk about a concrete amendment and the position of Article 32, which is very similar to the position of the 4th previous member, and he says that if one party in the dispute unwarrantedly falls behind with the arbitration hearing, the arbitration panel can hold a debate in its absence. This is just amazing. Well, I guess you're following up on what's written in the paper. Even the infamous UN tribunal has given up its right to defend the defendants. How can you talk about how an arbiter can argue in the absence of one of the parties in the dispute? It's just amazing. Similarly, you have this solution in Article 32(2) where you predicted that an arbitration officer could rule out the public at the request of the parties to the dispute, if that is why there are legitimate reasons. Well, why would we do things like this in secret? Is there any valid reason for anything in the country to be done far from the public eye. You tried to do it the other night, here, to keep some of the transfer of this assembly away from the public's eyes, but fortunately, you stopped on time, although it was more than an hour ago and many things were missed by Serbian citizens, and they could hear it then. (Glass - how can you talk like that? ) Dear colleague, you came to this congregation three and a half minutes ago and leave us who have been working since this morning to do what we think we should do. So this institute, I assume, is predicted for one single reason, that, for example, it would hide from the public's eyes when there's a dispute about selling Telecom, I assume you want to do it in secret, that the citizens of Serbia don't know that George Soros is going to buy Serbian telephony. These and such things you are trying to hide from the public's eyes, and then it is camouflaged into some totally irrelevant laws, like this law on peaceful settlement of work disputes, and through that, of course, you are hiding and the fact that you are not prepared to present before the National Assembly a draft labour law, that we are discussing it and that we finally pass a law from which Serbian citizens will benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8734	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8735	The amendment submitted by SRS MP Branislav Rankic follows the concept of the first member, however, it would be best if this member, as well as many others, were deleted previously. As we have information that the Government, which is in big trouble because of the accumulated and served draft laws, which the Secretariat of the Legislative has not done well, so now the media has already announced, is ready to withdraw certain drafts of the law from the agenda, it is best to save further efforts for MPs, and to save workers from further misery, Mr. Minister, and to withdraw this bill. Because if what is disputed in front of the competent arbitration officer can be public, which is provided for in Article 32, unless a particular party prevents or does not allow it, that this session was public, unless within the hour, when the President of the Assembly allegedly did not know what was going on and that basketball was instead of the assembly transfer, and since the public was familiar with the smallest details, thanks to the MPs of the SRS, how executed this bill is, it would be best for you to carry out the withdrawal of this law. You weren't in the O.R., Mr. Lalovic, when I told you that the big problem with setting up a law like this and his disagreement with the Law on Prosecution was that the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, Mr. Balinovac, did not inform you. And that's why, and we're always going about it, it's impossible, as far as you're supposed to be, what you guys like to say, new or old, is transparent, and this proposal of Article 32 predicts that something is public, if it's inconclusive, and if there's no sanctions under this law. On the other hand, you're forcing the workers into something they won't. If they can't, and usually they can't calm down and can't settle their work dispute peacefully, then they're forced to go to court. The most indicative is the explanation, and it's now repeated, you've given an explanation. We are now with the 32nd member, and by reason of Article 1 of Mrs Pop-Lazic, you have listed numerous countries, both overseas and many Europeans, where these standards are reportedly applied. But it would be good, if you were to call on it, to tell us what the salaries are there, what is the percentage of unemployment, how many labour disputes and their possible peaceful resolution take place over the year, say, in Germany or in the UK. Are these workers as hopeless as we are here? No, they're not. That's why it's a big issue, and it's a big problem how foreign investments are going to come here, because this government has also shown through instability, through total disorientation in terms of economy, the national issue, and the most important thing is what individual ministries should be dealing with, and that's the economy, that it can't provide legal certainty or an economic environment for these investors to come. Instead of promoting such projects here, instead of Boris Tadic, a model who only paints himself, who promised in a pre-election campaign that he would hire people, in this co-habitation with Kostunica, so Bubalo, who was elected new minister, would also leave, from the position of the economy minister, to discuss everything that was in robbery privatisation, and instead of creating conditions for the workers to start and work, we really need to tell them that this government does not want to help them even achieve their rights, because this law will completely draw them away from it. It doesn't give them the opportunity to work it out effectively and briefly. That's why it's best that the bill withdraws from the procedure. You will see later by the jurisdiction of the arbitration officer, in Article 32, and further, that this is an unequivocal and clear argument, and it would be best for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to immediately approach the amendment of the Law on Privatisation, amend the Labour Act and thus to go and show workers that someone thinks of them, because these are their demands. What have you, Mr. Lalovich, done to whom have you spoken? All the countries you're calling for don't have this kind of electricity prices, and they pay no or no minimum. There are no such prices for food products, there are not such prices for utility services. People live very differently there. I would understand that the salaries here are an average of 1,000 to 2,000 euros, that factories are working, that people have jobs, so possibly if the non-compliance of the contract happens, and they are forced to ask for it, to handle it peacefully with their employer, it is impossible here, especially by this law and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8736	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8737	I think there's a need to say a few things. First of all, it seems to me that few Members of Parliament who criticise the law are most at odds. On the one hand, they say the law is irrelevant, and on the other hand, there are obviously many MPs who comment. So either he's irrelevant, so let's not talk about him, or he's important. Something's wrong with that. Why am I saying that? Because it seems to me that there is largely some kind of obstruction when it comes to this law. Of course, it is the right of MPs to obstruct through frequent stages, but I simply think that it is necessary to establish and in this way, with a kind of obstruction, only delaying the moment when we will be able to apply this law and delay the moment when workers in Serbia will be able to resolve a large number of their disputes, to stress, since they are being manipulated here by deadlines, within the time limit. The law clearly states that a peacemaker or arbiter must resolve the dispute within 30 days. This means that those who obstruct the adoption of this law delay the time when workers will be able to know through these disputes within 30 days and to resolve their dispute, not to sit in courts for many years. Secondly, to point out here, I am pleased that individual MPs, getting to know the content of some solutions in some other countries, have found that these are standards that apply in a large number of European countries. Of course, there's a second comment here now. I think that the fact, which has been presented here by some MPs, is a good argument, of course, to adopt this law, because we are working on this regardless of the other circumstances, to bring our work and social legislation into line and to bring it into line with European labour and social legislation, since the government's goal is to bring Serbia closer to Europe, to include it in European integration and to make Serbia an EU member. On that road is one of the jobs of harmonising labour and social legislation. I mentioned here once that by March 2005, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro should adopt a revised EU Economic and Social Charter, in which there are 16 standards of law, and we need a minimum of nine in our legislation, labour and social, to have, to meet that standard. I think it shows, among other things, that the approximation of Serbia, which this government is working on, is one of the priorities of the European Union and at the same time is an activity that is in the best interest of Serbia's employment. One more note to make. There's a lot of talk here about our workers not having salaries as workers in European countries, not having that standard, being in a much harder position. Well, of course they're in a much harder position. The only thing you don't say here, and why are they and how did they get into that position? Why and how they came into that position, when Serbia's social product was down 60% from 1990 to 2000, when industrial production fell by two-thirds, when in Serbia in 2000 it was a moment of complete collapse and devastation. That's not what you're talking about, but it's said that workers are in a difficult position. Well, they certainly are. Let's see why. And secondly, very important, this government since March with its activities, the budget it has proposed here, the laws it has proposed here, the measures it takes in terms of speeding up privatisation, the construction of the economic environment, I know that many do not like it, but I am sure that what it does, and that Serbian citizens know and feel very well, regardless of these stories here, goes towards one simple thing, very simple, and that is to create conditions in which Serbia's social product will grow at least over 5% annually. I hope more than that, that there is a double-digit growth, because it is the only way, regardless of all possible demagogy and stories here and anywhere else that Serbian workers really come into a dignified material position, only if we increase the growth of the social product. Here, let's do math together. If in 1989 or 1990 we had so much and so much social product per capita, numerically, if in 2000 we had as much and as much social product as we had, the subject, as far as I can see, is by most MPs here, the economic and social programme of Serbia's employment. Please, I'm taking the opportunity to talk about it. So, on the condition that the social product in Serbia grows above 5% annually, we will reach the level of social product from 1990 over a decade. Let me tell you this in public here. It's math. You can say whatever you want. So I'm simply suggesting and suggesting, instead of obstructing this law, that we work together to create conditions in which the growth of the social product will be such as to restore the dignity of the workers of Serbia. This will not be restored by five MPs coming out to talk about one stuck in this law, but to talk seriously about it. So I'm simply calling you, of course, it's your right to talk about it, if possible, I don't think it's too possible, that we're not wasting too much time trying to get some political points through obstruction or what it's getting. I think we have some very serious business to do, and this government is working on it. As for the position of Serbia's employment, please don't let us know what the situation is now, so I guess everyone knows that. Let's see what we can do to improve that position quickly enough. That's what we're working on. So this government has done a huge part of the job in the last six to seven months. For 2005, it envisioned an intensive continuation of work on the recovery of the economy through restructuring of public enterprises, through a change in the image of Serbia and a picture of Serbia. This government will do it anyway. That I promise you, and the workers of Serbia will certainly be better. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8738	National MP Natasa Jovanovic - replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Lalovic, is an obstruction when an MP is not in the O.R. Not only are you not in the O.R. and in the sessions, MP Lalovic, but when you are present as Minister, and now I am speaking to you as Minister, I will continue to address you as Minister, you have not presented any relevant information from this pay phone. If you've been silent for two days, except for that political speech last night for 15 minutes, you'd better have covered your ears and sat on it. Do you now have your head of Parliament or the club giving lectures about it I don't know, but it would be nice if you heard what I'm about to tell you? It would also be good for Mr Aligrudic to allow you, MP Lalovic, and now I am speaking to you as Minister, listen to what I am about to tell you. In fact, you first showed what your intention was and what your role was after the five-octobaric coup that was carried out in this country, whose consequences are very quickly, and such "transitions" of such laws and such governments, were felt by citizens on their backs, and above all by workers. You were, and you remember it well, the secretary of the commission who was supposed to question corruption and question extraprofessors. The law that was opposed to the constitution you promoted. Extra-profit and extra-active law, you're the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one So, and then you were acting counter-constitutionally. Then what happened? Many of the items that concern your coalition partners at the time or those who supported you ended up in a drawer. You promoted Vuk Obradovic's affair, to dump him at that time, as the chairman of the commission, you as a secretary so well-showed that in a situation where several MPs, including you and your Social Democratic Party, should be a tab on the scale, make the majority in Kostunica's coalition. You knew very well that you were doing it when you were under the unfortunate previous DOS. You also knew very well that you were going on tour with Bogoljub Karic, who is as demagogue as you are. He waved green salads, peppers, stripping chains and locks, a man who never produced anything, and you as Minister of Labour and Employment instead of hiring workers, you tell us what happened in 1989 and 1990. Why didn't you tell us what happened, and you're a witness to these events and a passive and active participant of the DOS government since 2000, so here we go. Why don't you tell the speaker that this year we're going to have 7.5 billion foreign trade deficits? How, then, to create mechanisms and conditions and ambience for workers to work, when we have no export and when economic experts from various economic areas tell us that next year, if this trend continues, we will be a complete collapse of our economy if we do not start working, that we are not being produced. Since I am now speaking to you as a minister, since you say that the MPs of the SRS have been referring to us for two days now, they have been using time for nothing, we believe that this is not the case. He's telling us that we're on the phone all the time in the MP's group, that we're getting messages on our cell phones from workers robbed and sick, who don't want a minister like that, who doesn't want a government like this, they want Serbian radicals in power, they want to move on with production, they want crime and corruption stopped, they want someone in this country to start doing something. Enough distractions, enough of this nonsense. What hopelessness you're in will also show the afternoon course of the debate, when someone will appear, some phantom on behalf of the government to suggest that certain points be withdrawn from the agenda, and that what has arrived as a warrant to you is kept as a priority, which is the last point. So, Mr. Lalovic, you get to work nice, and all the workers who called me, and me personally and radicals, to complain about this bill, about your social status, about solving my disputes, I will personally send them to you in Germany, to the government, and you will receive them there nicely. Make sure there's tens of thousands of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8740	The word has Minister Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8741	And without sending them to me they're coming to talk to me. A lot of them are coming. I don't know who's coming to you, but I've got workers all over Serbia coming in, and they know their doors are open. Yesterday, when I was late here for the morning session, as you knew in part, I received representatives of the flag, weapons, leadership, unions and company administrations, where we discussed the fate of the company and the fate of Serbia's military industry. I'm just saying, we know what this is about. You're here, again we've entered some of the conditionally spoken political waters, a wider story than the law, past this topic. There is probably a lot to be said for this speaker, but one cannot be avoided, and this is the following: Serbia must create conditions in which a serious growth of the social product may occur in Serbia, which implies a serious growth in investment in the Serbian economy. To invest in Serbia's economy, Serbia must be a political and democratic country that respects Europe, if you're going to talk more widely. Serbia can be a country that respects Europe as political and democratic only on condition that it has a politically democratic stable power. This government, with all that has been said since the beginning, is a government that does its job very well, which does its job in very difficult conditions of heritage, again I say heritage, which is very difficult. And this government, to be clear, continues the reform course that began after October 5, 2000, which lasted, in my opinion, about a year and a half, when it gave up, so we lost two years in implementing reforms, so this government has started to speed up this reform course since March, set off in the second half of this year to speed up the privatisation process, to pass a law on companies. You'll have a law on bankruptcy, you'll have a law on work here, you'll have a law on safety at work here, you'll have a new strike law, that's all of a single mile that this government is creating, that Serbia will start in 2005, because this year we've had a growth of social product of about 7%, it's estimated growth. This is all we're doing now, since it's been mentioned here a couple of times, right now, and to inform you, including certain measures in the form of a decision that the government is preparing, essentially to protect domestic producers and the problems we have about the external trade deficit, which is obviously what you're talking about. So next year we have to seriously reduce the external trade deficit, we have to keep the growth of the social product to at least 6% or 7%, we have to, if we want to do anything serious at all. So, within these activities, I think this government is doing very well, giving its contribution to Serbia's development, and I expect that in the coming year it will be visible and visible to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia what this government is doing in their best interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8742	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8743	Dear People's MPs, we are continuing today's session at the afternoon session. I ask the Members of Parliament to establish the quorum before the beginning of the work. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. 154 MPs are officially present, and using the electronic system, we have found that there are enough MPs for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Meho Omerovic, Slobodan Mihajlović and Ivan Josimov. That's usually a notice from this morning, but it wasn't read. There's still a replica of the afternoon section. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8744	Mr. President, you were not there, just like MP Slobodan Lalovic, or Minister, and it is incomprehensible that he is not presently present in the session. I'm not saying he ran away, but my replica has been announced. There was plenty of time and I believe that you chaired that moment instead of Mr. Mihajlovic to give me the opportunity, because in three minutes I would say what I had to say to the MP, or Minister Lalovic. Namely, for all those who did not follow, which for fellow MPs, which was for the general public, it was that the minister wanted to say in favour of his silence for two days, and finally he spoke and made a counter-regulation against what the Serbian Radicals put forward, that we, in the way we talk about the proposed law, which is inadmissible, which is opposed above all to the Constitution and the law on litigation, which is yet to be voted on, we want to do an obstruction of work and actually stop so-called. reforms by the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member is now Slobodan Lalovic. Then he called for a period of earlier, of course not to mention a period back four years, whose actor he is, because I will remind you, his Social Democratic Party was a member of the ruling DOS conglomerate until the moment when, with Bogoljub Karic's speech, the tycoon who wants to buy everything in Serbia and whose intensity is to continue to buy MPs in this assembly and in this assembly, they did not turn the turkey upside down and did not oppose Zoran Zivkovic. The epilogue you all know. The Democratic Party and all satellites around it experienced a debacle in last December's December 28th elections, and Slobodan Lalovic and SDP found a holdover in Kostunica's new government with several mandates. That is already the problem of Kostunica and the problem of Lalovic's lack of understanding of the essence of the problem. I can understand him. If he has been in trouble for 30 years since he was a member of the Communist Union, if he is still at the time of Edward Cardell and Joseph Broz, the Serbian radicals have not been with such awareness of our economy, of the transition, of what is done, we have already made it clear and loud 13 years ago that we need to make privatisation, many years ago that we have to ensure the social protection of our citizens, and above all of the workers, and above all those whom Lalovic allegedly wants from the position of the minister and the proposal of this law, as he said, Mr. President, which was my cause for replication, to create an institutional ambience that is not created since this government or at least we don't see it. If it takes so long, if problems build up, if, after his recognition, the external trade deficit is 7.5 billion, it has to be recognised and that's the case. If the state is still in financial debt, if workers do not get new jobs, then they are free of the union communist time story, which is being promoted by Slobodan Lalovic here. (President: Time. ) So it would be best if he followed our advice, because we say this as completely opposed ideological opponents, because our concepts really differ in diameter. He's about to retain some condition that was many years ago, from a totalitarian period that ruined our country and our society, and we'd like to change things. Serbian radicals are for fundamental changes, that people have factories, that they have somewhere to work, that they can live honestly from their work, to support their family. Therefore, our message is for Lalovic and whoever wrote this law to him, and above all the government of the Republic of Serbia, to simply raise their hands out of everything, because it is obvious that they are not capable of it. There are people who know it and know it better. (President: Please, four and a half minutes. ) These are members of the SRS, MPs and all those who, and they show this everywhere in municipalities and cities in Serbia, taking over the local government, took responsibility for doing much better and much more responsible. That is why we offer legal advice at the level of municipalities. I told you in the morning session that there were legal experts. Maja Gojkovic in Novi Sad, Gordana Pop-Lazic in Zemun, Radicals, perhaps less famous and wider public in all municipalities and cities in Serbia, where we are in power or in coalition. We want to work, help the citizens of Serbia, and that is why it is time for you to understand it and raise your hands from such a bad bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8745	MP Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8746	Article 100. I would like to ask you to really try to respect everyone as the MPs are supposed to do and to address each other in the same way as Article 100. The Rules of Procedure are foreclosure. We had the whole hall of law on the National Assembly, and now, in my opinion, Miss Jovanovic was completely unargumented, she said from the assembly booth, without any proof of how Karic bought the MPs in the National Assembly. I think that needs to be prevented. Even in the course of the talk, it was to be warned not to do such a thing, for it violates the reputation of the National Assembly. Ms. Jovanovic, it is true that the SRS is getting a lot of votes in Serbia. However, it seems difficult for me to win so many votes in the coming period, because the citizens realized that no matter how much they voted for you, you could never be power again. It's not like you're all over the local government. For example, you still don't have a congregation majority in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8747	I gave the replica because I didn't know what the occasion was like during the afternoon session. I can't tell on what it's spoken for. It's reliable that the MPs are sitting here. It is possible, as Miss Jovanovic said, and I ask you not to use this as a replica, that many people who are formerly known businessmen want to buy MPs. This is not possible and it will not be possible, because we will pass a law on the Assembly, which will be initial for all state authorities and it will be quite clear that everyone is doing their job and are adequately paid for it. There is no reason to continue the replicas of this occasion, nor to respond to party relations. Be kind, the responsibility of this congregation, I believe in all MPs, rests, and we make hasty efforts to pass laws, of course, by showing all disagreements with those attitudes of those laws that we do not like. I can give, according to the Rules of Procedure, a brief replica or address by the Rules of Procedure, but I warn, I will interrupt the session to maintain order in the Assembly if it continues with mutual accusations what any party intends to do after some elections in a city, and also if it is tried through advertising by some parties. Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8748	Mr. President, Dragan Shormaz had no reason to report for the replica. You gave him that opportunity and he hurt Article 97. Rules of Procedure. He did not have the opportunity to report to the Rules of Procedure and to state Article 100, which speaks of that no one is allowed to disrespect or in any way express offensive expressions to any MP. Next time, don't sit on your ears, Mr. Shormaz, but listen carefully. When I say there are indications or...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8749	Miss Jovanovic, I warn you in a manner of expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8750	Col. Shormaz didn't listen to me, and that's the problem, because his colleagues didn't understand where he came from and what he wanted, either. Therefore, since you have already come to my attention and you have not listened to me well, I will tell you that the SRS has won voter confidence, that even in such studies of public opinion, which are always at the expense of Serbian radicals, because it is usually much more than a percentage, we have more than 30% voter confidence in Serbia and we are the strongest political party. Not only are we able to take power, but in many municipalities and cities we exercise power either in a coalition or the presidents of the municipality, or the town of Novi Sad, which is Mrs Gojkovic, Serbian radicals. You'd have to deal with the fact that from election to election, it's increasingly collapsing when it's specifically your party. Therefore, when you go out for a pay phone, you speak with argument, talk about facts, and do not belittle voters, and there are many, who have shown trust in Serbian radicals. It's going to hurt you, and our benefit will be to know when, not if we win, and we'll get millions of votes, but when we show that we can do better, that we're ready for fundamental changes. Rest assured, in cities where we have already started to exercise power unhindered, even though our obstruction, as it was in the case in Arangelovac, has been made exactly by the guilty of your party, we will continue our work seriously and responsibly and make sure that citizens will reward us even more in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8751	Public opinion surveys are paid by contracting authorities and research is discussed, always taking care of those who order, and elections are being paid by citizens and citizens. The citizens decided that laws were passed here, by procedure and on my application, so that the Assembly would work effectively. The Serbian government responded. I am obliged to read to you: "The government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded, according to Article 139. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to withdraw from the assembly procedure the following draft laws: Proposal for a Law on Government, Proposal for a Law on Public Agencys, Proposal for a Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Postal Services, Proposal for a Law on Tourism, Proposal for a Law on Electronic Signature, Proposal for a Law on Reproductive Material of the Woods and a Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. I thank you for understanding, because the application was to withdraw laws that could affect us not to start dealing with what the Assembly should deal with in due time, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think all of us will show the same kind of responsibility and try to make the work as effective as we've done so far. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? National MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8752	Mr. President, based on Article 97. Rules of Procedure, I have the right to the replica. Those who were in the afternoon session in the O.R. were able to know that I was the only MP in the afternoon, when he spoke of his amendment, mentioning some other countries. The minister came out here and spoke personally about what I was talking about and completely misread me, so now I'm asking if, on the basis of Article 97, you're giving me the right to reply or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8753	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. I'm sorry, I'll give you back your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8754	Mr. President, it is common knowledge to those who were in the O.R. this morning, I am the first MP to mention in the afternoon, when he spoke of the law, some other countries in the context of this law. The minister came out here afterwards and completely misread what I was saying, so I'm asking if I, based on Article 97. Rules of Procedure, you're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8755	Sure, go ahead. Here's your time for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8756	Mr. Minister, when I talked about my amendment to this law, I mentioned some countries, but not in that way that I was saying how good it was that this law was applied in them or how bad it was not applied, I spoke in the context of how similar laws were created in certain countries. Now that you don't understand me, you've misread me, I'm going to try to explain to you what I've actually said. I am convinced, Mr. Minister, that at some point ahead of us, the Serbian Parliament will pass a law that will regulate, say, the use of the sea, marine goods and coasts. This will happen when Serbia, according to everything that belongs to it under international rights, gets its way out to the sea, which means that we will have to regulate that phenomenon legally. What did I say? I said you're doing the opposite. You think if you now adopt a law on sea and marine goods, that you will also produce a phenomenon that Serbia will get a way out of the sea. The same thing is done in this law, which you're trying to create worthy peacemakers and arbitration, which I don't think you can do with any additional courses. That was the meaning of my amendment and what I explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8757	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8758	Mr. Secretary has arrived. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly, members of 100 and 101, because a few moments before he read the government's statement to withdraw certain laws from the procedure, Mr. President of the National Assembly, who is first among the equal, accused the MPs of speaking nonsense, that we are dealing with irrelevant matters, that there are important and irrelevant laws, and I believe that all laws are important, because they all have some consequence, and it seems to me that Mr. President of the Assembly wants to tell us what is going to be entered into the stenogram, and what they won't. He thus violated the dignity of the National Assembly and for only known reasons, and whether this is the purpose and whether it is his personal campaign, this congregation is constantly suffering his jokes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8759	Mr. Arsic, if you'd realized that I was talking about important and irrelevant laws and that I was trying to get the Assembly in such a direction, I'm really sorry, it didn't occur to me, it wouldn't have occurred to me, and I was just saying that there are no MPs here who were bought by someone, but chosen. I don't understand, really. Here you go. You're not satisfied with the explanation? No, then the Assembly will have to make a statement about it. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8760	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS Group is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Articles 100 and 101 because we think that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, as the president said - that the assembly should finally begin to deal with what needs to be done, and that is the matter of the budget. This congregation has in its jurisdiction the adoption of positive regulations, the adoption of laws, and we think that a large number of very important laws have been put in motion for this session of the Assembly. The fact that there is no proper debate in this House, that the meetings have started with a delay of more than one hour, that we have repeatedly advertised violations of the Rules of Procedure and disrespect for the work of the National Assembly, has resulted in an inadequate extension of the work under certain laws and too long discussion of certain laws. I also didn't understand it very well, and I hope I missed hearing that the procedure has been withdrawn and the law that is now on the agenda, which is the law on peaceful settlement of work disputes, because everything we pointed to in the last three days is sufficiently talking about the fact that, if no other, and that is for sure, this law had to be withdrawn from the procedure, to comply with certain laws that it is contrary to and thus does not collapse the single legal system. Let me add one more thing, the agenda for this assembly is too large. At a meeting of the heads of parliament's groups, at a meeting of vice-presidents and committees each time, the DS Group indicated that the 20-point agenda, with such important system laws, offends dignity and the Assembly and MPs. No one who seriously wants to make remarks, who seriously wants to make amendments to the laws that are on the agenda, can do so within such a short period of time for so many serious laws and should change certain things in these laws, should go to the European integration resolution, and we all adopted it here together. Given that we have pointed out this, and now we find that we were right, we ask you to, when you set out the next calls, make sure that we can respect the time, tolerance and absolutely positive approach to the serious resolution of the issues of the law that are on the agenda and in such a way that each one of us, who has made a serious effort to prepare for the laws that we thought would be on the agenda of this session, do not put into a situation that in an inappropriate way we have wasted our time, that, intolerantly and unrespectably, the government refers to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that you allow us to put the amendments and other remarks on the proper deadlines, so that we may be confronted with fewer points of the agenda and with the possibilities of each of each of us, but quite certain and of the Government and you who are leading the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8761	Thank you, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojac. Wait a minute, I owe you an explanation. Once again, I apologize to everyone if someone has misunderstood my attempt to remind them that the congregation is dealing with laws and that it is necessary to deal with laws that are on the agenda. If I'm mispronounced or misunderstood, please accept my apology. Thank you for your tolerance. As for the second, I understand, Mrs. Lakicevic, that you are not informed, because it is the first time. As far as I know, just at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, there was an agenda, several times in this conference, which, judging by the information I have, was not a custom before. It has been agreed, among other things, on a large agenda, because serious MPs, please don't take this the wrong way now, I say, in all groups there are such, therefore, for those laws that are close to them and for which they are professional, I suppose, and that's what the heads of Parliament have been saying, immediately upon the entry of the law into the procedure and of course they are preparing amendments, because we all care that these laws look as good as possible. The laws on the agenda of this session have, as a rule, stood in the process for over two months. Please, I am informing you of what has been said at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, and since you lack that notice, and in order not to miss the public, it has been discussed and it has been said that perhaps one law that has arrived after an emergency procedure, which is systemic and important, but also for it must be passed for at least ten days, and the session was scheduled and began on Tuesday last week, it has been ten days to arrive in due time to give the amendment. So, the fact that we worked this week and last week very hard, but it turns out that there are a number of amendments on the whole series of laws, the willingness to withdraw them from the procedure, that means further and speedy consideration, is a kind of respect for the National Assembly, and I thank the government for that. Please, I hope that we will do so in the future, therefore, that a number of amendments will affect everything in order to improve the quality of the law, even in that part, so after withdrawing from the procedure. Thank you very much. Now, please, let's get back to the agenda and this law. No, it's okay, you want to go through the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf, according to the amendment. You want to do business? I must remind you that I am keeping my promise, because you have chosen me for this, and the promise has been, if the agenda is not enabled, but insists on the debate, the replicas and the Rules of Procedure, I will ask everyone to take five minutes off to consult among the parliamentary groups and to agree whether we will do it or not. Do you have an understanding? Thank you. Please, a five-minute break, so that the bosses and authorized representatives can agree whether or not we will continue to work on the amendments or we will spend our time discussing the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've finished our consultations, please enter the O.R. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units to see if we have a quorum. Thank you. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. They have already discussed the amendments Branislav Rankic, Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Marko Krstin. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry once again for the misunderstandings over the publication law, which I think few MP groups have been disputed, and has been removed from the agenda. It is obvious that there has been some misunderstanding on the line of the National Assembly - the government of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is part of the essential remarks of the SRS MPs on the proposed law. We believe that the whole procedure should have been simplified and, instead of the peacemakers, the arbitrationists, the special agencies, we already have them over our heads, the number they don't know, all of which should have been transferred to the legal aid service, and, of course, in a certain way, to amend that regulation which regulates the status and part-round work of the legal assistance service, but that would have been incomparably more important. On the other hand, Article 32 in point 2 states that the arbitration panel may exclude the public at the request of the parties to the dispute. I ask if it will also be with work-legal requirements in the case, and I assume you have heard, as the news is rapidly circulating with Belgrade, that Milo Djukanovic, Stanko Subotic-Cane and Bodo Hombah, in agreement, are trying to take over the company "News". I don't know what the government has done about it. I don't know if it's an ethically assessed state capital or not, but you should consider that it would be another very important house of interest to a country that would go into questionable hands. Some have already been destroyed, and whatever I thought of "Politics," and I never thought of writing it well, she had some parts that were always more interesting than in other newspapers, special sections. These people deserved some respect, and today they fell on a circulation of 30,000 to 50,000. Not to mention that the reputation of the newspaper has fallen dramatically, because it has literally become the daily newsletter of Boris Tadic and a political party in this country. I'm not saying this because I'm afraid the political option will be to support Stanko Subotic-Cannet, Milo Djukanovic and Bod Hombah's newspaper. We have learned that and so far no newspaper has directly supported us, not even indirectly, but I want to point out that this would be a major financial problem, with a number of malversions, and that some people have to take care of it. Of course, I used this amendment to make this remark that is essential and my concern about what might happen, and I don't want to be misunderstood, and to have someone say that I'm trying to prevent privatisation, or foreign capital, foreign investment. Yeah, we want foreign investments, but not mob capital. That is what I would like to point to to this government as well as to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is one of the most important issues for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the whole law, since I haven't talked about the law in principle, regardless of the intentions that the legislator had, which is to facilitate dispute resolution, to speed them up, to solve them in a different way than they've been resolved so far, I think the procedure is only complicated, complicated, at the same time, to take away the work of the workers' right to strike and to only bring more confusion, confusion, even a number of contradictions. (President: Time. In any case, I invite you to accept the amendment of MP Rankic when it comes to voting day. He would, of course, bear with him the consequence that the other members of this law would then, in that sense, have to change and that would be the voice of reason in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you see, Mr. President, once again what you can and can do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to correct the law on publishing publications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8764	Thank you. I'm sorry to have warned you after line time, it was an amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8765	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Lalovic's tenacity in the afternoon debate has shown that he has tried, thinking that the MPs are foolish, that he has convinced them so much for two hours, giving a political speech about it -- the success of the government of which he is a member. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he doesn't have to convince the MPs here. Mr. Minister, let him convince and convince the government of the million-and-a-half unemployed. Let Mr. Minister go to Cačak, Užice, Nova Varoš, Chatin, White Church, Vršac, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, go to Baja's Garden, ask citizens and workers who are unemployed and who have bitter pains and bad problems. I understand that Mr. Minister, as part of his portfolio, launched an initiative before the government of the Republic of Serbia to establish an agency for the placement of agricultural products, the proposal would be accepted by all. It would come to support the general public, and I believe that all MPs would...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8766	Please, Mr. Jojic, be kind, talk about the amendment, please, there's no reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8767	I'm just talking about what Mr. Minister was trying to convince us of all morning. Compared to Article 32, I would remind Mr. Minister that the current government, the former and current government, has advocated and advocated the public's work. These provisions in Article 32 are contrary to system laws. It is proposed and said that the debate is public. In the second position of this member, it is proposed that the parties may propose an arbitration panel to exclude the public. Please, the public doesn't need to be ruled out. Why? Mr. Vukic has just mentioned that. He touched important things, and let me remind you, specifically, when it comes to this proposal - why exclude the public, and you know why - probably someone has a personal interest and to exclude the public, but the general legal interest is at stake and the public here should not be excluded. Why? You have interested persons in the process, and it would not be possible for someone to conclude an agreement and a third party to draw certain rights under that agreement, i.e. to have the right to certain interests and to certain parts of the property and to certain rights, that is why. This would exclude the legal representative, the parties to the procedure, the power of attorney and the interference, which provides for the Law on Prosecution, which was to be an alpha and omega for a bill like this. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the public must be present and do not hide anything from the public or from the citizens. Therefore, I believe that if this bill were to be adopted, it would be contrary to the provisions of the article. 308, 309 and 310. Law on litigation. I suggest you accept this amendment. If the minister understands this many warnings from the 82-nation Serb Radical Party MPs, as the strongest political parties in Serbia, we point to that for good purposes. It showed up, where we were, nowhere. What we did was nothing. Even 21 points, 21 laws. MPs, you have made a great effort to prepare yourself for the many laws the government has proposed. This is a game with the Assembly. What's the Assembly doing? The citizens will say, these MPs "beat empty straw there".
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8768	They're working on the amendment. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8769	I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. President. The withdrawal of this number of laws is one recklessness and that is one irresponsibleness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8770	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The first one was Mr Milan Markovic and then Bosko Ristic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8771	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try to be concise, given the request made by the president of the National Assembly from an earlier meeting of the heads of Parliament. I must say, I was hoping that this list of nine draft laws that the government is withdrawing would find and this bill that we're talking about today, Mr. Minister. It is obvious that this number of objections and proven contradictions and disagreements with other laws that exist in our legal order require this bill to be withdrawn from the procedure. Of course, you will not agree to this, first of all, to political reasons. I must say, before I say anything about the amendment, I cannot share my gratitude to the President of the Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I don't feel at all grateful. I feel deceived, because I was seriously preparing for nine points of the agenda, not realizing that it was all a farce, so that we would be virtually impossible to prepare for the point of the agenda that goes beyond, and that's the business line. So there's nothing to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for. This must have been intentional. If it was accidental, it speaks even worse about the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is unable to assess the course of work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it proposes such a large agenda. What Article 32 tells us. A bill of law? Article 32. The bill says that from a legal point of view this bill is very badly written, not to be rude, but to be honest, this law is illiterate. So, like the members where the proceedings are mentioned, it is mentioned that what is the same government, which is proposing this law, has proposed that it does not exist. So, as this is suggested, now in this law something that is practically a kind of non-sensual, one exception that does not exist in our legal system, which is that the arbiter can rule out the public at the request of the party in the dispute, if there are justifiable reasons. My first question is, what are the reasons? When disfellowshipping the public, the reasons should be taxed. That's how it is in the Law of Criminal Procedure, that's how it is in the Law of Criminal Procedure, that's how it is in the Law of Administrative Procedure, etc. That's the first remark. The second observation, whether it is at the request of one party in the dispute, is both parties in the dispute, therefore, that in the end, this arbitration officer will decide to exclude the public. So another example, another member of the law, and after two days of debate, it seems that almost all the members of the law are missing in one way or another. Another example that speaks for the fact that this law still needs to be added to this group of nine, let me say, false proposals, because obviously these were not sincere intentions for us to discuss these laws. That was more of a distraction from this house. So, to join these bill proposals. I say again, the minister should withdraw this law. I have one more question left. I asked Mr. Minister if he could tell me in a new law on litigation, which this government has proposed, and you yourself, to show me where it says "calming," because perhaps I've received a bill in which there's a slip. So, where the "Peace of Procedure" Institute is mentioned, which existed and exists in the current Law on Prosecution. Where's the new law on litigation? I asked you to explain that to me and the Assembly. If we are mistaken, we will apologize to you. If that doesn't exist, it would be fair for you to bring it out here at the pay phone. If there's a whole other institute, and there's no "resistance," we agree. So I ask the minister to come out here and explain to us nicely, so that we will not be in ignorance and that we do not live in error, that, behold, this government is not in a position within one month to release two consistent bill proposals before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8772	Thank you. There's a word from MP Bosko Ristic. Otherwise, Mr. Markovic, I thanked the government for listening to the letter from the Assembly and I think it's a natural order. Once again, please consult your heads of Parliament, who have agreed on something. Here you go, Mr. Ristic. I'm sorry about the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8773	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe that disfellowshipping the public from such a procedure is completely contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, which guarantees the public in the procedure before all state authorities. Only in the laws of taxed terms and conditions, and the reasons, and cases, can the public be excluded, and that cannot be decided by the arbitration officer, because this would put the process of peacefully resolving work disputes at risk. The Law on litigation provides for a breach of the mandatory public in the proceedings, as one of the essential infringements of the procedure on which a complaint, revision or application for protection of legality can be made. To such a violation of the procedure, the law obliges the court to keep an eye on him under official duty. This means that when a senior court decides by appeal, if a public obligation to act is violated in the previous procedure, it must, under official duty, abolish the decision. Here the law forces the parties to violate the Constitution and to create an opportunity for the abuse of procedural rights based on a vague provision. Why do I say there's a misunderstanding here? When you read what it says, that an arbiter can rule out the public at the request of the party in the dispute, it is not clear whether there must be agreement between the parties in the dispute or any of the parties in the dispute can act out the exclusion of the public? Since that is not clear, it opens up the opportunity for a volunteer approach in the arbitration panel, that regardless of the justification of the reason, it excludes the public from acting. In addition, this law abounds with legal standards, i.e. unclear provisions that are filled in by analogy or in some other way that this law does not prescribe. This law does not prescribe what procedures will be applied to the peaceful resolution of work disputes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8774	Mr. Ristic, please talk about the amendment. He's not talking about what you're talking about, please. Please, I'll have to read the amendment in public if you don't hold on to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8775	Your Honor, I'm talking about article 32 on which the amendment has been declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8776	I'm sorry, then I must really inform the MPs and the public that the proposal reads: "Article 32 of the word "arbitar" is replaced by the words "legal aid services". "So the amendment does not speak at all about the essence of what the member contains, nor does it speak about what it says in other members of the law, but rather advocates, and here Mr. Rankic made it clear that the word "arbitar" is replaced by the words "legal aid service". I'm asking you to talk about it, too, because it's an amendment. Be nice, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8777	In each procedure, there is the right of one who advocates and pleads for a particular solution, to choose an argument for his position. I chose the argument that this member is against the constitution and that he has no place in Serbia's legal system. So, I appeal and plead that the minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8778	Excuse me, Mr. Ristic, if you have decided to suggest that this member does not exist, please submit next time an amendment asking that member be deleted. It is not correct to impute another type of reasoning to the amendment submitted by Branislav Rankic and who has clearly explained it, and is not asking at all to delete this member, but rather to replace the word "arbitar" in article 32 with the words "legal aid services". Please give your arguments in favor of that position or stick to the Rules of Procedure in some other way by seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure when you have not submitted the amendment in due time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8779	Your Honor, the constitutionality of every provision is required by every state authority to keep an eye on its official duties, including you as president of the Assembly. I point to your unconstitutional nature, and you will determine on the day of the vote whether or not you will vote for an unconstitutional provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8780	Does anyone else have this amendment to Article 32? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8781	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ahead of the SRS parliamentary group, on the basis of article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. Proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. Article 33(1) reads: "Arbitar is in charge of the debate, taking statements from the parties in the dispute and other persons and in the proceedings, carrying out evidence and making sure that all the facts relevant for the decision are brought forward in the course of the debate". Article 2 "The parties to the dispute have the right to plead before the arbitration panel on the subject of the dispute and to respond to the allegations of the other party in the dispute." In Article 33, point 1 of the word "arbitar" is replaced by the words "legal aid service", and the second word "arbitar" is replaced by the words "legal aid service". The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes, to improve the law and bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and most importantly, this would be cheaper for citizens. That is why I urge you to accept the proposed amendment to Article 33 in the voting day. Proposal for a law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. In the end, I am a craftsman, in the former Yugoslavia, in the competition of metal workers, a quadruple champion in autogenic welding, and the only thing I know for sure is that this law was proposed by those who had never done anything or had any interest. The message from the workers of Rasin County to the Minister and the Government not to lecture us anymore on the laws concerning our workers, because if we want to listen to lectures, we will enroll in colleges and listen to smart people, not them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8782	Following the same amendment, Verica Radeta and Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8783	Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't mind that the Serbian Parliament also sent a letter to the Serbian government to remove certain points from the agenda for the reasons we heard in the president's explanation. I appreciate that, but I'm a little surprised by the way the President of the Assembly informed us about it, and I didn't want to, and I'm not going to ask any questions about the breach of the Rules of Procedure right now, but I'm really wondering if you say, Mr. President, that it's our job to pass the laws by speedy procedure, what does that mean? I know about the passing of laws by emergency and regular procedure, but there is no accelerated procedure in our Rules of Procedure. Also, your argument that by withdrawing certain proposals, as you say by the government, we will finally be in a position to get serious and do serious jobs, which is the budget. Budget is a serious job, budgeting is a really serious job, but I don't see why any of the laws the government has proposed for the agenda of this session are less serious. When it comes to the specific article 33 and the amendment tabled by Mr. Momcilo Duvnjak on behalf of the SRS, or our parliamentary group, I join the argument we heard about this amendment, but I want to say something, Mr. President, since you were not here in the morning when I explained one of the amendments. I stated that the position of the SRS is that no new organisations and paraorgans should be introduced into our legal system, and that is why we thought it unnecessary that there should be a peaceful settlement of work disputes, in particular that some peacemakers, arbiters, agencies are involved, and so on. We therefore suggested that it be done by the legal aid service. I mean, don't abuse yourself. We know that if this position were to be accepted, that the Law on Local Self-Government would have to be amended in one part and a different regulation on the organisation of the service of legal aid. This is to keep you from interrupting me, as you just did a colleague who tried to explain the amendment to this previous law in his own way. You, Mr. Minister, in your address here today, said that you find it odd that a group of MPs, clearly you were referring to an SRS parliamentary group, advocates that we do not need such a law at all, and on the other hand we are criticising the provisions of this law. You're right about each other. We really think that this law in our legal system doesn't need, we really think that in this area we need to pass a good law on work, and that this way we solve all the problems in this area, but since you're not proposing a law on work, you're proposing these quasi-conceives, then we're trying to at least this way to make them as polite as possible to look like something. In Article 33, you provided in paragraph 2 that parties to the dispute have the right to declare before the arbitration the case of the dispute and to respond to the other parties' allegations in the dispute. I ask you what if he won't, what if he doesn't come forward? There are no consequences of the arbiter. It's not just this provision. Most of the provisions of the bill are very strange and very vague. We're used to it, and at least we lawyers know that the legal code has to be short, clear, concise, that it can't leave any possibilities, some kind of gap in the law, famous in our legal system. Such indefinite provisions, if this law remains and you pass this law, will make this law in practice inadmissible. Believe me, Minister, a lot of the law since 2000 has been passed in this assembly that were inapplicable and every time we from the SRS have pointed out that, and every time the majority of the assembly has gone deaf to it, and every time we get two, three, five months on the agenda changes and additions to the same laws, and that those provisions that we have made through our amendments are introduced into the laws. Don't let that happen to you again, don't let that happen to you. I strongly recommend that you withdraw this law, so that we do serious things. This law is unserious.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8784	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. Since I can't leave the pay phone, just three explanations, so they don't get confused. So don't make a government agenda. I'm sorry again if someone got it wrong. I don't consider the laws more or less serious, but I think it's very important and serious that those laws are passed, and you know that the budget should be adopted by 15 December. I object to the fact that such laws are put on the agenda on December 14th, which is why I asked that enough time be given for the debate, to consider the budget as soon as possible and in peace. Only in that sense, the order of the law, and of course all the amendments that have been given to these laws, for which MPs have been preparing for the previous two months, as far as they were in the procedure, will be used to work. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8785	Unlike respected colleagues who believe that such a law should not exist in our legal order, we of the Democratic Party believe that this is a very important law and that it should exist. So we did our best to make the first effort in informal contacts, and then through the discussion, we influence as much as possible the law to be well and quality done. That's why we finally came to this conclusion that this law might still have to be withdrawn, but we've done it so many times already, so I'm afraid it's no effect, nor is it worth repeating anymore. I'll tell you about the article. 33rd thing. The arbitration panel shall decide to postpone the hearing by official duty or at the request of the party to the dispute. In the case of St. 3., he shall have to hold a hearing no later than five days after the hearing has been postponed. Then what? It's logical that he can do it several times, and only the question of delaying the debate should have been further elaborated. In fact, if this task force that was working on this bill had a little more hearing and perhaps more information, and what we talked about in time on the Justice Committee, it would realize that this, as well as the next question in Article 34, were actually issues that were quite capable of disabling the litigation process. There is no dilemma that, for example, in such solutions it is quite possible to disabling this process, which, of course, you don't want, neither do we, since when it comes to such a law we certainly have the same intentions. If Mr. President please, just one objection. It's about my colleague Bosko Ristic. Namely, Bosko Ristić, like I, who spoke before him, talked about the same subject, in the same way we addressed the National Assembly regarding Article 32 – the exclusion of the public, but Bosko Ristić was interrupted, warned and practically had to interrupt his discussion. I would ask Mr President to treat all the MPs in the same way, so if the first one who spoke does not speak about the item of the agenda, or the amendment, then it should be immediately suggested, and not let the second and third one state their position on the issue that is very important. Fortunately, I think it was quite clear that this was a matter of practically constitutional character, and there is always room for such a question to speak of, no matter what the actual content of an amendment is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8786	Thank you for this intervention. Mr Ristic, I am sorry that your presentation was an example when I reminded myself of something that appears in the presentations of all MPs and is indeed a wonderful collegiation that four amendments, submitted by the Democratic Party, serve to correct this law, thanks to the collegiation to assist all other amendments submitted by other parties. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the MP from the SRS of Mr Duvnjak is part of all the amendments submitted by the SRS. We're trying to get this law back on track, so it can be applied. Unfortunately, there seems to be no good will to do so, so this law will remain a dead letter on paper. In addition to the courts, in addition to the special courts, in addition to the judges for violations, in addition to the trade court, this law introduces a court of law. Unfortunately, there are no sanctions here. Nothing can happen here unless any party in this dispute honors what is agreed upon. No wonder. When you look in one of the following members at what is required for this arbitration or peacemaker, however, it should have high professional equipment, it should be five years old and it should be worthy of the duties of the peacemaker, or the arbitration officer. High professional equipment, with all the respect of profession, has an engineer of horticulture. There's a vet, a doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8788	Mr. Markovic, you're talking about what the amendment is talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8789	I'm trying to explain to the Minister why this amendment and all these amendments should be adopted ahead. Everyone I've listed is extremely and probably professionally doing their jobs. We're trying to get you back to the legal aid service, to lawyers, to people who already exist, who work in municipalities, who have high-end training, completed law school, mostly with a passed judicial exam, and who are already doing similar jobs and who, most importantly, won't cost the state anything. Speaking of enthusiastic citizens, here since this session began three times, none of us could enter the garage in Masariko, because enthusiastic citizens came, satisfied with the privatisation of the previous and also during this period. The rest on the street, jammed the streets, shouting, applauding, mentioning the minister of this and that, the minister of privatisation. They made a list, though, so they mention everything on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8790	Please, let's stick to the amendment. Replica, MP Bosko Ristic. To my presentation? Mr. Ristic, please, I apologized to the Assembly for not saying I would lay the groundwork. I admire you for dying for radical amendments. I just wanted to apologize for being on your case, because you're a frequent speaker, and I warned all the MPs to stick to... Mr Ristic, before you speak, I apologized for warning all MPs on your case not to talk about the amendment, but to use the amendment to talk about some other matter. Nothing more, and the rest was Mr. Markovic's answer. If you think you're hurt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8791	I'm just replicating the contents of your apology. Since it has been so fine and undetected a lot of sarcasm, I will have to answer those remarks that I am very persistent in defending the SRS amendment, and that my party has only four amendments. By the way, I want to do a parallel with a statement by the minister from the morning presentation, which also made an observation that it was a contradiction, because we're attacking the law, and we haven't written any amendments. It was just my appeal for the minister to withdraw this law because it was bad and extremely inadmissible. That's why I thought it wasn't all right to write amendments to fix something that couldn't be fixed. Since this law is fundamentally against the constitution, that the justice system penetrates and tramples the dignity of the judiciary, because the judges of the laymen are equating themselves with judges by invitation, professionals, it is expressed indemnity and mistrust to trust judges who will settle disputes between workers and employers in the ordinary procedure. That's why I couldn't stand the amendments. I'll take every opportunity to point out inconsistencies, bad solutions, impossible solutions and a breach of the legal system. It's my right as an MP and no one can deny it to me. We were elected by the citizens to express their opinions and represent their views, not the views of individual political parties, and especially the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8792	On what basis did you seek a replica, if you repeat what I have claimed? I claimed that you wanted to participate in the discussion, not the amendments, to fix the law, because Mr Markovic misinformed that you wanted amendments, of course, and amendments. That's what he was talking about. I just made a note, not wanting to insult anyone, there's no reason. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8793	I really don't know what's going on with you today, Mr. President. At the beginning of this session, you insulted the MPs. I just said I wasn't going to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so then you didn't get along, and I don't know why you took that five-minute break, and completely without a foundation, you tried to stop the MPs from speaking in the Rules of Procedure or replicating each other, too, according to the Rules of Procedure. And I didn't advertise it as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you've really gone too far. Now I have to do it. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted 40 amendments, I'm not sure exactly how many, to this law. We defend and explain our amendments, we are trying to convince the proposing representative, Mr. Lalovic, and the assembly majority to accept our amendments, we are talking about why we think that's important. I don't know why you just had such a cynical and so entrenched tone when you said that your DS colleagues were killed on the defense of our amendments. This isn't where you die, Mr. President, this is where MPs do their job. It is you who protects the DS, Mr Markovic, because you are not putting on the agenda an SRS recalling initiative by Boris Tadic and determining whether he has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, you are the one who works under the grain with Mr Boris Tadic and his MPs. Do not connect the SRS and DS parliamentary groups. We're completely different and we've never been together. You're from the DS wing, and apparently you're coming back to them again. That's your thing, and if you hadn't challenged me, I wouldn't have told you that. So instead of cynicism, instead of this way that you're very foolishly and clumsyly running this congregation today, you've injured Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you once again, remember that in the drawer you have an SRS recall initiative for Boris Tadic's recall and put it on the agenda, it's as important as the budget, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8794	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Stojačić. Please don't make me break the Rules of Procedure, reporting to the Rules of Procedure. I put it in my Rules of Procedure, and the MPs said whether this initiative would come on the agenda. The Rules of Procedure provide only that way for MPs to declare themselves and have declared that one initiative does not come to the agenda. It's not under the grain, it was public. It is my duty to respect the decision. I took a break, according to the Rules of Procedure, so that the heads of Parliament could agree. They agreed, and it was not an agreement that people would not report to the Rules of Procedure, but to stop the current order of reporting in order to establish a more working atmosphere. I'm sorry if I hurt someone, but the bosses met here and you were in on it. So, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure, and please confirm what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This session would, in any case, take much shorter, both in this and in some previous laws, so often you do not take the right to explain our every stand behind this speaker. What I've come forward for is to make a difference between the amendments and the DS position under this law and the amendments and the SRS's position under this law. The DS thinks such a law should be in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and thinks it is necessary to pass laws to settle work disputes peacefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8796	Mrs Stojacic, I'm sorry, but by what section of the Rules of Procedure do you explain the difference in political views under some law? You're really making me uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8797	According to Article 100(1), because you have violated the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly, equating different performances and interpreting what any of us wants to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8798	Please, I didn't do that. Be nice. I've just notified who has submitted the amendments. If someone misunderstood the poetic expression that someone died for the ideals, it's the right thing to do, and I hope it didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure so much that you would now explain the different approach of parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8799	Each of us has the right to interpret who he is and how he hurt the Rules of Procedure. Yes, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure very much by saying that Mr. Bosko Ristic here is fighting for the amendments, as well as the ideals of the SRS. I really think it's an insult to the Rules of Procedure and an insult to the MPs. Therefore, the DS amendments make it very clear that our desire to bring this law into line with the existing and future legal acts that this assembly has on the agenda and wants to pass. We are in principle and craftsmanship, professionally, as serious people who practice law, and most of us are professors of universities or lawyers, concerned about maintaining a single legal system in the Republic of Serbia. The three amendments concern the harmonisation of this law with the law on public agencies, one amendment, to Article 55, concerns compliance with the Labour Act, the request for the removal of Article 153 of the current Labour Act. Our main objections refer to Article 30 and 37 of this Act, which are directed towards the Institute of Peace, which no longer exists in your proposal, i.e. in the Government's proposal for a law on litigation. These are the essential, legal and professional objections that we have made to this law, and for anyone who can read them, they are different and significantly different from the amendments made by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8800	Mr. Markovic, replica. Let's not make a difference between MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8801	The right to tell you, I don't know what basis I've come to, because I wanted to say something about the amendment, so after that, I've been mentioned, for no reason, which is the basis for replication. Your apology to Bosk Ristic was really in place and that's fine, but I can't understand this later sarcasm and disputing our right to discuss amendments. You have to understand us. We want to say our position on the amendments, whoever submitted them, could be the Government, could be the ruling majority, could be some other parliamentary group, another party, any MP. It's just, it's our right. I would be so happy if the other MPs were dealing with the congregation the way we deal with the congregation. I think Bosko Ristic explained our whole attitude towards this law. We just thought it was impossible to submit this number of amendments. We are still in the position that this law should exist, but we were hoping that Mr. Minister would withdraw it, which, unfortunately, is not there again. If I don't, I'll tell you one more problem with this law. Article 34 defines that the arbiter is capable of hiring an expert and that the provisions of this law on the exemption of the arbiter are applied accordingly to the experts. Tell me, do you or anyone in this room think that this is how you're designed to hire an expert? To be honest, I'd like someone to explain to me whether the possibility of hiring an expert has been elaborated. Do you know what corpus of provisions should exist for me to know how to hire an expert, from which list of experts, which are sanctions for his contempt of the court, in which deadlines he has to end, what if he doesn't end up etc.? I'm going back to that same story that's so important that there's a correlation between certain legal proposals. Let's just say, this was one of the questions that we discussed on the Justice Committee, where we also gave some amendments. Now I'm going to tell you something else about the amendment since this ruling majority is and since this government is in Serbia. The fate of any amendment submitted by the DS, and of course other parliamentary groups, is that it is rejected, and it is rejected without being read at all. That was proved by Minister Stojkovic, when we last spoke to the Justice Committee, after which DS even boycotted the committee. Do you really think we're gonna sit at home and make amendments, sometimes spending all night? In particular, I know the case when there was a law on litigation, in the SRS parliamentary group and in the DS parliamentary group it was up to 24.00 hours or up to 0.3 amendments. Do you think that we should sit down and do the amendments that Minister Stojkovic will refuse with the list, and that it is not clear to the members of the ruling party why amendments that practically do not touch essentially apply, but only to technical issues. Please, then you should have a little bit of understanding for us and for our work and a little more respect for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8802	Thank you. I have an understanding and I commended it, please, thank you. National MP Petar Jojic, otherwise we are talking about Article 33.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the draft law in the first part, the second position says what are the objectives and reasons for the adoption and proposal of this law. Let's see what the goals are, whether they can be achieved and how they can be achieved. It's related to Article 33, related to the arbitration panel. Due to the large number of disputes and the complexity of the procedure based on civil procedural law, the court procedure, as a rule, takes several years. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think I'm speaking to the promoter, although the promoter is not here, the minister is absent, he should have told us at least one truth and supported it with one fact, which is to show us which European country is chosen by an arbitration or peacemaker in this way. Is that in Germany? No, I don't. Is he in England, by any chance? No, I don't. Is it possible for a peacemaker and arbiter to be chosen in this way? Do you take care of the expertise of the arbiter and the peacekeeper? So, take care of yourself. He can't work there unless he's got ten years of work experience and he's got a legal exam. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia today has the great intellectual power of Serbian civilians and professional holders of judicial functions, which must be presented and defended by any attempt to amend or supplement any law or passing meaningless and ineffective laws. A consultation was held in Bavaria, attended by representatives from Serbia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. These representatives have heard how the judge is elected, how the dispute is being conducted, whether it is working, whether it is civil, and if it is civil law, whether it is criminal law. What's the point and what does the proposer want, at least as much as he's trying to convince us, by passing a law like this? Efficiency as a goal - the call for reform of the legal system is inspired by key provisions: 1. efficiency, which does not imply the same ideas, the 2nd efficiency of the procedure, which involves two components, one of which is a reasonable period of time in which the procedure will end, the second is that, in essence and not only seemingly, resolve the disputed legal relationship (that the party in the dispute gets a fair judgment decision). Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this can only be achieved if, in addition to comparative legal solutions and international standards that impose a faster procedure, we respect our characteristics: legal, historical, cultural, sociological, economic and others. And especially to adhere to the following principles and aspects: the legal-political aspect, the comparative-legal, formal-law, the legal and historical, the socio-economic and legal-philosophy aspect. The importance of the recommendations of the Council of Europe - this implies respect for the following procedural principles which we do not have the right to deviate from: the principle of party disposition, the principle of officiality, the principle of orality and literacy, the historical and principle of material truth, the principle of directness, the principle of free assessment of evidence, new facts as evidence, objectivity and impartiality, the principle of convention and monocratism, and in particular the process of proof, the assessment of evidence and the reasoning of decisions to be made and in such disputes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Refuting the recommendations on peaceful dispute resolution, please, if one settlement is concluded, it's one contract. If this agreement is concluded as well, it is one contract again, and it can be a legal business. Please, if the agreement is in error, if it is concluded under duress or fraud, in an explanation, but in the provisions of the bill there is no such thing. Serbian radicals will insist on reading and preparing for each member, anyone proposing a law, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will have to study all the laws in detail, we will insist that we assure you that this will not be accepted in the professional public.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8804	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Djordjevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8805	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the SRS, or the SRS parliamentary club, have tabled a series of amendments to the draft law on peaceful settlement of labour disputes. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33(3). The bill to replace the word "arbitar" with the words "legal aid service", and the word "arbitar" is also replaced by the words "legal aid service". My fellow MPs from the SRS have been reasoned, coming up during this session around this item of the bill's agenda, which the government has tabled to the National Assembly, on the peaceful resolution of labour disputes, to explain why we are conceptually different and we propose that this bill be amended in this part. You have rejected our amendments, and based on what Mr. Minister has put out here, I believe that we, as MPs, have the right to address the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia when we consider that some legal projects are being proposed here, which, above all, do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are not in line with the Labour Act, when they are not in line with this bill, because there is no criminal provision here, and we believe that for a legal project that you have proposed is a very short period of time. So that's January 1st, 2005. These are all the arguments that the SRS came up with and her MPs were going out for this pay phone over the last few hours and they were talking to you personally, Mr. Minister. I especially want to say that we have not made any obstruction here, but we are doing exactly what the citizens of Serbia asked us to do, because that is what Serbian workers and you as ministers are asking us to do, when you speak to this speaker, you have shown us no argument and you have not given us any arguments from the legal point of view when you spoke in defense of this bill. The first and basic thing that this law does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on Article 33, I have therefore submitted an amendment, that it does not have to and should not be introduced by the agency as a new institution. We believe that the legal aid service is sufficient for the institutions of local self-government units. Indeed, what is particularly crucial is that you, as Minister of this government, have a majority here in the Assembly, but relatively many, and you have shown us no argument here and you have failed to defend this legislative proposal that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8806	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8807	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, so I don't mind defending other people's amendments, I will now propose that this amendment be rejected. But not because he's not good, but because there's nothing to fix it with. We're back to square one again. This law stipulates that the arbiter will carry out evidence. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It means total volunteering, total arbitraryness. And if you bring this provision of the bill in connection with the provision of Article 15 – where the minister is authorised to prescribe the conduct of the arbitration panel in this procedure itself, and it is not known when he will prescribe, whether before or after the adoption of this law, and where you do not know what he will prescribe, whether the procedure will be in accordance with or contrary to the Law on a litigation procedure, whose application is likely to be similar to that of a peaceful settlement of labour disputes – then it opens up one legal uncertainty and legal uncertainty. That is why this law is contrary to the Constitution and its declared principles that every citizen has the right to be informed in advance of the laws that will apply to certain cases. There is therefore an institution of vacatio legis, which is why there is an institution to publish the rules, so that citizens can be aware of the procedures to be applied to them in good time. All of this is missing, and that's why this law should be withdrawn from legal traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8808	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs proposes not to accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the 34th Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. Article 34 provides for an arbitration officer to hire an expert. The articles shall be accompanied by the provisions of this law on the exemption of the arbitration panel. From the bench - louder. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8810	You go ahead, if it's quieter in the O.R., they'll hear you. Anyone who wants to hear you will hear you, but you continue as you have decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8811	The amendment to this article requires that, in accordance with the already stated position of the SRS parliamentary group, the word "arbitar" in paragraph 1 be replaced by the words "legal aid service", because I believe that the proceedings of the arbitration panel in the peaceful settlement process can be successfully carried out by legal aid services, which already exist in each municipality, and which have so far provided assistance to the parties in the exercise of their rights. It is only necessary to strengthen these services in human terms, in order to carry out these tasks. Given that these proceedings will be increasingly due to the difficult economic situation many have found themselves in because of the loss of work, and surely these disputes will be growing in the future, and given the economic policy run by this government. The adoption of this amendment, as well as others, which my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group have already explained, would avoid the establishment of a republican agency as a special body of state administration, whose work and existence would lead to an increase in the state apparatus and unnecessary spending of budgets, which is inappropriate to the current economic situation. I also believe that the adoption of this amendment will contribute to the efficiency and economy in the process of peaceful settlement of labour disputes before the departments of legal assistance in municipalities, because in most cases they are parties involved in these proceedings with the same territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8812	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8813	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a similar explanation for this amendment, I will give a different explanation, so that I do not repeat myself in relation to the earlier ones, of course with the same goal and essentially the same content. So it's our request to consider first and foremost the legal institute of arbiter. That is the essence of all the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. What kind of authority does an arbiter have? That's what you're talking about in the next 35 members, but you see here that he has powers as a judge, as someone who has passed a judicial exam, as someone who has enough legal knowledge, skills, practices, and not as a person who, by your law, Mr. Minister, is just one who has a high level of expertise. It's the only condition. So it could be a mining engineer, it could be a dentist, it could be anything. What does he know about an expert? So these are honorable occupations, they're honorable people, but how do they know which skills to engage on what principle, based on what law? I don't think it's clear to anyone and that it can't survive, or that it can't get into legal traffic this law, to correct what was just said from this pay phone. So it's inapplicable in practice. Not just because of the difference between the Law on a litigation procedure, which we will adopt in the National Assembly, about the institute of rest and impasse, which we have already talked about. This is also inadmissible. So, we've foreseen legal aid. What does that mean? It's more of a face. All faces are graduate lawyers at the very least, with a passed judicial exam. These people know what expertise is, they know what skill is, they know how to call and determine. They know how to end up making a solution to the matter of the dispute. How is this arbiter, who is a dentist, going to make a solution to the subject matter? That's what I'd like to hear. But it's impossible to give a meaningful answer. Of course, I know that some here are bored, but I'm sure the citizens of Serbia are not, because it concerns them, their rights and obligations, what they will be exposed to in the coming period. [[Sagar.]] And those who don't want to listen - what to do to them. I'll keep going. So we in Serbia have a hard fight to hire people. But it is obvious that the trend of unemployment is beginning, or the number of unemployed people at this point is increasing. It is clear that there is a need to overcome possible tensions, social unrest, conflicts, and everything else. We also had the promises of Mr Tadic, who is in the election campaign, not only the government, and the government, but also Mr Tadic, they spoke unequivocally -- we'll have new jobs, we'll have bigger salaries, we'll have bigger pensions. In the end, there's nothing more than pay, no more pensions, and no one's talking about new jobs. Everything they told the people and citizens of Serbia at one point was not true, they were not telling the truth. They were making it up. Now they're hiding behind each other's conflicts, teasers and nothing else. We think that the legal aid service would be an incomparably better solution than an arbiter, rather than a peacemaker, and that in an incomparably better way, we would regulate this area, that they are more competent, because these people know what the solution is, they know how, by which procedure, the solution is being taken. In the way you predicted this law, it's absolutely impossible to accept. Since Mr Markovic, I listened to him at the MP's club, I said that MPs of the Democratic Party strongly support the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, to say that they had the opportunity to Mr Markovic, but all others, in accordance with the law, in accordance with good customs and behaviour, if you will, and a bona fide in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, allow debate on Mr Tadic's impeachment. First of all, the people of Mr Tadic's party told us earlier that they were looking forward to this debate, because they are very pleased to have this debate. They've done a lot of things, I guess he's been to a lot of games. I don't know what else he's done, but they've been looking forward to it, explaining how things are going, how miracles are done, and how much they're doing, and you haven't done it in the end. That is why Mr Markovic had to address Serbian Radical Party MPs and the National Assembly in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8814	Mr. Wolfie, you've been over the clock for a minute, so I'd like to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8815	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. I'm done. I invite you, in particular, Mr. Minister, to think about it, because someone who doesn't know what the solution looks like to bring, invite and bring in an expert, to decide on all issues, because it's simply not competent, there's not enough knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8816	Mr. Wolf, a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8817	Okay, Mr. Angelkovic, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8818	I thank you for your understanding, Mr. Wolfie. He has the word National MP Milan Stevovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully support representatives of the Serbian Radical Party who spoke of the amendment to Article 34. We just have to unite in one thought, which is that we are submitting these amendments, but with one principled attitude, that we want the government to withdraw the bill. If he insists on not withdrawing it, we want to sort of amend the bill. For these very reasons, it should have been up to the end of his colleague Boško Ristic to speak, as well as others who spoke about the senselessness of certain solutions, as counterpart Vukic said earlier. I'm just gonna ask a professional question. What's an expert supposed to do in this kind of procedure? We need to get back to Article 31. What does this arbiter decide? He decides to cancel the contract. What could be the subject of termination? So there can be facts and the application of these facts, the subjugation of these facts under the legal norm, therefore, the application of material law and one part of the process. There's absolutely nothing to do about it. When it comes to the second part and paying off the minimum profit, we don't need an arbiter, we need an expert. It's the economic part that needs to be processed, how many workers and what period does it take? So this is where there's been a permutation of certain attitudes and certain facts. In that sense, I suggest that instead of arbiter, this be entrusted to one collective body, lawyers who have passed a judicial exam, because all of this will be a little better and more responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8820	I thank Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The word has Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, Minister Lalovic answered for the word, then according to the Rules of Procedure. I haven't seen you. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8821	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Chairman, it is indeed an interesting obsession with the position and opposition of the Democratic Party and Mr. Boris Tadic. The Democratic Party said it would support the motion to recall Mr Tadic if he lacks as many votes as the Democratic Party has in this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8822	Replic or the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8823	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, the dignity of the National Assembly, because the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party is mentioned in an inappropriate manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8824	I didn't realize it was mentioned in an inappropriate way. This is where the president of the assembly was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8825	Since only Serbian Radical Party MPs voted for the recall of Mr Tadic, it would not be enough with the Democratic Party's votes. The ruling party MPs have not decided to support the Serbian Radical Party's proposal for a simple reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8826	Excuse me, can I see what the Rules of Procedure has been hurt in?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8827	He's fully aware of the fact that the consequences for them would be unacceptable. Mr Tadic's impeachment would not have passed, but the assembly would have been disbanded, hence the government, and new elections would have been called. That is why the Democratic Party did not support the motion to recall Mr Tadic. If it is again on the agenda and if any of the parties, which make up the government of the Republic of Serbia, backs the proposal and lacks votes from the Democratic Party's MPs, we will keep the promise made by President Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8828	Minister Lalovic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8829	I'm looking for a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8830	Can we agree that you have a replica and the minister gets a word behind it? If it goes a few minutes from 1800 hours, let's not make a problem. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8831	Thank you. You're a little broadly interpreting the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8832	Better wide than not to interpret it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8833	Mr. Angelkovic, I agree that sometimes it takes a little joke, but they're not exactly legal acts for jokes, but good. I mean, it's not true what Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic said from the assembly pay phone. The simple fact is that only the Democratic Party MPs were in favour of the debate, because they were not only Serbian Radical Party MPs, but also MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia. You showed, Mrs. Lakicevic, that you were afraid of that debate. You said, "You will, you have shown to be seen, we want to know and show the nation how Mr. Boris Tadic managed Serbia, what he did." Has Mr. Tadic increased the salary to anyone but himself? It's not. Has Mr. Boris Tadic increased someone's pension in Serbia? No, and he promised. Did Mr. Tadic secure any new jobs? No, and he promised. Maybe he is one of his closest associates. Maybe Mr. Gilas or someone else. I don't know if someone's in the crowd. Did he solve the Bodrum affair, like he said? It's not. Has he done anything for the citizens of Serbia? Yes, it is. It's not true he didn't. Yeah, he was helping our football players when they lost six to zero to Argentina to lose five to one to Australia. He worked hard and worked hard, but I would like what it really is, what it really is and essentially did for the citizens of Serbia. Now, after these replicas and duplicates of ours, I can say he didn't do anything and you know it well. He is not planning to do anything except to fight his political opponents with a marketing campaign, to say yes, I am the best, the most beautiful, the mirror loves you very much, and never anything for the citizens and the people of Serbia to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8834	Mr. Wolfie, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8835	Mr. Angelkovic, I knew you were right, but that in exactly three minutes and zero seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8836	I'll tell you why. Because I just let you go a minute and a half longer, and secondly because I widely interpreted the Rules of Procedure, extensively, as you said. And before you, according to the Rules of Procedure, Minister Lalovic should have received the word, but since I was correct and allowed you the word before the minister, I would ask you to be correct too.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8837	I don't know what the reasons are for the representatives of the authorities to refuse to discuss the work of the President of the Republic. It did not have to end with our victory, nor would there be victory, because Serbian citizens have lost anyway. We think we also lost Mr Tadic's choice and everything he did in the meantime. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has lost democratic legitimacy to a good extent, because it has not allowed debate, to discuss a man who is part of the executive government, because some have been scared, and perhaps some have not wanted to disturb their relations at the time. That's what shouldn't happen to us again in the future. As far as we're concerned, we're going to insist on it, we're not going to make a difference, there's a two-headed regime, a buffalo executive power. One is the President of the Republic, one is the Government, but in any case we think, it is true, elections are a good solution, and whether they will be in February, March or May, however, I am convinced that Serbian radicals will win them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-11-11-0.u8838	Just a few things. First of all, Mr. Wolfie, you've been over it for two minutes, too, but that's not the point. Just to remind you, in Article 97, the MP to whom the exposure is addressed has the right to replication, but not immediately, but when it is enabled. It is not understood because in Article 96, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is obliged to specify the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but it is said to give the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. Therefore, it is understood, it writes very precisely what is there. When it comes to the minister, the member is also said to have the minister give his word as soon as he asks. I'm asking you to do a few more things. According to Article 81(4), we need to address the issue of tomorrow's work. On the basis of Article 84(4), an extraordinary session of the National Assembly may be held on a second day, if there are reasonable reasons for this, which the National Assembly president tells lawmakers when the session is decided to take place on another day. The President of the Assembly has empowered me to tell you that, given the vastness of the agenda and the contribution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw a number of laws, in order to complete the work successfully, to continue the session tomorrow at 10.00. If you're in the mood, it would be good to hear tomorrow at the beginning of Minister Lalovic. I thank Minister Lalovic and you for these four minutes. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00.
