ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u227	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. According to official records, 137 MPs are present. Please determine the quorum. I find we don't have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We'll try 11:00. Thank you very much. [[Resume session at 11.10 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2004. According to official records, 203 MPs are present. Please confirm the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Radulović, Natasa Micic, Goran Svilanovic, Goran Davidović, Išpanović Istvan, Miloljub Albianic and Vojislav Kostunica; later Vuceta Toskovic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - PROPOSALS ON THE DECISION OF THE GOVERNER OF THE National Bank OF SERBIA AND THE PRESIDENT AND MEETING MEETINGS OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA The Word has a National MP, Predrag Marković, and after that, the National MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure that we are in a position to fulfill the pre-election promises of everyone in this room these days. The obligation, I thank all those who spoke in the last two days, is to take care of the procedure and we will try, I hope, to the common forces, to solve any kind of procedural difficulties well-intentioned. All the MPs who are here promised something to the citizens of Serbia, they still did not know how much their electoral body was, and this is an opportunity, in the time when the government is formed, to do everything not directly to the government, but to the citizens of Serbia and joint promises. It is basically a package of electoral laws, so that we will never again fail to see half a million citizens represented in parliament. That is why this opportunity is to first correct that part of the injustice, because all those who spoke during the pre-election activities reminded of the need for justice, therefore this parliament will be the first institution to take care of its function. One of them is the control of the executive government, and that can be done primarily by strengthening those institutions that are independent of the government. I understand party interests, I understand that many of these speakers are using at this time to advertise their party or at least to encourage each other, but everyone who wants us to have a responsible authority in the future must participate in establishing the control of that authority. The National Bank of Serbia is an independent institution when the Council and the governor are elected legally, and must be independent of the government. That is why we do not have to wait, and that is the answer – whether we are in a hurry; we are in a hurry, we are in a hurry, we are in a hurry, we are in a hurry, we are in a position to start correcting injustices and to start creating independent institutions. In the proposal delivered, both for the Council and for the Governor, it is evident that it insists that these people can exercise control. Those who did not stop by reading the first lines in candidate biography could note that all these candidates for the National Bank of Serbia Council have different educations. If you've moved on, you've seen that they have extra education for finance. And why is that? Because the National Bank of Serbia directly influences business activities, security of external trade relations and, of course, monetary security. I see there are people here who are happy to read the newspaper, both old and new, and if they have read the newspaper in the past three years, not the ones with fake affairs and gossip, but the serious ones in the paper, they will notice that in their proposal for the National Bank of Serbia, the names of people who have, in the past three years, but before, put various critical remarks on individual decisions of the National Bank of Serbia. Then welcome such people, because only those who have made objections, whether they belong to a foreigner or not, are welcome to control the governor. Of course, for the governor, what we know about his expertise is crucial, but that's not enough. No one here spoke of skills in a negative sense, on the contrary, many spoke positively about the expertise of the current Council and the current governor, who were unfortunately illegally elected. The waist isn't enough, she's not talking about how people will behave. You know very well how many professional people don't run away from anything, even the greatest experts. The National Bank of Serbia Council, which failed to resign when evidence came that they were illegally elected, recommended that it could not control anyone, independent of its expertise, because it is not ready to carry moral consequences. Here someone reminded us yesterday that no spectacular conference was held at the National Bank of Serbia for the last seven months, which is probably quality; well, it's not. Doesn't that tell you anything? It could have been a spectacular conference that would have fulfilled any promise made since September, and if it had always been -- in case I was found illegally elected, I resign immediately. That was news in September, October, November, December, and that's news from the day before yesterday. We haven't seen the consequences. Citizens must trust the National Bank of Serbia, because it is an independent institution and it, along with this parliament, in its own way controlled by the Council, must control the government. Every government, it is well-known by Professor Milosevic who constantly reminds it, tends to break down, even when he has laws around him. And here it was said why there's no government law in the first place; there's no government yet. Yesterday, one MP spoke of the need to pass a conflict of interest law. It is necessary and I believe in all of you that you will pass that law, but that you will also allow control of that law, because whenever someone says, listen to what they say, and ask yourself, and where they say it. I have one message that will be important to all of us: what is the obligation of this Parliament? To take care of facts, not to be able to advertise or respect some new customs. I'm saying that people tend to carry old newspapers on this pay phone, I guess, in case they need to, so they can be read before they use it. The problem is, these newspapers are yellow stamps. Why do you think they're called yellow? It's not a newspaper problem. The problem is what kind of picture they're creating. The picture created by this parliament cannot be the same as the picture created by the yellow press. This parliament must show it can provide control and security to citizens; not only citizens living in this country. I looked at, like you, the biography of Radovan Jelasic. I know Mr Jelasic; of course there is no conflict of interest with him. You won't believe a diary in which a bank boasted that its director would be Mr. Jelasic as of June 1st. Of course the bank boasted of his expertise. At the beginning of that biography, he writes something else: that Mr. Jelasic was born on February 19th; this is today. I have no intention of talking about Mr. Jelasic. I want to abuse your attention and talk about his father, who is a Serbian from Hungary and who decided to take his children from the socialist Hungarian school in Serbia. His children ended up in Serbia at the highest school, and today there is a possibility that one of his sons would become governor. It's a message to the Serbs in Hungary. This protects national interests, as it is proven whether you are capable of protecting parliament by putting the character of Slobodan Jovanovic in the most important, large banknote. This proves that national interests are defended, not behind the speaker. (President: Time. ) Fortunately, there are enough people here -- and I believe in every one of you, no matter which party you belong to, because I trust your voters -- who will support what is the achievement of national interests, not an empty story about them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u230	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, followed by a National MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is overwhelming after the note of Mr Jelasic's birth date to conclude that we have decided to give him the National Bank of Serbia for his birthday. We'll see which other candidates have birthdays, so let's see what else there is to give. But indeed, the reasons for the vote against putting aside the election of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council are troikas. The first reason is procedural nature. So, except for the failures in the dates when respect for the Rules of Procedure and the Assembly's agenda is at stake, we are also procedurally discussing putting aside the decision on the choice of governors, the existing and current, and the election of a new governor, which is illegal and which is a sign that this assembly meeting, unfortunately, has begun to work upside down. The second is the fact that during this procedure we will vote on one and the other, because if we vote as a Assembly on putting aside the decision on the election of Kora Udovicki, and we do not vote for the election of Radovan Jelasic, we will have a problem. That's why these two dots can't follow each other on the agenda. All of these points, as well as the entire agenda, essentially speaks of why it was put as a first and second point, because it was a coalition in an attempt, or creation of a majority in the National Assembly in an attempt. Each coalition has its own price and it will be the first and most important subject in public, so what is the cost of the coalition, and it will be called trade. When it comes to the opposition, it will be called the interests of the state, and when it is the ruling majority, it will be called the interest of the programme or will be called the interest of Serbia's progress, but it will be the price of the coalition. This is the first time we have a corporal for the coalition and that capara is the National Bank of Serbia. This is what the National Assembly is doing today by deciding and discussing the out-of-force decision to elect Governor Kori Udovici and voting on a new governor. The second reason is that candidates do not meet the conditions of choice, because the governor is a politically colored person, which is contrary to the law. Three members of the Five Council are politically colored and biased, and this is in conflict with individual members of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Furthermore, by a decision that you will vote on earlier, if the majority is gathered in an attempt to put out of force, you are putting into the hands of the future governor a space for him to decide which act Governor Kori Udovicki will put out of force. It is called the area of corruption, and it will naturally cause doubts in this congregation. That's what the opposition's for. So, what decisions, if elected illegally, will the future governor put out of force and which ones won't? How much is it going to cost, and is it part of the corporal for the coalition; or will they dress in what is called an interest in restoring dignity to the congregation? The dignity of this congregation cannot be restored in the wrong way. Finally, the third reason, except for these first two, violence against the procedure and failures of the conditions that candidates should fulfil under the law when it comes to the Board of Governors and Governors, these are political comments that this is a step back from the composition of people who are today the Council of the National Bank of Serbia and what it did to Kori Udovicki as governor. Of the political neutral figures, of the top professionals, we here in the Assembly agree that, while the real majority in the attempt, they are politically biased persons, party members, party officials and people who, apart from the will of the majority who are unimpeached, do not guarantee that they will really continue to work on building the independence of the National Bank institution and what the National Bank needs to do to support the budgetary and economic policy of the future government of the Republic of Serbia. If we were to choose anything in this assembly, we should have chosen the government of the Republic of Serbia. If this agenda wanted a test of whether there is a majority for the government's election and whether we will accept, as a Assembly, that for each appointment, we will have this kind of political trade and this kind of impact on the procedure in the Assembly, then it will not be good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or for the National Bank of Serbia, and at least for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I want two words - because I know that the majority of everything can and is bound by never their own will for self-control, but always control of the opposition in the Assembly, and because I know that the opposition and the ruling majority share responsibility for this Assembly and because I know how much it takes each time for the ruling majority to give the most well-intentioned advice that any pride towards the legality of the procedure is expensive; it is always greater, much greater than the price of a coalition or a coalition caper that is in an attempt - to thank the National Bank of Serbia's governor, on behalf of the citizens and citizens of Serbia, on high professionalism, high crafts and courage which, in their work on the construction and defence of independence of the National Bank of Serbia, also showed the governor of the National Bank and the President and members of the National Bank of Serbia's Council of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u232	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, followed by MP Cedomir Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party, or the SRS parliamentary group, is proposed, through the presentation of our MPs and deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Alexander Vukic, it seems to me, the best and only possible solution - to withdraw this proposal, to comply with certain procedures and to resolve the governor first; or whatever you want, cancel the decision on the choice of governor, although we consider it illegal and illegal, and only then do we deal with these affairs, or a proposal to elect a new governor. You reject it, and we will continue to strive to show you that you are making the same mistake your predecessors made, which by force the number of MPs decided on something that we see today is illegal. At that time, some Milks, some Petkovics, Milosavljevici, the AFZ in your ranks, used the force of votes instead of the force of arguments. Your proposal for Governor Radovan Jelasic, the man you propose, began his professional career in 1995. In five years' time of service, he became the vice governor of the National Bank, and now, eight or nine years old, he's supposed to be our governor. You know, in some serious private companies in Nis, such as "Nana", "Rasa", "Milosic", with so many years of internships, could possibly be head of accounting, possibly be head of some sector, but certainly not head of these companies. Do you know why? People are interested in their capital, in the value they've created. We wouldn't let a man with so little experience run a serious company, and today we want to trust a man like that to run the National Bank. Again, the same case is repeated in this National Assembly, as the Social Democracy used to do, as those in the GSS used to do; you know, the little ones blackmail big, conditionalally speaking big ones. It's a small bar, and yet they're small and crocodiles, but it's a lot of crocodiles. You should give everyone something, appetites grow. They would like diplomacy, and these finances, along with finance, say, give us the National Bank. Why the National Bank? Well, well, we've already had her, so let's see, maybe we've stored something that Cory Widowsky hasn't found, hasn't worked out, maybe that's exactly where she's waiting for us. Says Mr. Milko Stimac, saying he was there when he broke into the National Bank -- not everyone was wearing masks. We know they weren't all masks, they were some people who weren't wearing masks, and here we didn't recognize you among people who didn't have a mask. Thus, in the way you came, with one violence, you are trying to respond with violence in the congregation. There's no difference between violence. Violence has been done outside the Assembly with weapons, masks, force and violence that takes place in the Assembly by the number of votes of coalition partners is also violence. There's no difference, only the scene of violence is different. We, the Serbian radicals, seem to be playing a chess game here that, on the one hand, leads the DSS, and then the idea is gone, some new move is gone, something that will lead to qualitative change, and then drags some kind of cross-move. This cross-movement doesn't mean any progress, it means just getting time, because the teat lurks, and better to play that move and a certain number of moves in a certain time, but to drop that flag and to lose the game. You gentlemen don't have a government deal. It's obviously some unnatural coalition you're trying to close. We're not getting involved here. We think you're making the wrong moves. You shouldn't have pulled the trigger. Imagine, we are still working on the Rules of Procedure, which was written by Mr Dragan Marsican, and who has enriched in the practice of Mrs Natasa Micic and some from the Democratic Party, some from the coalition at the time, have enriched. We are still under threat that the MP may be expelled, punished for not coming into this congregation for several months, for his hand to be dragged into his pocket. We're still working on these conditions that the MP can't stand the amendment, but he's putting it on behalf of the parliamentary group, because we're still not an individual, we're the people someone has chosen, we're part of the pack, we're part of the group, we're the people that the citizens have chosen, and we don't have the rights of the MPs. We thought that we would deal with amending the Privatisation Act, because as we sit here and discuss the governor, and that the previous governor has not been replaced, Vlahovic continues under the law against which we are all, I think, privatising businesses in Serbia. Now he wants the Nitex, he's got his eye on the Nitex in Nis. He wants to privatise it by letting the state write off the company's debts, and the future owner will buy it for 10 euros. I can buy for 10 euros when someone pays back their previous debts; well, come on, let's change that law. We're still working without the government, no budget prepared, and the March moon is on the threshold. When do we go if we don't now? How long are we gonna do this job? We do not defend Kori Udovici, and especially because of what Božidar Djelic is proposing and defending, the God whom you all call "God's Derikoza" here. We haven't forgotten how Kori Udovici was chosen and what strength was behind Kori Udovici. We didn't forget that waiting outside the National Assembly building, when some people were harassed by the Democratic Party representatives, the MP group of the SRS at the time were ready to lynch it. We can't forget that. We're not defending Cory Widowsky because she didn't resign when she became aware that she was illegally and illegally elected here. This does not mean, unless we defend it with at least the strength of our words, that we will allow once again a harsh violation of the law, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, to violate good customs and to do something that we think makes no sense and is not based on the law. We have to ask you once again from this place not to waste time and work on our priorities, so we can stop this debate and turn to the jobs that are in some order: so, the Rules of Procedure, the Law of Privatization, so we can choose the Government and do what the citizens here and send us for. It won't be too hard to wait for someone else to be governor of the National Bank. After all, even the predecessor Kori Udovicki did not celebrate, Kori Udovici did not celebrate, we have no reason to believe that Radovan Jelasic will be better. If it's Dad's wish, which educated his son from Hungary in Serbia, let's do it if he has the consent of the majority, so let's keep Mr. Radovan Jelasic's father on the 10,000 dinar bill, so Dad deserves it because he's educated his son.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u234	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u235	I'm especially glad you listened to me yesterday. You didn't listen to me very carefully, however. I'm glad you recognize me when I'm not wearing a sock on my head. Otherwise, I wear it all the time. You can tell by me. That's the kind of guy I am. All G17s are guys like that, with socks on our heads, we're breaking into the institutions of the site. Look, no matter how long you keep repeating and repeating, you won't make a mistake out of it. That's not a fact. There was no intrusion with machinations of masked people into the National Bank. It's never happened, it's a fiction you've been contradicting for three years and you keep repeating, trying to make some people sick. Thank God, that's not working. Once again, it didn't happen. Now you can continue to talk as much as you want, to waste time, to have this whole discussion spread out all over again, to make some kind of obstruction in the establishment of the system institutions, but I guess that's not our goal here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u236	The People's MP Cedomir Petkovic has the word, followed by the MP Milorad Mircic. Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here on the first proposal to establish a coalition we have continuity; the continuity of lawlessness. The previous government managed to do so by inventing a new category of MPs, and virtual MPs were called. These are MPs who voted from Turkey, Thessaloniki, Beijing and various parts of the world. You have succeeded in a simple way by taking accomplices to this previous crime as coalition partners. How did they cooperate? That's why they were called an expert group back then. They're famous experts. What did the experts impose on you at the very beginning? They've imposed that for the sake of your personal revenge, you're going into lawlessness. We Serbian radicals have nothing against yours within coalition agreements, but we want to protect in this assembly the law, procedure, democracy. Whether you liked it or not, we're not interested. We should tell the citizens of Serbia what you intend to do at the very beginning. The proposal to elect governors is the most obvious example that you, by that people's "clining out" prove that DOS is in any form and that there is a significant raw material base for wedges, and nothing else. What the promoter predicted here is that, at all costs, it is illegal for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, who is a member or not a member of the G17 Plus. Why? To maintain continuity. Continuity with that governor who was illegally in that position. Remember, gentlemen, Mladjan Dinkic was also declared a false governor by earlier authorities. Now you Corra Widows are declaring yourself a false governor. What's this? This is the continuity of a false governor. What do you want? You want to lead Serbia astray. How can you, gentlemen, in an explanation for Cora Widowsky's resolution to write that she was never chosen? Do you think as mature people, are you aware of the fact that you are responsible? What are we going to do, gentlemen, ask you, with those bills that Cory Widowsky signed? What do we do with them? Are those forgeries? You remember how you objected individually or as a party against the current prime minister's statement when he said Dinkic was a false governor, so the entire canon of the attack went to the Serbian prime minister's statement. You're making an even worse statement in writing now and you're saying she's never been chosen. Yes, gentlemen, it was published in the official messenger. At least you have the moral or any other right to object to us radicals and to force us to defend Kori Udovici. We were objecting then, opposed, but many of you who are now sitting in a new coalition when you have judged us, kicked us out of this room, punished, took every measure of the most rigorous that has never been seen in parliament, only to prevent the sprawling radicals from even then preventing your yawning, your thieving, your crime. Now you've remembered new choices, now you want to be honest. I don't mind, we radicals don't object, you can be honest. Most likely, one part will become the moment you are members of the Post Board. Because it's the only way to be honest. What you forget, your continuity with previous authority dates back to the previous period. You forgot that President G17 plus Miroljub Labus, who was Deputy Prime Minister even during Radoj Kontic. You forget, when you talk here, that you're the authors of certain things. I'm talking primarily about these G17 Pluss, that you're the authors of this nastodial monetary policy, that you and how significantly you're guilty of your participation in determining and running a macroeconomic policy; so now you're not going to attribute it to someone else. Who was the most responsible captivator policy? Miroljub Labus. Who ran the monetary policy? Dinkich. We have an understanding. You always give your coalition partners two options: one is to choose from their ranks a senior student or from your ranks a senior assistant; and then, when a person chooses better is a senior assistant. But you forgot, gentlemen, one thing. Meanwhile, many studies have been published, scientific papers, which point to a devastating policy led by the head of the National Bank, former Governor Dinkic. Here you boast and say – during the term of office of Mladjan Dinkic was a solid course of dinar. Is there anyone more in Serbia to believe that this story is good for Serbia? After all, the basis for such a solid course is not production, it is not real value, but the foreign exchanges you bought from Serbian citizens are foreign exchanges and those foreign exchange funds when you were making a change of currency, as you say, extremely quickly and to all your happiness you are praised for it by the international community or by the IMF. Then you forgot just one detail, how much commission was there for that job? On the basis of this commission, significant foreign reserves have increased. Where did you get the other foreign reserve? You did it very quickly. It's your former governor. He even published a book, where he criticized the former regime, in which many of you participated. Contrary to hyperinflation, which has the same meaning and the same effect, is a stable course of dinar. How? By raising the price of services at low wages, a man has to take out what's in the straws to pay. How did you get exactly how many people they keep in the straws? When you switched currencies, you turned into a euro. You knew exactly that between three and four billion euros. Now you're continuing by determining your personality. Our personality doesn't matter that much. It is more important to us and we warn Serbia of the danger of continuity that you want to maintain with this personality. The DSS throws a story or a ball on the other side. He says we're interested in a sugar affair. Who's the most responsible for the sugar affair? Miroljub Labus. He said in a report to the Republic government, besides there are stenograms, records - the opposition of the international community has no meaning, he personally spoke to them, preferences remain still, is that right or not? What do you think, during the night you get up, as this colleague says, we didn't recognize him at the National Bank, so you get up and say, "We weren't in the government, it was another Miroljub Labus." Gentlemen, you're wrong if you think Serbia has given you confidence because you convinced someone in the election campaign. See how many MPs you have in this assembly. That's your best criterion. You from G17 plus, thanks to the Democratic Party's weaknesses, have entered this parliament. Only thanks to this weakness and that fact, but such parliamentary groups are short-lived. What are you saying, gentlemen, that you didn't use crime, forgeries. If you had some face and morals, you'd never say that. The first party to steal MPs here is G17 plus. You didn't participate in the elections, you weren't even registered as a political party, and you had your MP. Who are you giving a moral class to? (President: Please stick to the agenda points a little bit, as much as you can. ) Here you are, and you are continuity, but unlike these, you have a name and a last name and you have continued your work, you begin again, Mr. Martian, and you have experience with us radicals. There were much harder words said here, and it went off topic here, but you didn't take the right to interrupt. But, well, I'm used to you, no problem at all. As for the liquidation of banks, you said it was inevitable. You've just forgotten something, gentlemen, you've liquidated your homework to introduce foreign banks. Foreign banks entered without any burdens, no debts, no commitments to the economy, and the easiest thing to do was to lock up, to remove domestic banks employed on the street, and you say no one was out of a job. Here was a bile debate about all those who were left on the street, who were out of work thanks to the reform laws and programmes. But don't, gentlemen, live in the belief that you will succeed in everything. The moment will come soon when you will argue with each other here, and we will always tell the people who you are and what you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u238	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to inform you of something that essentially changes the course of the session. I demand, in accordance with Article 94, that there be no confusion, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under which the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion, to do so in order to consider, rather than in advance, to reject what I am about to tell you. Because what I'm about to tell you is based on the law, the Rules of Procedure, and it has to happen. So this item of the agenda has to be withdrawn. And I'll tell you why? The request has just arrived, i.e. a call for the third session of the Finance Committee. It proposed, as a agenda, the withdrawal of Professor Daniel Florist's candidacy as a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council. Why did I say this? This item of the agenda must be withdrawn because we have clear provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as it behaves at an extraordinary session: there are no changes to the agenda. It cannot be determined that he withdrew his candidacy, as the proposal for a decision to elect the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia's Council is said to elect Vojin Bjelic as members of Council Daniel Cvjetljanin for a period of four years. There can't be an emergency session that changes this act. It could come to the conclusion that he's already been elected. He wasn't elected. The act cannot be changed by violence, in such a way, during an extraordinary session, but a new emergency session must be scheduled. So that's what law enforcement has to do, whether you like it or not, and it's not possible. So it's absolutely legally impossible to do things differently. Mr. Florist is withdrawing his candidacy. He can't be chosen, and you can't change the text of this decision at an emergency session, or change the agenda. It's as clear as the sun, and I expect the representatives of the majority to come out here and just say that this point is withdrawn from the agenda, because the exits from this situation, legal and business, are gone. All those who have worked in this congregation know this, and all who look at the Rules of Procedure and the Law know it. I'm asking you to do this, so we don't act against the law. Therefore, Mr. Florist's wish on the Committee will be clearly established. It is impossible for the Committee to behave differently, and whatever the Committee concludes, it will have to determine the decision of Professor Daniel Florist. He withdrew his candidacy, so you cannot choose him as a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Since you can't, and you can't change it in a business way, then the only thing left to do is to withdraw this item from the agenda and have a new emergency session that will be discussed. It's the only possible way out of this situation. So anything else is anti-business, illegal and legally impossible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u240	Of course, I will not judge your arguments, but I do not see any need to delay Parliament's work, any consultations on this issue at this point are not necessary. First, we can't know what's going to happen at a committee session that hasn't even started yet. One of you mentioned Wang yesterday. I'm not Wanga. So, I don't know, we'll see when the Committee sits down what kind of decision it will make, whether it will be information, whether information will be accepted, whether a new candidate will be proposed, at this point I don't know. Once we know, we will see again the opinion of the committee responsible whether it is necessary to hold a debate on this matter on another committee. Of course, we won't be having this debate during this session, so we continue our work. Let's run the controversy, if that's your pleasure. I don't see the need. The committees will assess that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u241	No, Mr. Martian, there's no controversy. It's Mr. Florist's personal attitude and there's nothing to say about you, me, or anyone else in this room. There is nothing to declare, nor can it bring a change of candidates, Mr Simonovic, an extraordinary session, no change of acts, no change of agenda points, no order. You know that, I'm sure. You're one of the most experienced MPs. There's no such thing, my people. There's no other solution, there's nothing to go on, there's nothing to go on. He just can't. He can do anything, but he can't do it by law and by the Rules of Procedure. I know you know that, and that's why I'm asking you to withdraw this item of the agenda and it's impossible to do otherwise. So that's what the Florist said, it can't come to a change of proposal, you have to understand that. There may be an alteration of the proposal, but it has to be a new emergency session. We're in an emergency session. Those who have spent so many years in this congregation know so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u242	Just a very short one. Dean Michael's on the phone. You'll get your word. There's no change to the proposal, Mr. Wolfie. There is no change in the proposal and there will be no change in the proposal according to the agenda, as I see from the agenda. The fact that a man has been pulled off the list you've received is not an amendment to the proposal, but that we're not leaving... Only one less member will be elected. Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u243	If I could get a little involved in this controversy. Judging by what is said to be no change in acts, this would mean that the motions for an emergency session cannot even change amendments if there is no change in acts. If amendments are allowed, that means acts can be changed, and this is one of the acts we're discussing at this session. So, simply, changes are allowed. If in your opinion there is no change in acts, then that would mean that there is no amendment to the bill, that it is forbidden. Then let us schedule an emergency session and say: all proposals are adopted in the text as proposed, or not adopted. There are no amendments. So, a committee that is a draft act, like me when I'm a legislator of some other law which I can accept some other amendment that will change the text of the law, so the committee can make a proposal for a decision in the course of the debate itself, because it's simply allowed, because we do not change the agenda points, nor anything else, but simply a motion for a decision can change [[Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u244	Mr. Michael, you'd be right about the law. This is a decision to make. No amendments, Mr. Michael. There are no amendments to the decision. Please, you know that, withdraw the proposal, it's the only possible solution to the legal exit from the crisis. In this decision it writes - the motion for a decision, which we are discussing, should there be a change of proposal, we should also have a new debate, because here today, gentlemen, we are pleading. We're talking to Mr. Florist, and that's impossible in an emergency session. So, if he comes, for example. Dejan Dejanovic, or Zoran Zoranovic, or anyone here, in a new proposal, or anywhere, and then a new debate goes on. It's got to be a new session of the Assembly. Everything has to be new. It's the only way out of this situation and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u245	Here, if I may, and let us end this debate, let me repeat to you, there will be no other name than a withdrawn name. And the committees will consider your objections, as well as your proposal, and then we'll continue our work. But while we're at it... Proposer, go ahead. The Finance Committee? Proposer; well, well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u246	I would just ask the question – if there are no amendments to the decision, why did the SRS submit amendments to the first item of the agenda. We have two amendments to the SRS to the proposal for a decision on the first item of the agenda. So let's not use lies here. Use whatever it takes to do what you think is important to you right now. Let us try to understand that it is important that this congregation continues to work. You are in vain trying to interfere with the work of the Assembly according to the agenda, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u247	You, Mr. Paunović... Mr. Paunovic has no idea what he's talking about. Mr. Paunovicu, you do not know the difference between general and individual legal acts. Look, read the Rules of Procedure, and come out for a pay phone. I asked you yesterday to pull this point out of the agenda, to finally find a way out of this situation, to show a little understanding. But you don't want to do it, you want to do it anyway, and you want to keep doing it anyway. If there is no Mr. Florist in the proposal, and no new name is added, the proposal has been amended, people. The proposal has been amended because there are no Florists in the proposal. So, it's a crucial thing. The proposal has been changed. Deleting Daniel Florist is a new proposal, Mr. Paunovic, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u248	Mr. Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u249	To join another illogicality to what we have heard now, which is – if the motion for a decision is, that is, to amend the motion for a decision, it requires a new session. I signed a motion an hour ago to change the decision of the RIK, and at the request of the SRS, to change the order of candidates... Here, change of decision. [[growls]] It's a change of heart. Does this mean that you're looking for RIK's new session, given that we've made a change of decision, that you've moved your people from the post of RIK's deputy to other places and didn't ask for this point to be removed from the agenda, and you're asking for this point to be removed from the agenda. There's a little bit of a illogical thing here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u250	It would be good if, Mr. Michael, you were to serve the truth, you would do well to read the paper you received in an honorable, honest and correct way. It would be good because it does not serve your honor because I know that you know that we are right about everything we say, and I know that you have no way out because you have to fill the whims of one MP group. This is about correction and it's written that it's a technical mistake, that it's a technical matter. If it's a technical mistake for you to choose members of the NBS Council, in the motion for a decision, then there's no problem. This isn't about changing the act itself, it's about something we passed on as our right. If you mean to compare it with this and say it that way - Eureka, I found a way out of everything, I managed to say something, and then you didn't do anything about it, Mr. Michael. Let it be the decision you want with RIK, but it cannot be changed and cannot be identified in such a way. And in what we've delivered you, it's clear what it says, and it says that it's about correction, the technical error of our administration, which has provided different names for different functions, and we asked you to. It's not a dispute. But not about the key issue, the key thing, like the governor's name, like the name of a member of the NBS Council. Now, that's the difference between you and me. And you haven't found a solution. And you won't find him, Mr. Michael, no matter how successful you are, no matter how experienced you are in your parliamentary work, no matter what you try to find, from this situation we're in right now, Mr. Michael. You know, everyone in this assembly, the only possible way out, on the basis of the law, is to withdraw this item of the agenda. Legal violence is if this point stays on the agenda and it's not some petty, procedural question, and it's not that we're looking for hair in the egg, and it's not that we want to, as an opposition political party, to say to the newly established majority -- well, we found something in which we're going to tell you -- we can't, so now we're reaching political points. This item of the agenda must be withdrawn. Get her ready for the next emergency session, pick whoever you want. Not that most of them, I'm sure, will be changed, at least until next session, you can vote on the governor, but don't do it in an illegal and anti-constitutional way. I hope that after the next election, no one will show up again smart enough to put this under the rug, as you've put the choice of DOS governors and everything else. I hope so, because there's going to be some new, other, smarter government, radical, that won't do it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u251	Interestingly, we've heard that a change of decision can be small and large. So you can be a little pregnant and a lot pregnant. He can't. The change of decision, whether it's a technical mistake or something else, is a change of decision. It's all a change of heart. And if, in one case, you think and interpret that this change in decision is small, not big enough to take it off the agenda, it is your right to say it, but every change in decision, it was small, it was big, it was a result of a technical error or someone else's mistake, it was a change of decision. And if, in one case, the consequence of the change of decision is that this point is removed from the agenda, then it should have that as a consequence of any and all cases of change of decision, including the one you made today, which I signed. This is what I signed by thinking that this is not why we're taking this point off the agenda, as I think the change of decision that the Finance Committee is about to make is no reason for us to take this point off the agenda, and that's all. I may not be a good lawyer, but we should treat the same things equally, or we should take both points off the agenda or both points remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u252	During this interesting debate, and all the facts will be taken into account by the committee responsible at its session if it follows this work, I have received official information from the Department of Electronic Systems, at the request of the chairman of the Democratic Party parliamentary group, and this is about voting units. "At the request of the National Assembly Secretary, regarding the statement by MP Milan Markovic, presented at the meeting of the National Assembly on 18 February 2004, the Department of Electronic Systems in the National Assembly gave the following report: In the second and third lines, two seats were reserved for the service of the secretary who follows the course of the session. In three of those places, there is no unit for the electronic voting system, and fourthly there is such a unit that is blocked and cannot be voted on. This situation has been in those places since 1995, at the request of the National Assembly's ministry at the time. We note that the E-voting system in the Assembly Hall makes 291 units available, 285 of them in parliamentary seats, and six on the working presidency table, so that in the event of the presence of all 250 MPs, there are conditions for them to vote from their seats. “ Since it is the places at the very end of the second and third lines, it can be easily found that the places shown in the photographs are on the list whose name I will not advertise, active places with active MPs, and on one of them is currently sitting Mr. Professor. Velimir Simonovic. We can continue the debate. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Please make the Management Board known about this. After this, I don't see what the Administrative Committee... a, that's a broken Rules of Procedure, all right. The People's Messenger Goran Cvetanović has the word, and then the People's Messenger Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Kori Udovici, was made in an unconstitutional, illegal and immoral manner. Is it necessary from the wrong to exercise law? Obviously not. That is why Serbian radicals have well-intentionedly repeatedly sent a message to all MPs that this item of the agenda should be postponed. It is clear that we are well-intentioned, precisely because Mr. Daniel Florist of the Democratic Party of Serbia has withdrawn his candidacy. He is a candidate for the National Bank Council and a member of the Council who is elected for four years. Whether he had the upper hand to be president of the council, so he was not allowed to do so, so he retired, is obviously a problem in the Democratic Party of Serbia and should be resolved by them. And according to the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to amend the proposal and open a whole new debate on this agenda point. So according to the Rules of Procedure, we need to educate these new, young people who are just learning what and how they should and how they can behave in the National Assembly. The explanation given that the failure to make such a decision by emergency procedure could have been highly harmful for the work of state authorities, the lives of citizens and the continuity of the representation of the Republic of Serbia in international financial institutions. That's the problem, because the state authorities didn't work exactly while the G17 plus representatives were in those state bodies, citizens' lives came to that social sustainability threshold, and we are concerned about the continuity of the representation of the Republic of Serbia by representatives of the G17. As for the candidate for governor, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, in his biography, it is interesting that it is only at the end of the date and place of birth that everything moves in reverse. Mr. Jelasic was born today in 1968, but the birthplace was not notified, obviously it is a secret. I am not saying this without reason, first of all because Mr. Jelasic is the right hand of Mladjan Dinkic. Mladjan Dinkic was born in Vlasotinc, a district where I come from, and if you look at that whenever Mr. Labus was a candidate for Serbia's president and on the other hand was a candidate for the Serbian Radical Party, representatives of the SRS received more than 70-85% of the votes in that place, and all of them remained as many as 100%. When the last parliamentary elections were now, right where Dinkic came from, representatives of the SRS received more votes than all the other parties combined. That's exactly what the popularity of Mladjan Dinkic is in the place where he was born and his family lives. Is it because Mr Dinkic had just promoted the best candidate from Vlasotinc, Bogoljub Mitic, known as Djosa, an actor who moved from JUL to the SPS, that was where he welcomed Slobodan Milosevic and shared with him with the people, and then probably because he coughed in his presence without his approval; he said he resisted the former regime. Then BK was advertised, advertised by the People's Peasant Party, and ended up running for MP in front of the G17. They know him as an oil smuggler in Vlasotinc, and even MP Zivorad Stefanovic from the SPS enabled him to have the fuel that the SUP took away from him, so probably that's why voters are going so well, i.e. candidates for MPs from the Jablani County. Radovan Jelasic, as a close associate of Dinkic, has already worked on these jobs, has already been a vice governor. Some of the affairs are familiar, I'm just going to tell you, it's a well-known affair of money laundering at the Heward company LTD from the Marshall Islands, owner of Zoran Mitrovica, via the HVB of the Bank of Segedin, amounting to 19m euros. The Marshall Islands are well mentioned during the last period of time, it is a small country with 10,000 inhabitants and 20,000 taxpayers. There's so many registered companies on these islands, they're of a brother-in-law company. Since taxes are paid at an annual level of only $1,000, whether you have a million dollars or a million euros in turnovers or only a thousand, then all those who try to launder money do so over these islands, and therefore through the HVB bank and right in Segedin, because Segedin is the closest to Serbia, who goes to Budapest and wastes time on money transfers. That's why something in the last time period keeps mentioning the G17 on these islands, so it's clean information that makes you know why these islands are so attractive and why they keep forming on these Marshall Islands of Shore companies. Is it by any chance that he is now a candidate for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Radovan Jelasic, director of the HVB Bank for Serbia-Montenegro? Obviously, it's not an accident. It belongs to G17, a party that closed down twenty banks and 8,000 Serbian citizens are out of work. Meanwhile, the bankruptcy of some banks, primarily the Bank of Belgrade, and how it is possible for this particular Mr Jelasic, from the bankruptcy mass, to buy "mercedes" and several images, right from that bank that went into the balance, how to find him to buy, to be the first and to do it first, first and foremost, for himself. Mladjan Dinkic and Jelasic were already leading the National Bank of Serbia and the big question is how it is possible that they were exporting the foreign reserves of commercial banks, primarily to the Standard Bank in London and made a difference in revenues of $2.5m annually. What about the deposited foreign currency assets of the National Bank in Wexs, and now the Euroaxis bank from Moscow? There are reasonable doubts about the disappearance of gold, silver, platinum from the vault. What about the bills printed in London? A few tens of thousands of pounds have been paid to eventually find that it is not adequate paper, that protection is not good. Mladjan Dinkic signed that bill, and I guess someone needs to have some kind of conjecture for everything that's happened. What about the donations from the French government of 399,000 euros, given to the G17 Institute? National savings, the problem is open, but obviously we don't have a solution. What happened to the National Savings? There's plenty of time, we'll solve all the enigma. Who's responsible for the foreign trade deficit of $11 billion? Those who were in power all the time for three years, which is precisely Mr Dinkic and Mr Labus. Mr. Dinkic can solve a lot of problems, too. It's not all that black. Mr. Dinkic can first of all solve the pensioners' problems. You have over 1,200,000 pensioners, over 400 and some thousands are on the bottom of social sustainability and demand that they receive a pension of over 90 euros. I think only Mr. Mladjan Dinkic can solve that problem. His grandmother, who lives in Vlasotanc, has 36,000 dinar pensions. She never worked, although she inherited that pension from her husband, who unfortunately died in World War II, but I don't understand how she got that famous 36,000 dinar figure to receive such a pension. That's why I want him to solve the pensioners' problems and all pensioners have at least an approximate salary like his grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u254	The word of the messenger of the people is Darko Glisic, and after him is the messenger of the people of Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I have the honour of first speaking from this assembly pay phone, it is my turn to say that I was elected MP on the Serbian Radical Party's winning list - Dr Vojislav Seselj and that I come from Ub municipality. The Ub municipality was not well remembered by citizens, given some individuals who were often mentioned in the media. Not according to Djajic, I would say by Subotics, which you often mentioned, which Serbian radicals often mentioned, and rightly so. We got a little rusty, but I guess that's why the citizens voted massively for the Serbian Radical Party. We won there with confidence, just because they took that negative mortgage off their names. I have indeed been impressed by coming to this Parliament, since indeed 82 MPs in this Republic's parliament are, in some way, acting as representatives of other political options, that we will break up with that practice that we had in the previous session, with that behaviour, with that way of working that was in the previous session. We had one regret from the Democratic Party, that they were messing around with those voices, that they were doing a little gymnastics over the bench, and now it turns out they really faked that card thing. So we expected some better atmosphere, that some basic democratic principles would be respected. Since the election, however, the president of the National Assembly has proved to be deviating from practice and that we will indeed continue as the old one. This is shown when discussing, calling, and the procedure itself that goes with this extraordinary session, so it seems to me that the old systems and the old way of working will indeed characterise this congregation. The president of the assembly is the same as the one of three years ago and the Rules of Procedure that we have is indeed the Rules of Procedure which has designed absolutely this Parliament. Indeed, the Serbian Radicals were right when they asked first the Rules of Procedure to arrange the work of this assembly, to bring in a truly democratic Rules of Procedure on the basis of which we could work, to discuss, to treat Parliament properly and properly. We are now going to choose a new governor, and we have not resolved the previous governor. That once again confirms the practice you've practiced so far. If we could have more than 250 MPs sooner, why can't we have two governors now, although I think the first two points of the agenda are really unnecessary. If you want to establish institutions, then I really think that the institution of the President of the Republic is much more important and that the first points of the agenda should be to change the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, to discuss elections, to have this first and most important institution elected, and only then to go to the choice of governors. The second reason I think these two points are too high is especially when I saw who was proposed to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We heard that his basic characteristics were that he was a good associate of Mladjan Dinkic, that the two minors were one, that there was no difference between one and the other. If Mladjan Dinkic entered the National Bank of Serbia three or four years ago in such a way, Radovan Jelasic could have entered. We're wasting our time here, it's just showing how much you're breaking the procedure, it's just showing that you don't know some basic and elemental principles in the functioning of this Parliament. You could've gone on a chase, like you did and then you could've waited for some new election to get an even bigger ticket than the one you won in this election. It seems to me, and so did the deputy head of our parliamentary group, and indeed it is, that all this you are doing is compromises to form a republican government. The Democratic Party of Serbia, in order to gain trust from the G17 Plus party, is going to give them first the governor's seat and makes them this way to gain their trust in the vote on the republican government. I'm not psychic, and what Mr. Martian said, I'm not Vanga either, but everything is coming to me that the next step will be to call the parliament of the state community to elect a foreign minister. Something tells me it's going to be Mr. Vuk Draskovic. You go like that, take that step by step, get your majority. I don't know what's left for the SPS, it's probably that for some time there's been a ban on Slobodan Milosevic calling them, not to disturb them in what they're about to do. Finally, I would like to say something, and it is about what Mr. Dejan Mihajlov said yesterday, responding to Mr. Zoran Krasic, a Serbian Radical Party MP. Mr. Dejan Mihajlov said that Mr. Krasic did not tell the truth when he claimed that members of the Democratic Party of Serbia participated in crisis headquarters. No Serbian Radical Party MP lies, nor does Mr Krasic. I will now document to you that what Mr Krasic said is true: you participated in crisis headquarters. On November 2, 2000, an organized group of protesters raided the Ub Municipality Assembly, beaten the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, kicked them out and took over power in a truly illegal and illegal way. You, Mr. Dejane Mihajlov, were your party, involved in this because the chairman of the executive board of the public authority was Dragan Rankovic, a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia. So it's not true that you said you weren't involved. You are exactly the same as those with whom you are now trying to build power, you are exactly the same as they are, and indeed not me in your skin for the first next election, because with this 82 I expect for sure, since before that we choose Mr Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Republic of Serbia, that we will clean you up in parliamentary elections and that we will show that the government is in accordance with the law and that this Serbia is run in a proper host way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u256	The People's Messenger Paja Momcilov has the word, and then Branislav Rankic. At least these two other MPs can talk about what's on the agenda. I did not interrupt the previous speaker, who spent six minutes of our time not speaking one word to the MPs about the agenda point. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u257	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, here's a preventive attempt in some way to direct my discussion, but I will still say what I have come up with, because I have a right to do so. We MPs show the will of our constituents, and you cannot undo our right to speak for them. You may not like the contents of what we're saying some time, but you'll still have to listen to us. Today, we are discussing two points which are called the motions for a decision to put aside the decision on the election and not to speak further, and then the second point that we are talking about today - the motions for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank, etc. I think we're taking part in an incoherent debate, somewhat irrational. We've been trying for two days, we Serbian radicals, to tell you to take these points off the agenda, and we're not doing it. That's obvious. We are forced to participate in an extortional discussion. We have primarily said that we do not feel that this should be discussed today, because there is no legal, constitutional basis for discussing such decisions today. That's what the DSS representative, Mr. Dejan said; he said it well, and then he found the starting point for discussion and decision-making in the Rules of Procedure itself. In addition to considering that there is no legal basis, we have told you well that there is no principle in imposing such a debate, because far more significant decisions of this assembly and laws have been made by such theft and theft. Now that it's said, so we'll discuss these things later, it sounds good, but it's not principled. You must bring all thefts to the same level, about all thefts at the same time debate, then you are in principle performing and we might accept such a debate. But that is not the main reason why we Serbian radicals do not think these two points of the agenda should be discussed. Our key and fundamental assumption is that these are not important points, which are interested in Serbian citizens at the moment. If you look at the political scene of Serbia, the ordinary citizen who talks to you daily will have the impression of a chaos. The December 28th election results, expressed by the people's will that there is a majority in this SRS assembly, gave a clear message that the Serbian people refer to politicians, which is that at this point no one can rule Serbia, as it is, alone. The second message is clear and unequivocal, at this point in the government the crucial and most significant role should be given to Serbian radicals. It's the will of the people, and everything else that you're trying to prove in the context of new speeches, new definitions and new exhibitions, verbal and others is not true. With two or three words, I'll just explain why this doesn't matter to the Serbian people at this point. What's important is someone's gonna ask me. Economic issues are important, because if we don't want to talk about something that might be the same for this assembly, newly formed, to lay down rules of conduct and work, which is the Rules of Procedure, let's say that the Rules of Procedure are not important to the people, but for the people, it's absolutely important how they live today. The economy, the privatisation, the unemployed, those rates of taxes from Mr. God, whom they call the Gourmet God, who once again drove the people to the streets to sell on the cars goods, the gray economy blooms again on our streets, all of these are life-threatening problems that plague this people and primarily need to be solved. I come from health care. At the hospital, in the top institution where I work, the patient has to bring in strings to be operated. But these are not the key problems we need to deal with. We don't need to travel the roads to solve these problems, we need to solve personal issues, for the interests of individuals and interest groups, even if they are called political parties. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I know what I'm saying is not of interest to my distinguished colleagues from other party groups, but we Serbian radicals are saying this because we are witnessing the truth to the Serbian people, and the Serbian people know that we are right. Just a few things to tell you. Why is it irrelevant for us to make such a decision? Because all of the former governors, and starting with Mr Dinkic, via Mrs. Kori Udovicki, and the one that is now being offered, are absolutely the same personalities and they bring no change. Nothing changes. Why? Everything they say will lead monetary policy, fiscal policy, price policy, it's all written down and it's all defined by the IMF and in 2004 you can already see that all these solutions are written down, defined without our participation. Yes, three musketeers of our economy signed it, along with Mr Ivanisevic of Montenegro, to agree with it, and that's true. We are now attending a single sketch, a repeated sketch that can be called, dismount Kurt to mount Murth. It's a story and it's a waste of time that we're exposed to right now. Just two or three more notes, why are we radicals now raising our voice; you will say, for political reasons. No, I don't. For purely human reasons, we raise the voice of the protest, because by instigating a majority like this, a nakaradian, which you have because of the political circumstances in which it is located, this is where the spirit of Makiaveli came back to life. This is the spirit of Makiavelli not leaving this room. He didn't even lay low. So the truth doesn't matter, the goal justifies the means, we don't have a legal standoff, we don't have a constitutional foothold, but we have an interest, and we're going towards that interest. One more thing that's very important, and why we're raising our protest. We don't agree that in this artificial way, we are marginal, and I don't mean marginal in value, but parties that don't trust voters, and what we've had in the past, black sheep, white sheep, gray sheep, corporate participation take key positions in this country. It's happening right now on one less pronounced microplan and it shouldn't be allowed. We shouldn't, in fact, allow what we've had so far, that in key positions of government and administration in this country we have imputed, trained experts. Thank you very much. If we don't have our own senses, then we don't need our brains in the air, and in the end, that's what Mr. Kostunica said when he mentioned the current governor somewhere; then he said who the lady from Bolivia was. So now we don't have Bolivia, now we have Germany, and now it's okay, it's closer to our country, so it can be accepted. Here, if I have time, and I see that I have a few more seconds, I don't want to abuse your patience, I have a few more seconds. I just want to tell you two or three more things. It is that on these political occasions it is an emergency -- in winter, in February it is a month -- a political necessity that has forced non-principle coalitions to be created. It is that a dog with a cat will have to sleep and try to sleep with the help of mice. It's the inevitable that exists. We've heard all kinds of stories here, unprincipled and principled, that absolutely don't drink water. The president of the Democratic Party of Serbia comes out in the morning and says, read Mr. Jovanovic, he wrote that parliament should work, what a quorum we have, and Mr. Tadic comes out in the afternoon, so he says, so it no longer applies, it can be without a quorum, it is a new democracy. He's telling us, we've confessed to stealing and he's trying to avoid the time of the theft. You didn't admit, you later admitted, post-festum, you have great moral guilt for post-festum when you were exposed. We would have praised you and applauded you if you'd done it in time, but you didn't. So, if I don't go any further, this is what I end up with. Serbian radicals will surely have to be against for many reasons, both principled, basic, and it is the main thing that the Serbian people do not get anything, and it is possible to lose much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u258	The last registered MP is Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am an SRS MP from Bor, and mentioning the name of the guard from which I come should cause a sense of shame or at least bites the conscience of those who spend three years of their lives bright and dress over Serbia. What's the difference between the Mining-Toping Basen Bor and its systematic destruction with the National Bank? What I'm talking about you'll find out when I tell you that in Bora, besides the production of copper, products and gold. The production of copper in the mining-topic base plant Bor, as well as the accompanying metals, is ten times smaller now than it was during the bombing of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, and I am therefore mentioning the period of the last three years. The National Bank of Yugoslavia then, and now Serbia should, at that time, buy out pine gold and produce that gold by October 2000, was publicly shown, amounting to about 35kg per month. Since October 2000, no one in Bora has publicly shown and revealed the amount of gold production and where that gold goes. It is time for development and business, the more successful business, the base Bor established the Borska Banka that should have financially followed it all. On Friday, February 13th, this year, employees of the Borska Banka were able to notice that Friday 13th could really be black. In fact, some unbalanced people raided the Borska Bank that morning and brutally, applying force, threw out employees, and the bank was officially run as a bank in recovery. They say security was a bank rescheduling security detail. The employees didn't know anything, nor did the recovery agency do anything about the bank's recovery. Employees claim that only the bank's director was sent to it and the Zajecar Commercial Court made a decision, so on Friday, without meeting employees, all employees were thrown out onto the street by brutal force. You see, since four major Serbian banks were previously liquidated, the Borska Banka ran through needle ears at that time to avoid the fate of the liquidation and a resolution was declared. However, as Mladjan Dinkic, who could because he was already married to the famous musician and revolutionary, had no great resistance to destroy the four banks. He left little work for Cori Udovici, who may also be because she's a woman, so less brazen, so she's just managed to bankrupt the Borska Banka. My wish is to draw you a sign of equality here between Mladjan and Kori, and since those who have proposed a new governor have already equalized Mladjan Dinkic and Mr. Radovan Jelasic, that equality already exists in continuity. In addition to the name Radovan Jelasic, I will always mention the last name, so that someone doesn't think it's Radovan who can't possibly fit into this equation, so you have Mladjan as well as Kori Radovan Jelasic equals Rory. I mean the Rory Mr. Zoran Krasic mentioned to you yesterday. I want to warn you that you who are likely to glean the majority in the voting day and do what you intend to do, will not solve any governor or any other governor, but will change your names, and you know that your governor is employed by international financial institutions. This assembly will elect a governor, all opportunities are when the SRS has a majority and chooses a governor. By failing the agenda points proposed by the SRS, you showed political irrationality and reminded me of an event from the beginning of this century that took place in France. A desperate Parisian decided to kill himself by jumping off a soloist. Afterwards, some people from the 10th to the 15th floor swore that they had heard clearly before he fell to say it – so far everything is fine. I see you've figured this out. Thank you for listening to me seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u260	Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came out once again to try to convince you that it is only possible for you to withdraw this item of the agenda, but since it is clear to me that you will not do so, I will give you some more reasons which, of course, oppose your political motives to accept this proposal from the Serbian Radicals and, among other things, because the proposal itself opposes the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and for some other reasons. In fact, we held a debate here yesterday, speaking of Mr. Jelasic, we talked about him being a member of the political party G17. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia specify that it cannot be a functioner. We have received a very broad interpretation of his party's representatives that he is the president of the Economic Council, he is a member, but he is not a functioner, and there is no legal ban, and if Serbian citizens believe that, he will. Another thing we didn't get an answer for, which is still unclear, is his claim and recognition, even in the morning, on the Radio "Free Europe" and Radio "B92" I listened to Mr Jelasic, who says – yes, I am still employed at HVB Bank. It means neither the congregation debate nor what we're talking about here, what we're talking about, it doesn't mean anything. He's still a man employed at HVB Bank and waiting to be elected governor, and then he'll resign to the post and leave the post of deputy director of HVB Bank. I found one more thing here that I'm going to document for you, and it's done by an SRS parliamentary group, which is directly contrary to the law. In fact, Article 28 says who can't be elected governor, vice governor or member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Among other things, it is said that they cannot be those who control or co-operate with the National Bank of Serbia in its functions. I'll give you an experience, and you tell me after whether it's a good recommendation or not. "Belgrade 26.6.2002 (it was about the original document, i.e. a copy of the original document, I will deliver it to everyone interested), the Federal Deposit Insurance Agency, Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation; (In other words, believe it or not, this gentleman was also a member of the Management Board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Agency, Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation. ) Mrs. Vesni Djindjic; I am reporting for advertising for sale of vehicle banks in bankruptcy, under the code of the tender TV-01/02, I am interested in car branding Mercedes C200, registration mark BG-421072, year of production 1999, with an initial price of 885,000 dinars. The vehicle is owned by Yugoslavia's AD Belgrade in bankruptcy. My offer is one million and ten thousand dinars. In addition, I submit to you the bank's confirmation of the deposit of 10% of the estimated value of the car, as well as a copy of the ID card. » Name and last name Radovan Jelasic, they are personal data, I would not say that. It's his private business. Here's a copy of the documents, and here it is. The decision, which gives this vehicle to Mr Jelasic for the vehicle "mercedes C200" of the same license plate, at the estimated value of 885,000 dinars, was delivered by Radovan Jelasic, from Belgrade, that and that street, with so much money, millions and 10,000 dinars; the commission made the next decision – the vehicle "mercedes C200" is sold to Jelasic Radovan from Belgrade, that and that street. Let me ask you, dear friends, if it is possible and how it is possible for someone to participate in the bankruptcy of a particular bank, from the place of the vice governor participates directly in the bankruptcy of the "Yugobanke" a.d. Belgrade, forcing people on the street, people are left without a job, and then even through the agency, whose board member is personally interested in buying that Mercedes. If it's not a conflict of interest and if membership in HVB bank, not membership but a high function, it's not a conflict of interest, then it doesn't know what it is. Please, this is, therefore, directly opposed to Article 28 point 1. The law on the National Bank of Serbia and I ask you to accept all our arguments and our appeals, this item of the agenda, or you withdraw from the procedure, or if you don't want to, then on the day of the vote, you vote against such a proposal. Thank you very much. Otherwise, it would be the only honorable choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u262	The meeting of the Finance Committee is under way, and it is necessary to meet the Administrative Committee on the object of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in order to be able to complete the debate and conclude a single search, I shall determine before that, in accordance with Article 24. Rules of Procedure, break till 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. In the meantime, he was sitting with the Finance Committee. The report was forwarded to all MPs. Does the Committee's rapporteur want to speak? No, I don't. ) They singled out Mr Nenad Bogdanovic and Veroljub Arsic's opinions, do they want to address the Assembly? Here you go, Mr. Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u264	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no special opinion that it stands out when one of the proposed officials resigns or gives up any kind of candidacy. However, there is now one situation in which this congregation is located, which has been prompted by the haste to do some work as soon as possible and in all its work this session has been busy with some kind of improvisation that the current governor Kori Udovicki is being replaced as soon as possible, and put someone else in its place. It's the same with the governor's council. We first received a session of this assembly, which I was already talking about at yesterday's meeting, with the date of February 14th, then the Committee on Finance made some decision on February 17th that should be on the agenda calling for yesterday's announcement from Mr. Florist to give up his candidacy as a member of the National Bank of Serbia. At the meeting of the Committee, which is also the proposer of this agenda, we were not able to interpret the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, there are other committees for this, but I have singled out the opinion that I should nevertheless inform the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of the consequences of such a decision and resignation and of some sort of, to call, the findings of the Finance Committee, or the proposing for this item of the agenda, that someone resigned. The committee made a decision on members of the Council and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and proposed that decision to the National Assembly for adoption. Mr. Florist's resignation ceases to be a decision of the Finance Committee. If there is a decision, it ceases that there is a agenda that is proposed in this National Assembly meeting, that is, with this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I do not understand why, and especially the expert group, as they represent themselves here, insists on making its own man the governor of the National Bank of Serbia as soon as possible, while calling for a lot of moral right to do so because during the election, Kora Udovicki was stealing in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and as this can now be interpreted at this point? Just like one decision made by the terror majority, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, nor with the Law and itself, all those who insist on this decision are completely equal to those you accuse of stealing you from the vote for governor of the National Bank of Serbia. In principle, in the DSS, New Serbia and G17 I see a recycled DOS, which did not give up the manner in which they were present throughout the assembly. I think it's time for such a policy to finally end, because in the people, it's already known to be a whole saying that – DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u265	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for a decision, whether Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, chairman of the Finance Committee, wants a final statement under Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals of these decisions. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE RESOLVATION AND NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SELECTION COMMISSION AND OF THEIR EXCIPIENTS. You have received a motion for a decision, submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov, with amendments to the proposal for a decision since 18 and 19 February 2004. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with the order of the Members of Parliament. There's no sign-ins. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Dejan Mihajlov, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. This concludes a unique search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Dejan Mihajlov, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the third item of the agenda. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Republic Election Commission and their deputies. Before we move to the fourth item of the agenda, I am obliged to read to you the announcement sent to the National Assembly President: "We would like to inform you that the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, has appointed the National MP Milos Aligrudic, on the fourth item of the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Also, notification by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic. On the basis of Article 38(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that Bojan Pajtic, a member of the parliamentary group, has been authorised as representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, for 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic You have received a bill submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic on the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendments to be submitted until the opening of the search warrant will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there a proposal for a longer discussion? No, I don't. ) Since the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I will read you the schedule for each parliamentary group. Serbian Radical Party 1 hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia 1 hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus 40 minutes and 48 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement -- New Serbia 26 minutes and 24 seconds and the Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes and 24 seconds. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter, MP Dejan Mihajlov, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u266	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, this assembly has an obligation to try to sort out the situation we have in the institutions. We had until before these elections a congregation that was illegal because of all the things that happened with mandates, kidnappings, and all the things that were known and what was behind us. We had a National Bank that was built against the law and state that didn't have a president. Our country didn't have a president, because the three-majo elections didn't work out. They failed for the first time because the law hasn't changed and because it was a censorship that made it impossible for these elections to succeed in the second round, because it didn't come out 50%. Let me remind you that these are the September 2002 elections and the second round of the October 2002 elections. We had elections in December 2002 that failed even in the first round, as 50% of voters did not go to the polls. Between the two rounds, the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia was amended by removing the censorship only for the second round of presidential elections, while the census was detained for the first round. The third election, which we had last year, shortly after the vote was called for the Republika Srpska Assembly, failed because the census was not removed. He existed in the first round, but not in the second round. Since about 37% of voters went to the polls, these elections failed. This was caused by a highly irresponsible relationship between the then Assembly and the then government towards the institutions in Serbia, by playing with the institutions, the Parliament itself and the President of the Republic, by stalling the vote, by a law that allowed the president of the assembly to decide whether to call the elections. Natasa Micic abused it. Later, the Constitutional Court put the decision out of force, a member who said that the president of the assembly had the right to decide whether or not to call the elections, so it was decided that these elections would not be dissipated and that the official of the office, or the president of the assembly, was sitting there as long as he wanted to, until the election was announced and the whole assembly was disbanded. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the assembly, as it has set out to settle the situation in the National Bank of Serbia, should resolve the issue of elections for the president of Serbia, change laws and create conditions for Serbia to finally get the president. Serbia deserves to have a president, and according to the current constitution, in this relationship with the division of power, the president could, to a good extent, have been able to stop the former DOS government and the DOS government that destroyed the assembly, made it impossible for the president to choose and concentrate all authorities in the hands of the government. That's why it happened to us, and don't be surprised, that's how it's gonna be when Serbia or when some country doesn't have a president or Parliament, when only one of the branches of the government takes full control of the entire state. She's got a saying that says- "Government corrupts people," "absolute government corrupts absolutely." So the absolute power, which the former DOS had concentrated in the government, absolutely corrupts that power and absolutely destroys the state. Our intention is that this bill, which is compatible with the SRS bill, comes up with one solution that would allow the problem to be overcome, a legal gap that has not been defined by our Constitution, which is the failure of the presidential elections. The failed presidential elections - that category knows neither our Constitution nor our law, simply, in the Constitution there is no clear definition of how to get out. The DSS, and that's what I'm saying right now, will support an SRS bill that reduces censorship for the election of the president of the Republic in the first round. We proposed this in 2000, between the two rounds of presidential elections, to abolish the censorship for the election of the President of the Republic absolutely. So, as many citizens go to the polls, it's in the first round, and there's no second round. That's quite enough for the president of the state to be elected. So there's no censorship anymore and there's no other circle automatically. As many citizens go to the polls, it is that and the citizens themselves should be aware of their responsibilities. If they don't go to the polls, one they don't like and who they wouldn't possibly vote for to win that election. This is about the fact that we will support the radicals' proposal to lift the censorship in the first round and that we can win the president of Serbia in the next elections. That's absolutely not a question for the DSS. The DSS's bill resolves the question of how to get out of, let me say, one vengeful round of unsuccessful presidential elections. We have no solution to this problem with our constitution. The constitution neither in its Article 86 nor in its article 87 regulates the concept of unsuccessful presidential elections. It regulates the various types of termination of the term of office of the president, when it ceases within the appropriate time limit, means, after the end of five years and when its term of office ceases before the term of office, or before the term of office ends, but the Constitution does not know the category of unsuccessful presidential elections. He doesn't predict how to get out of that situation. With this bill, in our opinion, we are one-handedly supplementing or harmonising the law with the amendments proposed by the SRS, which is heading towards abolishing the censorship. We form the basis for the Serbian Parliament president to be obliged to call the presidential elections. So it was not left to him, as in the case of Natasa Micic, the possibility of making a decision, but he is obliged to call presidential elections. The president of the Serbian Parliament, according to our proposal, is obliged to call the presidential elections within 60 days of the entry into office of Serbian Parliament president. The provision reads this: "If the elections for the President of the Republic failed, the National Assembly president shall hold new elections within 60 days of the day when the failed elections are held. If the deadline of 60 days from the date on which the failed elections for the President of the Republic expires due to the end of the National Assembly's term, the new National Assembly president is required to call the elections for the President of the Republic within 60 days of his election." This deadline has already begun to run. After the adoption of this law, the president of the Assembly, and whether it will be an existing president or someone else, is obliged to hold elections within a deadline of less than 60 days. That deadline will surely be 30 days, given how long it will take to pass this law. So we will have the presidential elections within the time limit provided for by the Constitution and the amendments to the laws provided for by the SRS, which, once again, are fully acceptable to us. So after the presidential election, Serbia will certainly get a president elected by citizens, and there is no dilemma for us, and we believe it is the obligation of this assembly to contribute to the construction of institutions. The issue of adopting a new constitution is certainly a very important issue, which I sincerely believe this assembly will have an answer and will be able to adopt a new constitution and propose to the citizens to confirm it with a referendum. Until then, we do not feel that there is room for the issue of the president of the state, as our predecessors have done, to delay until a new constitution is adopted. It is therefore important to amend this Law on the election of the President of the Republic, so that one and the other laws be adopted, that all conditions be created to fill in the legal gaps that exist in the existing law and in the Constitution and thus enable Serbia to finally get the president in the new elections. Under the law, they would be called out very quickly, so that Serbia will finally get that institution that will lack it after the government's election, which will happen very quickly, which is the President of the Republic. This much for now, and I hope that through the debate we can come up with some common ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u267	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Justice and Administration Committee - Branislav Ristivojevic and the Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Vucic, and then Mr Aligrudic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will vote against the bill, not because some think we should be against anything the government or the newly established government or most suggest, but because we have firm, firm and clear arguments. In fact, this proposal is being carried out and seems to be something that is impossible, the Constitution is being corrected in a domain where the Constitution is completely clear. We in Serbia can only have constitutional status on the issue of the President of the Republic in two cases: firstly, to have the President of the Republic; secondly, to have elections for the President of the Republic. Articles 78 and 87. The Constitution of the Republic clearly defines it. So, where it is said, in the event of the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic, these elections must be held within 60 days of the day of the end of the term of office. There are no new 60 days left as discretion or authority for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is something that directly violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Why is that necessary and necessary? We'll try to look at it from two aspects. The first one's legal, and the second one's political. First, why it is necessary, we do not know, but by law and by the Constitution, elections for the President of the Republic had to be called. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Marsican, did not do exactly what we should, which is why we warned Natasa Micic, which is why the Constitutional Court warned Natasa Micic, although with a delay of several months or a year, but still brought an opinion and said she had to be appointed in that case by the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly. It is so clear that Dragan Marscanin had to call elections for the president of the Republic, because we do not have a president of the Republic. Why is he stalling and why is 60 more days being sought? That's where we at the SRS think it's purely political motivation. We believe that because it is clear today that Tomislav Nikolic represents the absolutely most popular politician in Serbia, and some new research, which has never been in favour of the SRS, as you know, and whose result you will get in a day or two, we have managed to get to them earlier, shows that this advantage is the greatest since the establishment of a multi-party system in Serbia. There has never been such a difference in popularity between Serbia's first-placed and second-placed political parties. Of course, the most convincing popularity has the SRS and the most popular leader, even according to estimates, without talking about votes, in votes it is incomparably the most popular politician currently in Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic. Since it is clear to everyone that Tomislav Nikolic would win an easy and convincing victory against a joint candidate of DB or so on. The DB, however you will, or all together to unite against Tomislav Nikolic, would not help you. Now you need it, so we think, a new 60 days to get something delayed and it might buy you some time. We don't know in whose interest, we don't know who, like something's gonna change. When I say that, as if something were going to change, I am also telling you because of the fact that even after the elections, after the convincing victory of the SRS, the trend in the popularity of Serbian radicals continues, as well as another significantly smaller political party, but significantly less. Trends of other parties are exactly the opposite: stagnation or decline in the next two months, in the next 60 days that trend will only be more pronounced and cannot be stopped within two months. It seems to me, to anyone who is seriously involved in politics, it is quite clear that it bothers us to wait not for your political motivation, but that it violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what's bothering us. We don't mind you accusing and attacking the Democratic Party for theft in the Assembly when there was theft in the Assembly. We don't mind that, but what you're doing in an anti-constitutional way, because you didn't ask for any other general act that we're going to condemn, which we're going to say will never happen again or I don't know what all about stealing in the congregation. We'd say no problem, it's okay, and then we'd go to a resolution and a choice of governors and vice governors. That's how this works. So, we have nothing against this bill, because it was proposed by the DSS and because it was explained by Dejan Mihajlov, but because we believe that it is directly opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is directly opposed to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and we believe that the elections for the President of the Republic have already been called. It had to be done by Dragan Marsican, and there was some kind of political agreement, so let's see that this proposal of Serbian radicals for the abolition of censorship is immediately accepted. That was promised by all the political parties, I think, in the election campaign, saying that their candidates will just win the largest number of votes. Let's adopt that and go straight to the presidential election, not to adopt that decision now, and then we don't have a presidential election again, but we're waiting for a new 60 days. In those 60 days, it may occur to someone to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Act on Amendments and Supplements, so we can extend that deadline to a new 90 or 120 days, or I don't know how many. Why do we need to go through this? We want the institutions of the site. Regardless of the fact that we received the largest number of votes and the largest number of MPs in the Serbian Parliament, we told you at that point – form, people, most in the Serbian Parliament, we don't mind. Do it any way you want, it doesn't matter if it's legitimate. No, but it's legal. Whatever majority of you form, she has the legality and we can't do anything about it until we hold the next election. We can criticise you about legitimacy, but there's nothing we can do. It is good to form institutions, it is good that we have formed a Serbian Parliament, that you are trying to form other institutions, but we also want to have a President of the Republic. According to our Constitution, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we have a buffalo executive power. So we do not only have the government as an executive authority, but also the President of the Republic, with significant restrictions and significant control functions, especially according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to some according to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's pretty well done that brake system and balance. Some once criticised the constitution and said it was a presidential or semi-presidential system. It's not. On the contrary, it was for some kind of political use or abuse. We think they're pretty well placed on those powers. Even in the SRS programme, and I'll tell you that when you ask, why not, you can see that we wouldn't have much to do with it, when a new constitution is brought in, or when a new constitution is brought in, that the president is elected in the Assembly. We are in favour of strengthening the most important body, the legislative body, that this legislative body has even greater powers towards other bodies, a greater control function and let the president be elected in parliament in such a way. It's not in the Constitution, we don't have a new constitution. We have an existing constitution, according to which we must act. We may like it, we may not like it. By the way, there are many criticisms of the existing constitution without knowing exactly what is being criticised; it seems to me that other than coat of arms, flags, anthem, national markings and stories of social property you will find some other serious objection. Regardless, even if we have a lot more objections, we have to stick to the existing constitution and we have to act in harmony with it. That is why the presidential elections must be called as soon as possible, the presidential elections have already had to be called. This is already a drastic violation of the constitution. I'm surprised the Constitutional Court isn't responding, but it's still more subtle. The President of the Constitutional Court, as he recently appeared in the prime information show of state television and the man is dead cold, you saw that, he said -- the government of the democratic bloc needs to be formed, it is the best solution for Serbia. Where can it, where is it, and how can the President of the Constitutional Court behave? Who gave him that right? How can he act, how can he think that he is expressing his private political views? That he's a member of the G17, which we care about, or that he's some other member of another political party, which we're interested in, he can't behave like that. We can't wait to see if anyone will say that this is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and whether the presidential elections had to be called; and they had to. At the end of this first part of my presentation, when we accept this reduction in censorship today, I urge you not to accept this bill, not to delay from those 60 days, to go to the presidential elections. Don't worry, it will be good for both Serbia and you, and for all of Serbia's citizens when Tomislav Nikolic, the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party, and we want to adopt it not because of the victory of Tomislav Nikolic -- will win on several occasions, just how many times he has the right under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then some other Serbian radical, don't worry -- but all of this will be in the interest of the Serbian citizens and the entire Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u269	Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u270	It's not good, you know, to lay down the reasons for a single bill for purely day-to-day political reasons. A team before such reasons or such an indication can be easily refuted. You said for a moment that our motives, meaning the promoter, could be to create a longer deadline within which presidential elections can be called, so as to avoid the evil fate of a good result of the SRS presidential candidate. In that argument, there is also a counterargument that those who seek to dissipate the election immediately, and have admitted that you have heard of some polls that you believe to be a potential candidate, then that reason may stand on your side. When we cross legal arguments against why we have given such a solution, such a proposal, then we can put aside these political arguments and deal with them in a separate discussion. What are the legal arguments? We will see the following situation, I fully agree, this will be the next item of the agenda when the law on amendments to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, is on the agenda. The bill is basically acceptable because it abolishes the famous censorship in the first election round and thus prevents future Serbian presidential elections from succeeding. It's a very important thing, and that is why I am openly telling you that the DSS will support this proposal to amend the Law on the President of the Republic. What appears here as a problem, and what appears to be a problem and in this bill submitted by the SRS, is that one key question has not been answered, and that is what has been happening to the failed presidential elections since 16 November 2003. There is, however, one amendment, which will later be spoken of by the SRS, he is trying to answer that question. However, we have submitted this proposal to the law, and we think that we are very right, since we have found that this question is not answered in the basic text of the SRS Bill. But that question must be answered for the following reasons. The election for the President of the Republic took place on 16 November 2003. Before that date, National Assembly President Natasa Micic stopped his term for disbanding parliament. After that, as the former president of the National Assembly, she could not take any action in accordance with the then applicable Article 5i of the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, i.e. She couldn't have decided to call the election within the time limit set there. She could not for one more reason, because in September 2003, a member of the 5th month before that, the Constitutional Court declared paragraph 3 unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has declared the unconstitutional position of Article 5 of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, and that decision is here with me. There is a detailed explanation why the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional, on the proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the position of Article 5i of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Unequivocally, I am not reading all of this, it is in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", 93/2003, states that it is only for one simple reason, because the provision envisioned one unusual and truly unconstitutional discretionary right of the National Assembly president, which is to decide within 60 days of the day of holding the failed elections whether or not to call elections for the president of the Republic. We have then interpreted this provision that it is not possible to interpret it this way, because by reading the Constitution we come to the conclusion that the Constitution does not even know the possibility of unsuccessful elections, on the other hand, does not know the possibility of such discretionary law of the President of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court has rightly declared an unconstitutional provision of Article 3. What happened next? We have held elections afterwards and we do not have in force a law on the election of the President of the Republic of a provision that answers the question of what happens in case of unsuccessful elections. Today, while we are having this debate, we do not have that provision, because what we have to give is the answer – what do we do, what do we change in the existing law to answer that question? Which the authority calls the elections, it is not controversial, it is the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is only disputed within what period and with which capacity of discretionary authority. What is very important here to point out, it is that Article 4a of the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic says that, from calling elections for the President of the Republic to their maintenance, it is necessary to spend at least 30 days and not less than 90 days. This implies that there is another discretionary authority of the president of the National Assembly, which is to determine the day when elections will be called and the day the elections will be held within the deadline of the given law and the Constitution. There are only two members in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia who are in principle dealing with the reasons for calling the elections. One of them's a member of 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The article discusses the regular termination of the term of office of the President of the Republic and says elections must be held no later than 30 days before the end of the term of office. When looking at this member and looking at Article 4a of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, which is nowhere to be disputed here, it is clear that the President has a discretionary right to call the elections before that deadline at a certain point in time, in a day which must fall before the 30th day from the date of the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic. You have the next position in that member, later on, which speaks of extending the term of office of the President of the Republic. The constitution doesn't say anything about this case, it doesn't predict any mechanism. You have a member of 87 who is a special provision, which speaks of a particular case, that is the termination of the term of office before due to the resignation or recall of the President of the Republic. And then the founder says that these are exceptional circumstances that don't take longer than 60 days to hold elections. It is not an denied discretionary right of the president of the National Assembly to decide, and in that case, the day when elections will be called and the day the elections will be held without breaking the deadline given to Article 87. The Constitution. Article 5i of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which was declared unconstitutional, i.e. his position 3, spoke of the President of the National Assembly, now going back to it, being able to make a decision within 60 days. The decision-making was unconstitutional in that whole attitude, and when something is declared unconstitutional, the whole attitude is declared, an unconstitutional part of the attitude or one word cannot be declared. So, what did we do? We've prescribed a 60-day deadline for calling elections, because it's a special basis unconfirmed by the Constitution, nowhere in the Constitution is mentioned. Then we said in the second position, that due to the extraordinary circumstances, due to the early parliamentary elections and because that 60-day deadline could not be held, it could not have happened for the reasons I described to you, then that deadline, naturally, because of the new assembly of parliament, must begin to run from the moment of the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a new assembly, and that is a complete and comprehensive explanation of this situation. If an objection were to be accepted that the elections had to be called immediately, the moment the speaker of parliament was elected, we would be in a situation where the president of the National Assembly would call elections per election census in the first round, because we would not be able to amend the Law on the election of MPs. On the other hand, if we happen to have this situation, then we would practically have to come back to the cycle of the viciosus of the election, which must be re-pronounced and repeated. It is precisely this proposal that is compatible with the SRS proposal and should therefore be accepted. If we deny the full discretion of the President of the Assembly, we come to another danger. That discretionary authority doesn't just exist. It is due to the fact that the elections, in a situation where they are scheduled for a multi-level period of time, could be brought into line, so that economics and rationality can take place in the same day. If the president of parliament were ordered here to have certain days to call the elections, then they would narrow down the maneuvering space to the president of the National Assembly and would practically not contribute to the development of the parliamentary spirit and democracy in Serbia and agreeing political subjects on the time and date of holding parliamentary, presidential or local elections. That is why I believe that this proposal has its basis, first and foremost, in the vast and uncontested, eclading legal void contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also has its basis in the need to fill the legal gap created by the declaration of non-constitutional attitudes of Article 3 of the 5i of the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have no choice here but to make the kind of decision we suggested. I'm asking you to think about it, and let's get the policy issues out of the way in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u271	Thank you. No more representatives of the parliamentary groups or presidents who answer for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, of a written application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party. I give my word to MP Milan Markovic from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In the meantime, get ready for Mr Ljubomir Kragovic from the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u272	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we now have two laws here. One is only with supplements, the other writes about changes. It doesn't matter, two amendments laws and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. What, I must admit, got me a little confused, that's the order in which they found themselves on the agenda. Namely, this law, which was passed ten days before this second one, is behind the second one on the agenda. Of course, the Rules of Procedure do not have any provision to determine which order the agenda will be drawn up, but it is clear from the very spirit of the Rules of Procedure, from some other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that the time of submission of the proposal should be respected, especially when these proposals relate to the same issue, as in this case today, before us, on the agenda. It would be petty to talk about that order now. I'm not talking about that order for exorcising macaques, but because we have two draft laws that, if they both adopted, would create some confusion. So if we were to adopt the DSS bill and then adopt the SRS bill, we would come to a legally impossible situation, or at least in a situation that someone would explain to us, what would apply. I'll tell you what it's about. So, if we adopt the DSS bill, it should be applied that the speaker of the assembly calls new elections within 60 days. If after that we also adopt the Serbian Radical Party's bill, it clearly states that the election for the president is being discussed the moment the conditions laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are created, that is Article. 86th and 87th, and normally, not to quote it, now we all know what the conditions are. In other words, if there is already an idea of the DSS to accept the SRS proposal, then it was really necessary, regardless of the party's council or I don't know what it is, to withdraw this proposal and simply save everyone the time, both for you and for us, and to just discuss the SRS proposal. There's another little illogicality there. Look, if we adopt the SRS proposal, the proposal that follows again after this proposal that we are now discussing is the question that has failed. Because how can we have a failed election if we don't have a censorship, then the elections even if a single voter came out? And the DSS proposal is now talking about a failed election. So we simply have a situation that we have two laws that, at the very least, are put on the agenda in the wrong order. If nothing else had to be put first radically, then the DSS proposal. As far as the DSS proposal itself is concerned, it is very rationally explained, it is clear that there was a legal gap at the moment when the Constitutional Court decided. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are executive. That provision concerning the Constitutional Court's decision is removed from the legal order. The matter is quite clear and from this aspect of the DSS proposal is acceptable for the Democratic Party MP club – Boris Tadic. There's a certain misunderstanding, and I just think that there's been some inaccuracies with the promoter himself, because I know a lot of people from the DSS, in Section 2. So you've submitted this position 2 as a consequence of some interpretation of you, the wrong one, about when the term of office ends and when the assembly disbands. I think you've mixed up these basic concepts of disbanding the Assembly and ending the term of office. It is not the same, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly speaks about it. This is Article 75(3) which clearly states when the term of office ends. The term of office shall cease by verifying the members of the new assembly, not by disbanding the Assembly, so that an objection to your draft law may be placed there. You did want to overcome this legal void, but surely you could have done it much more elegantly and more practically, perhaps in the way the SRS did it. But I said that this bill has our support, because in case the SRS bill doesn't go through, it's necessary to fill in this legal void. I don't think we'll have a problem interpreting the election within 60 days. We will also vote for this proposal, of course, because it is probably familiar to you – we will not vote to reduce the censorship, although we are in principle to reduce the censorship, but we are not to reduce the censorship in one separate way. We believe that such a question should also cover the issue of jurisdiction, as well as the question of impeachment, so a whole system when we talk about the President of the Republic. That's it. I would like the future work of the Assembly to take a little more care of economics, not to waste time in this way, simply respect someone's proposal, which practically completely consumes the proposal of the one who had the opportunity to put together the agenda the way he wanted it to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u273	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Ljubomir Kragovic. I'm sorry. There's a word for Dejan Michael as a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u274	Just a few things to explain. And I'm glad that this debate is really starting to look like one real debate about the case, not that it's all turning into a day-to-day political bickering. The fact is, and here with counterpart Markovic we could argue, that there is no member of the Constitution that defines the situation we now have, which is – the presidential elections failed. This is not regulated by Article 86, or by Article 87, which is mentioned here, which speak in the Serbian Constitution about presidential elections, or define them and do not have a category of failed presidential elections. The provision we have proposed, this bill, right now refers to the current situation and will once allow the elections to be discussed and Serbia to get the president. So, it will refer to this particular case of failed presidential elections and, of course, when the censorship is lifted, these failed elections will no longer be; just to get one citizen out of the elections, these elections will succeed. We're talking about the fact that we have to solve an existing situation, which is not defined by the current constitution, which is that we have had three rounds of failed presidential elections. The Constitutional Court, as Mr Aligrudic mentioned, has laid down a provision for a law defining that the president of the Assembly will decide when and whether to call the presidential elections out of force, and our provision concerns that the president of the Assembly must call elections within a certain time period, which began to run the day when Parliament Speaker Dragan Marsican was elected. So that day, that deadline started to run. He has to call the presidential election within 60 days. So much of our proposal with the SRS proposal is compatible, as their proposal does not regulate the category of failed presidential elections. Their proposal speaks of Articles 86 and 87. The Constitution, which regulates other ways of ending the term of office of the President of the Republic, but not the category of unsuccessful presidential elections. So we just added, proposed a law that solves the issue. The fact is that their law was passed earlier, but given that we have proposed agenda, we have foreseen this order of agenda points, especially what we consider and we have proposed at the beginning, which is not adopted, that it is economical about both laws at the same time, in order to shorten the debate, to bring together a debate on these two laws. Unfortunately, this is not accepted and we will have to discuss both laws, but in our humble opinion these laws do not exclude each other, but one law complements what others do not regulate and thus we get an adequate framework to solve the legal constitutional void, which is the issue of unsuccessful presidential elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u275	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let Nebojsa Bakarec be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment and addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia is one of the key legislative proposals, which is necessary to overcome the legal vacuum, the legal void, in order to elect a president in the next elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia and to finally establish the institution of the President of the Republic of Serbia. We know that Serbia has not had an institution of the President of the Republic since 29.12.2002, which is a legal and practical state that must be overcome. How to overcome the legal vacuum, the legal void, the possibility of legal interpretation of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and V.D. The president of the Republic of Serbia; the only way, based on law, law and constitution, is in the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the right, but also the obligation, to pass such a law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia, which will eliminate the legal void, to prevent the free interpretation of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which it is clear that it is the responsibility of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia to immediately call new presidential elections after the failed presidential elections. The practice of previous president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Natasa Micic, is an example of the classic abuse of the role of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the only thing that depended on whether new presidential elections will be called. Such an opportunity to interpret freely the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the will, the passion, the haughtiness, the violation of the Constitution and the law, the assessment of the need for the institution of the President of the Republic of Serbia, we must also avoid new amendments and additions to the law so that the law clearly sets out the obligation that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should have, and that is to call the elections and create the possibility for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to choose and choose the president. The bill must be so defined as not to put the Constitutional Court in a position to make decisions on the constitutionality or unconstitutional decisions of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On 18 September 2003, with a great delay, the Constitutional Court decided on the unconstitutional nature of the provision. that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not authorized to decide whether elections will be called or not, but must call the elections. So we have two states: either the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic. The elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia in the past two years, 2002 and 2003, were held three times and failed once. The question arises whether Serbia needs a president. It is clear that the answer – for all those who want to finally form all Serbian institutions, to rule over the rule of law and to create conditions for the better life of Serbian citizens through institutions. By rejecting this bill of law on the election of the president of the Republic and by accepting the SRS parliamentary club proposal, after the elections that must take place immediately after the law's entry into force, Serbia will get the president of the Republic, the institution of the president of the Republic headed by Serbian Radical Tomislav Nikolic. Serbian citizens want it, we are here to conduct and represent the interests of Serbian citizens, which is to discuss presidential elections, to give Serbian citizens opportunities to choose, and they will choose Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u277	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Bakarec, and let the MP Igor Mirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u278	The Democratic Party of Serbia made its full contribution to the institution in 2002, we give it and now, we always protect all institutions. So, no matter who wins the next presidential election, we make this contribution. We also gave in 2002, when we proposed these amendments and the additions of that law back then, and then the arrogant DOS, which in the remains today, did not accept, completely without reason, in October of that year, and the changes that would lead to the success of the presidential elections. Otherwise, to remind you -- in 2002, Vojislav Kostunica won the presidential election on two occasions, we were then saying that the president of Serbia was elected, because it came out in both circles of more than 52% of the citizens, which did not happen in these previous elections in 2003; 38% of the citizens came out. If it had been respected then in 2002, this factual state and victory in both circles, convincing and most convincing, would not have been the result of the new unfavorable events that followed -- many deaths, the state of emergency certainly, for which those who caused the crisis of the presidential institutions in 2002 were guilty. Hence, they did not pay much attention to it. Otherwise, Vojislav Kostunica would have won in November 2003 if he had decided to go to the elections, and it was convincing, only he had a hard time deciding, and when he did, he always wins. However, there was no need to participate in these elections, because there would be no such parliamentary elections today and there would be no this assembly, there would be no these changes and all that would follow positively when the government was formed. We proved our victory, we would prove it this time, with 12,000 evidence of the Supreme Court. There are no answers to certain questions today – why some parties will never have and do not have a candidate for president, reformist, most democratic, etc. why they do not have a candidate. They'll never have it. There are no answers to questions why some candidates, who insist on participating in the elections, can never win those elections? There's no answer to those questions. But there is an answer to the question why only Vojislav Kostunica will always win the presidential election, and the next if he decides, and on that path, there is time. There are answers to why it will happen and why it has always happened, if it decides. Because he's the only one who has the trust of the citizens, because only with the DSS is everybody wants to join the coalition government, about who thinks little, because we answer to everyone and because we chose to live as a humble people, not as angry as power. Even when we're in power, that's how we'll choose. We are the only medium and correct political path in the country of Serbia between two so-called antidotes, as they call themselves these days. They look more like octopus to me, which are hugged, black and yellow, so they don't know whether to love or fight, and they say, "He who fights is loved." It's a functioning opposition coalition, a few weeks here always voting the same and having some pure exhibitionist opportunism, they're against everything that's constructive. Here, we'll show at the next point that we're not fake opportunists and we'll vote for the SRS proposal, which we suggested two years ago. We are the DSS, and that is why we win the elections, and that is why Vojislav Kostunica, if he decides, will win, because we are governmental, moderate and acceptable and stable. We have also shown that in this assembly we want to build bridges with both the SRS and the SPS, and with the DS, and we will cooperate with everyone, because this is the only time that we all push Serbia forward together, not forward and back, etc. The DSS solves problems, we say, we're not vain opportunists, we show it next time, we protect all institutions, we protect the president's institution, and that's what's gonna show up. All honour to him who wins the next election, whether it be us or someone else. If we participate, we win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u279	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that Mr. Bakarec did not listen or is not informed that this bill is supported by the Democratic Party, and the SRS does not, that we do not vote, that we do not vote in the same way, Mr. Bakarec. It's interesting, I came out to answer, otherwise I wouldn't, I love it when you fire, I love it when you show a desire to increase Mr. Kostunica's popularity, that's a good thing. I don't know what's burning in you, there's nothing burning in me, the right to tell you, I feel perfectly normal, but I have to notice, Mr. Copper, that you mentioned and said - black and yellow. There are some who will probably speak for the yellow, and I ask what it means to you: black, what did you mean by that? I don't know about anyone else, seeing as how some of our political opponents loved it, I've never had a chance to ask them that, so tell me what that means - black. I know that where my father came from, they used to call black Ustashas, they mostly killed all our families, I don't know what other families you mean, and I don't know what that means to you, so I'd ask you to go out for this pay phone and tell us who the black ones are and explain to us, that we know what that's about, that we know who you mean and what you think. If you think we're black because we've always respected democratic procedure, because we've never come to power with violence, because we've never burned Parliament and state television, because we've never killed anyone at our political gatherings and mythins, if you think we're black because we beat you in democratic elections, even ten times less present in the media -- yes, but tell us that, Mr. Bakarec. I insist you do it, because it's nice to do something like that, one of the hardest or hardest possible qualifications to say, and then sit down and joke. This wasn't a joke. Whether or not there is any technical or non-technical coalition - it does not exist. As you can see, they vote for your proposal, we don't vote. You vote for our proposal, they don't vote. It seems to me that it's something that's completely logical and it's going to be repeated multiple times. I suppose it will happen that we in this assembly are voting for some of your proposals, and it will not be disputed, but it is a controversial way of treating political opponents, especially with the position of the ruling majority formed in the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u281	Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u282	I'll finish, Mr. Markovic. You know, now, in the manner of Natasha Micic, you've waited three minutes to warn me. No need, I'll be done in 50 seconds. So, you said you won because you form a government, and with someone else, referring to the Serbian Radical Party, some will not. Different divisions, Mr. Bakarec. Our victory is that we have convinced most of the citizens of Serbia or most of the citizens that we are the best, that we are the hope and the future of Serbia. It's true that we don't have the ability or the trade, or the involvement with everyone else like you, and we don't try, and we don't think we can compete with you on that matter. We freely accepted and said - it is legal what you do, you can do it, but be sure we will also fight in the next elections, which is why we will not have 82, but 132 mandates, and then you will see with which people and citizens of Serbia will. One more thing, and I end up with Mr. Markovic, if it is true that Mr. Kostunica will and can win, I convey the words of SRS Vice President Tomislav Nikolic, announce the decision, publish this law in the Official Messenger, and get it legal. At that moment, discuss the elections, let Vojislav Kostunica run, Tomislav Nikolic will beat him to the punch, whoever supported him and in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u283	The word is Mr. Pajtic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u284	The replica on the yellow one, we recognized each other in the yellow one. Mr. Copper, it's not enough to be horny to act strong. You can speak quite quietly if you are telling the truth. You said the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party would vote against anything constructive. If you find our vote unconstructive for your bill, and we will support your bill, I agree. Your bill of law falls into the water, since you will support the radical bill, and it implies abolishing the censorship. The second thing, it is absolutely incorrect to vote in the same way as the Serbian Radical Party. On this particular case you're talking about, you can see it -- because we're voting for your bill, we're not voting for a radical bill, you're just voting for a radical bill -- who's in the coalition here. So we have an open coalition, we have a closed coalition, and the Democratic Party is in neither. I apologize to Mr. Wolfich for this parallel. Don't talk about principle, Mr. Bakarec. Especially do not talk about principle when talking about institution v.d. President of the Republic, because if you want to be principled, by the Constitution Mr. Martian - if that is what you consider constitutional obligation v.d. The president of the Republic has to call the elections, and if you propose so in the law - in the first minute he became president of the Assembly he should have called the elections for the President of the Republic. When he did not call the elections for the President of the Republic, he agreed to a state of action and these days we are seeing Mr. Marscanin announce the call for parliamentary elections. If abuse is what Natasa Micic was doing, then abuse is what Dragan Marsican is doing today. He acts identically as Natasa Micic, and do not honor us with lessons about morality and consistency, because it is precisely these proposals and by voting for the Serbian Radical Party's proposal, which undermines your bill that you have fully proved who is principled and who is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u285	The word is Mr. Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u286	I didn't challenge the replica and, therefore, I have the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u287	Mr. Aligrudic was identified in Mr. Pajtic's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u288	In the part of Mr Pajtic's discussion when he was responding to the MP and when he mentioned what the content of today's search is today's debate, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic and when he spoke about the incompatibility of our proposal and the proposal for an SRS. I would ask Mr. Pitiæ to read both the bill well, and if he reads it correctly, he will realize that they are not incompatible and that they do not exclude each other. Simply, that's the whole truth and don't please, because you're in the heat of discussion and the need to replicate to someone, to make some arguments that don't stand here, about the content of this search.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u289	The word is Mr. Pajtic, according to the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u290	It is a member who refers to the giving of replicas to the MPs. Therefore, MPs shall be entitled to the replica if they are identified, i.e. explicitly or implicitly stated in the presentation of the predecessors. Please, Mr. Markovic, don't let the application of the Rules of Procedure be selective and that's my request. I'm not asking the Administrative Committee to declare this, but not to be selective and not to be dependent on who is with and when in the coalition. In a political sense, it can get a lot of revenge. Please don't give replicas unless there's a business basis for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u291	I apologize to everyone for being overly tolerated. First to Mr. Vukic, then to Mr. Aligrudić, but we are trying to make a constructive contribution to the work of this assembly. Please continue your work. The word is Mr Igor Mirovic, and let Dusan Petrovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, if we all look back on the past as Mr. Bakarec then in no way will we contribute to the country's institutions finally being built. In just one sentence, however, I will say that the initial responsibility of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica is very high, which has been the process of decommissioning all the institutions of this country since 2000. This agony is quite great and we today in a simple way, without major legal entanglements, we can resolve that agony. After all, almost all the political parties in the pre-election campaign promised to do everything to get Serbia to the institutions today, when we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, very simply, very elegantly, very clearly, we can contribute to the construction of that institution, we can create conditions for the election of the President of the Republic. We must lift the censorship for the election of the President of the Republic. It has been shown that citizens do not go out in enough numbers to vote for the President of the Republic that it is an obstacle for him to choose. We have to and we can prescribe the deadline immediately by law, which cannot depend on the current rating of political parties and their candidates, because according to the current mood and the political options offered by one or another candidate cannot be built by the institution. In this case, it's more than clear. The DSS must make its contribution there, and it does not make it, it does exactly the opposite, to some special legal channels it wants to further complicate this process, which is essentially very simple: we will abolish the censorship and, within a short time, immediately organise elections for the President of the Republic. I'd like to remind you, someone has just said that the process of change has begun in this country, but that's not true. On December 28th, most in this country's parliamentary elections, I believe, voted for changes. For two months now, the agony of all institutions, not only of the President of the Republic, has lasted from 2000 to today, as neither former President of the Republic Milan Milutinovic has essentially performed his duty, but only formally. Today, there is agony when it comes to the choice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, probably because of the excessive jag of functions. Today, it is agony when it comes to the choice of governors, and it is an important institution, again because of the politicisation of the issue and the influence of politics, which is the opposite of the Law on the choice of governors. Today, there is agony when it comes to the Supreme and Constitutional Court; and these two institutions are too politicised. Their presidents perform from some political positions, not taking care of the integrity of these courts, not taking care of the function they perform. It is time for such a way of working simply to stop, that all political parties, and in this SRS gives the most significant contribution, in a very responsible, clear way, to citizens, do everything we can to start building these institutions. Without any unnecessary legal constraints, without infractions, immediately and now changing the law, abolishing the censorship and calling presidential elections. No one should be afraid of calling presidential elections, especially those who lose in the election. The election will certainly win Tomislav Nikolic and he will be the best president Serbia has ever had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u293	Thank you. Mr. Dusan Petrovic, please. Let Nemanja Sarovic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u294	Mr. Vice-President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the bill before us because the Constitutional Court's decision, which has put aside a corresponding member of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, has provoked the need to find an appropriate solution. I think it's a very important context in which such a bill has followed, and given the proposal. The DSS, if I'm not mistaken, has insisted for at least two years that the censorship be lifted, both in the first and second rounds of elections for the President of the Republic. It seems quite amazing that such a provision is not an integral part of this bill. We have been given an explanation of what this is about, because the SRS has submitted a proposal for such content. What's the political essence here? We've heard that the DSS has incredible coalition capacity and, of course, we're all witnesses of such capacity together. Slobodan Milosevic, with his votes and MPs, will support a government that is likely to form Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS if no trades do not occur. Such a bill can only be explained by a telepathic link between Vojislav Kostunica and the SRS. If they have proposed laws that are truly compatible at the same time, I cannot explain in any other way the content of one and the other bill. For all those who will make political alliances, open and telepathic with Vojislav Kostunica, I just want to remind you of the experience of the Democratic Party. Vojislava Kostunica we raised to heavenly heights in October 2000 and, of course, all those who were in the DSS in August 2000; few of our friends, we had sympathy for them, dishonest, and then they were dishonest, as they are now. Now, when I remember how we brought Mr. Kostunica to the balcony of the City Assembly on October 5th, I want to share that memory with these telepathic and factual coalition partners and simply warn you of what awaits you in political co-operation with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u295	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Mihaylov; I've seen you, Mr. Obradich. As a proprietor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u296	I can say that we never loved you too much and that at one point we saw you as a minor evil, until it was found that you were a very great evil for the state and that you had ruined the state. It's like growing a goo in the mud. We brought you to this congregation. Remember the 2000 election, how you cried not to go to the elections alone, you begged us because you hid behind Vojislav Kostunica's back. Let me just tell you something, let's remember the election of 2000 to the Federal Assembly and compare two lists that were: one for the Greater Republic and one for the Greater Citizens. One list was carried by Vojislav Kostunica and the other by Zoran Djindjic. That list, led by Zoran Djindjic, received 10% less votes. Even then, you haven't been able to fool many citizens of Serbia, some of them didn't believe you at the time. We, unfortunately, have been with you in the coalition for a short time, but in time, we have seen what you are prepared to do to preserve yourself in power and to avoid it. So Branislav Ivkovic held power and chose Dragoljub Micunovic as president of the National Assembly and then you did not mind that the Honorary President of his party Slobodan Milosevic is sitting in The Hague. You didn't mind when you chose Kori Udovicski by the votes of Banet Ivković, when you passed the Lustration Act; you probably don't like it. When you passed many other laws in this assembly, then Slobodan Milosevic did not bother you. When you made secret deals with Banet Ivkovic, when you organized congresses for him, when you funded his party, then Bane Ivkovic didn't bother you...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u297	Please, Mr. Michael, speak as a proprietor, not a replica. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u298	I would only ask that comparisons be avoided that may be offensive to Dragan Marsicanin, which is a comparison with Natasa Micic. Natasa Micic is a woman who has repeatedly violated the Constitution. She hasn't called the election, she's imposed a state of emergency as a war, it's against the Constitution and everything else she's done. All such comparisons are simply not suitable for this Serbian Parliament. It is not an arbitrary assessment, it is the Constitutional Court's decision, according to her, Natasha Micic was against the constitution. So let's avoid that kind of comparison, we can compare some other things, but that kind of comparison we really can't do, because in that case we would be very offended by all of us sitting here in the hall and not agreeing with what she was doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u299	Please, Mr. Obradovic, a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u300	Fellow MPs, I would ask my DSS colleagues to finally stop building their political image on Slobodan Milosevic (forgive me, the lapus, from the Democratic Party, they will understand). Slobodan Milosevic was used while the opposition was creating political points. Slobodan Milosevic was used when they were in power: kidnapped him and extradited him to The Hague. The only question left is who got the $5 million, and we'll figure that out when the new government gets to work, so we'll see who got that commission money. Now, at the time of the Democratic Party's election campaign and its assembly held Sunday, their strongest arguments are Slobodan Milosevic and Slobodan Milosevic. When your mouth is full of Slobodan Milosevic, then you should say that, thanks to the fake parliamentary group, stealing five mandates, forming a parliamentary group of fake Socialists, you have extended your political life for a year and a half, because, watch out, Slobodan Milosevic was also their honorary president. None of you have found it appropriate to say one word of criticism about it. Thanks to them, you adopted the 2003 budget, and thanks to them, we got V.D. The president of the Republic on the Constitutional Commission, with those two votes, who then introduced the emergency state against the constitution and arrested 13,000 people. Thanks to him, you stole votes during the Lustration Act. Thanks to him and Kori Udovici was falsely voted. At the time, you did not mind Slobodan Milosevic, and now you are racing and muddying the name of the man and the party. Be honest and admit to yourself, if you have no other arguments to win your election race in the party, then something is wrong with the quality you possess, both as a party and otherwise, and stop using the SPS and mention it in that context.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u301	We can continue the discussion. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, and be prepared Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to us by the DSS, came in response to their decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia that an unconstitutional legal provision under which the president of the National Assembly was authorised to consider whether the elections would be called. This late decision, because I will remind you that the decision was taken two days after the vote was called, when it was certainly no longer of any weight, would not have been necessary for you to listen to representatives of the SRS when this law was passed, who warned you not to give such powers into the hands of Natasa Micic, because it was already clear that they would be abused. Today, in the place of Natasa Micic, Dragan Marsican is sitting, but as it used to say on a Belgrade facade -- it's all the same, only he's gone. However, in this case it is about her, but there is certainly no principle of difference between Natasa Micic and Dragan Marsicanin. She didn't call the election, he doesn't call the election. They share the reason why these elections are not being debated. It is certainly a fear of failure in the election, which is guaranteed to them. Perhaps Dragan Marsican does not wear purses that were characterized by Natasa Micic, or at least he does not do so publicly, but there are no fundamental differences between the two. This time the justification is a legal void, according to the Proposer.... (President: sir, I still ask you to stick to the subject. )......................................................................................................... created by a decision of the Constitutional Court, as they now say neither the Constitution nor the law determine exactly what time the new elections must be called. I guess that's why we don't have to have elections for the President of the Republic anymore. But the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says - either we have a president or we have elections for the President of the Republic. But Serbia has not had a president in 14 months. No constitution in the world, or even in those developed Western democracies, which you are so pleased to call upon when it suits you, provides for a detailed procedure for the election of the President of the Republic. Of course, that doesn't even make our constitution. The question is why are we the only country that can't pick a president for 14 months? That's certainly because those who have a mouth full of democracy, legalism, refuse to discuss these choices. After all, if the achievements of developed Western democracies were respected, the president of this house today would be Gordana Pop-Lazic of the SRS, so she would teach you from day to day how to manage the National Assembly in a democratic way. The elections for the President of the Republic would have been called long ago, and today there would be laws on the agenda that are vital to the citizens of Serbia. As far as the law proposed by the DSS is concerned, not so much because of the congregation's majority that doesn't pay attention anyway to what most speakers here say, as for Serbian citizens who are looking at this, on a specific case, I will explain what it looks like when the DSS chooses the president by emergency procedure. First, the president of the assembly has 60 days to consider when the elections will be called. Since we know very well what this newly formed ruling coalition is, what their individual appetites are, the 60-day deadline is extremely long. If, in the meantime, a ministerial post or a place on a well-paid committee makes a fight and new parliamentary elections are called, which may be scheduled for 90 days from the day of the call, then a new 30-day deadline for the establishment of the new parliament, then the new National Assembly president has 60 days to reconsider when he will call the elections for the President of the Republic, to which a further 90-day deadline should be added. When all these deadlines are added together, it turns out that if we accept the model offered by the DSS for the election of the President of the Republic, it might take 330 days. We're wondering what would have happened if the law hadn't gone by the emergency procedure and the DSS gentlemen weren't in a hurry. Would you choose a nice and smart kid in a kindergarten, and then maybe everyone would wait for a senior year together to make him president? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you, instead of voting for the proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia for the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party, which in a comprehensive manner regulates the matter of the election of the President of the Republic and who does not know the category of failed elections, under which the president of the National Assembly will be obliged to call elections for 30 days at the latest from the day of the law's entry into force. I hope you learned some lessons from the fate of those who previously played with the will of the people and refused to question the elections, even when it was clear that the people wanted the elections. So I urge you not to hide behind legal gaps, but to call elections today, so if you do, maybe Tomislav Nikolic will not beat your candidate with a difference of 400-500,000 votes, but if you disobey that obligation, our victory in the elections, which will eventually have to be held, will certainly be even more convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u303	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. As a representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Aligrudic. Let Peter Cvetkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u304	Do not compare Mr Dragan Marsican and Mrs Natasa Micic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's no similarity in that sense. When we talk about the matter you were talking about, see one very important difference – Mr Dragan Marsicanin, by law and because of this de facto legal void we talked about, he couldn't, nor had he had the opportunity to call any presidential elections at any time, and Natasa Micic could call those elections whenever she wanted. In the opening statement, I was talking about the fact that Mrs. Micic did not call the elections because she was in due course interpreting the provision of article 3 of Article 5 of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. That's the difference, and don't, please, press that so-called. The similarity between Natasa Micic and Dragan Marsicanin, who de facto does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u305	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic. The following is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a lot of heat about two draft laws that are compatible, a lot of heat and a lot of political speeches, which are unnecessary at the moment. I will be free to estimate that this is precisely the insistence of individual MPs to highlight the alleged needs, to highlight the identity of people who are impossible to compare, the desire to use this pay phone for a political campaign, i.e., I would say, one already seen pre-election campaign. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law given by the SRS is in line, not incompatible, or incompatible with the proposal to supplement the Bill on the election of the President, which was given by the DSS. Mr Aligrudic pointed out the Constitutional Court's decision, as well as the provisions of the Law on the Election of Presidents and Provisions of the Constitution, which is why it was necessary and necessary to follow this intervention of the DSS and to make a proposal to supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Therefore, this problem should be viewed as fundamentally the insistence of the DSS to remove a legal problem, a legal gap, in an adequate manner, without new violations of the Constitution. As you heard and as it stands, at the time of the entry into office of the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr Dragan Marsican was not able to immediately call the elections for the President of the Republic, with reference to the Constitutional Court's decision. And even if he had called, if he had called the presidential election against the constitution in that case, it would have been just elections in a series of elections that failed. First, there is no rationality, there is no economics, because it would have to call elections under the existing law, where censorship is sought, which means, with a certain likelihood, the elections would have failed again, there would have been a new unnecessary, I would say harmful, spending money from the budget. It would continue with an institution decommissioning policy, which the previous Republic government has consistently conducted all three years of its mandate and will achieve nothing, but would even have the possibility of not having anyone to call new parliamentary elections if necessary. These are all hypothetical assumptions. As a result, and because of all these opportunities that could arise, we, the DSS, even though we proposed last year and before last year, insisted and made proposals and amendments to abolish the censorship for the election of the President of the Republic, which, normally or abnormally, did not come across the support of the Republic government and the supposed majority of DOS. So, due to this behaviour of the acting president of the Republic, avoiding the election call, we have just come to this situation which is an increasingly unfair situation, which can only be avoided by amending the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic. It is definitely and finally necessary for this state to have the president of the Republic, to be elected in democratic elections, which will exercise its constitutional powers. It is definitely necessary, and it is high time that, according to the Constitution, we are also witnessing that in recent years, a part of the government has been trying to manage and practically control other forms of government; I am thinking predominantly of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of Parliament, which was a tool in the hands of the Republic government. All those who were in this parliament, who followed the work of parliament in the previous meeting, it was very easy to see that the decision, that decision-making was taken from the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that decisions were made elsewhere, that the laws and laws were adopted elsewhere, and that in most cases they could not have been adopted here in parliament of the Republic of Serbia in the majority of cases by the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and democratic way, that various ways of remote voting or support of completely illegal MPs were invented in this place, I would say to the groups of citizens, who were here at one point, made decisions and voted in this parliament. I hope I won't make a mistake, at some point, according to reports, although it was difficult to determine, there were about 305 or 306 MPs in this House. It's possible I was wrong about the number. So, in such a situation, decisions have been made, and in such a situation, besides this Parliament, the very institution of the President of the Republic is also. At this point, I've limited myself to these two institutions, and this behavior would be completely deliberate and calculated to degrade these institutions. To all those who demand and who say the elections should have been called at the time of entry into office of Parliament President Dragan Marsicanin, I briefly answer and repeat that the elections should be called under the old law, with censorship, so that this would mean new failed elections to a number of failed elections and that nothing would be achieved, but the state would be brought to even greater problems, an even bigger legal situation, without outcome. Therefore, I cannot understand the refusal of some to accept the proposal to supplement the law on the election of the president given by the DSS, demanding that it be necessary to call new elections immediately after the failed elections. That means -- yesterday's failed elections, today's new elections. In addition, there is an argument made by Mr Aligrudic that we are taking away the right of the President of the Assembly, or we are putting him in a position not to have a discretionary right to appreciate at what point, given the objective circumstances, when elections are on other levels, for example. Parliamentary, comprehensive holding (date) of the election. Thus, the president of the Assembly would be an authority that practically decides nothing, and in practice this could mean that it does not need to determine the day of the re-election, because automation could be applied. Which means – failed elections under the law; they must immediately have new elections, that day and that day, within that and that time. So there's no need to make a decision about calling the election. This addition of the law by the DSS is exactly the situation in which we are currently seeking to change, and I hope, as the DSS party, that we will no longer be in such an irresponsible situation, that we will not have a outgoing government, that in this situation the state will no longer come, and therefore this supplement could, in close interpretation, be considered the only addition to getting out of this current, illegal and anti-constitutional state. In all other cases, the application of this provision, i.e. the application of the Act supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, could not come except in theory, and it is difficult to expect that such an irresponsible government, like this former, will come again in a short time. I therefore appeal to the Radical Party - which has put forward the Amendments and Supplements Act - the proposal for their law is exactly what the DSS has proposed in recent years - to accept this proposal for the addition of the law given by the DSS, because this is why one anti-constitutional and irregular situation comes down to legal behaviour. This will create the possibility, through the adoption of these two draft laws, that the President of the Republic Assembly will immediately call the elections, which will be carried out under the new adopted laws, that is, after amendments, and thus we will get, normally, in the democratic elections of the President of the Republic and bring the institution of the President of the Republic in a position to exercise its constitutional powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u307	Thank you. I give my word to Miss Natasha... Excuse me. According to the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, Mr. Pitiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u308	I'm calling for a violation of article 82. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the electronic determination of the quorum. In the eighth row, where the G17 Plus MPs sit, it seems to me that Miss Karanovic, and next to her, is another card, means directly falsifying the quorum for working on this session, so I ask that it be determined on the basis of Article 82. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u309	Please, Mr. Pititice, thank you. Your competence is beyond doubt, indeed. Please, let's find the quorum. I ask all MPs to place their cards. Please, I'm setting a 15-minute break to collect the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum to continue the work. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We are continuing to discuss the fourth item of the agenda. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u311	Mr. Chairman, be kind enough to direct your fellow Members from your parliamentary group not to earn, to look at what is going on in the MPs' units and bring them to order in the future to secure the quorum more zealously, if you intend to rule Serbia, which I do not believe, as well as the entire Serbian people who do not trust you. Otherwise, as for this item of the agenda, I will continue what fellow SRS MPs spoke about, and as regards the proposal that came from the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Mihajlov signed, dated 14 February this year. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is the SRS, which will be discussed under point 5, has proposed an amendment to the Law on the election of the President of the Republic ten days earlier, so on February 4th. Although we are in an extraordinary session, Mr. Martian - along with all those proposals that we have submitted to the National Assembly, we believe that these are the burning topics that we need to discuss, and above all, to change the Law on Privatisation and many other proposals - should be considered that some elemental logic tells him that the point proposed by the SRS is first on the agenda, and then the DSS. Thus, some who have exercised power unconstitutionally and illegally in Serbia would not be researched and alluded to that Kostunica has some telepathic ties with us. No, that's not true at all, because you see, according to the SRS proposal itself, and which is only possible to overcome this institutional crisis, and as far as the institutions of the President of the Republic are concerned, Dejan Mihajlov has always followed it in a radical way, after ten days, he later gave his project, or his MP groups, which is absolutely unacceptable to us. He's unacceptable because it turns out that we Serbian radicals were right. In those years of DOS rule and all that time of behaviour of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica through the creation of a bribe that those adherents of the Constitution, the law, the legislators, had come to the conclusion that the masks had fallen, that the policy had been crackled, as has been shown by the number of votes they had won in the elections, that I was not talking about these other DOS parties. It turns out that the Serbian Radical Party, as the strongest party today in Serbia, has since the beginning advocated that the institutions of the system, the construction of the rule of law and the democratic society talk if possible through the agreement of all relevant political parties, and we have considered it the most normal thing to discuss with Mrs Pop-Lazic, the law on the election of the President of the Republic and the Law on the selection of MPs, above all, with the strongest political party, because the people have shown us the greatest confidence. This is how you stand out on your own, you get the open support of your former, future, already who knows which coalition partners from the Democratic Party who said they would vote for this and thus made it clear that you want this crisis to be overcome by one such ad hoc law. On the other hand, at the meeting of the Assembly Committees, when it came to the law proposed by the Serbian Radical Party, in an initiative clearly required to specify when Dragan Marsican will call the necessary elections for the President of the Republic, you went out, and today he also spoke about it by an authorised representative of the motionor and himself, with the claim that this is unconstitutional. As constitutionally this is what you stand for, and whenever you have nothing to say to a Serbian radical party, you, who have kept silent in all the ways you have so far violated the Constitution and the law or, from the end, observe it, say it—it is not in accordance with the Constitution. If we're going to work things out, if we're going to build a modern and democratic society, then you need to think hard about voting day and accept the SRS proposal, for the simple reason that he will, and in the best possible way, desecrate the possible intentions of Dragan Marsican to remain as acting president of the Republic, who knows what time. So we get the Caliph, instead of Natasha Micic now the Martian in the men's suit; then let Dragan Marsican as v.d. The President of the Republic is an equal member of the Supreme Defence Council, you will allow him to continue to behave in such a way, although you know very well that since 16 January last year we do not have a President of the Republic, and that it is terrible, and that the SRS has kept warning. And you know very well that the DOS candidate, because your President Vojislav Kostunica should not have come out on the line, and he must not have beaten Tomislav Nikolic to his feet now. Be patient, I haven't finished my exposure yet. You'll be entitled to a replica eventually, if the chairman permits you. So, in order to demascate such a role and politics of Kostunica and the Democratic Party of Serbia itself, now that they have come to some part of the government, it turns out that it is on thin and glassy feet, because you see, after a few days of Parliament functioning, you are not able to provide the quorum regularly. Then how do you think you rule, how do you think you're expanding that coalition of yours and you're locking up that government, and you've announced it for the next week. We now have a situation that is only in such a way that can be overcome and that we immediately go and end this, to choose Serbia as a sincere and honorable patriot for the president of the Republic, the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party, because you yourself know it is impossible for Vojislav Kostunica to be a double personality. If you found your support in some minority group to put together a government next week, you know yourself that he can't be, if you already want to be Prime Minister, President of the Republic. If you wanted to do so, you would have no chance against the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party, and all to find out who, you and the former DOS parties, is pointless, because in this situation of general poverty, misery, poverty, lack of respect for the Constitution, disrespect for the law, without a built democratic society, the only way out of Serbia's citizens, and because of your behaviour in the past two months, they see in the Serbian Radical Party. And be sure that from now on and to the future, they will vote for us to the greatest extent possible, because we are ready to provide them with a better life. Our candidate for president of Serbia, who won the presidential elections held last fall, unlike your president and the DOS candidate, did not behave outside the constitution and outside the law. He promised only what the president of the Republic had the right and what he as Tomislav Nikolic, as a representative of the majority part of the Serbian people, could do. In this way he will not only cheer up all Serbian patriots and patriots, and our duke, Professor Vojislav Seselj, but Serbia will have the president it deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u312	Replica Dragan Marsican, and then Milos Aligrudic as a proposing representative. A fascinating resemblance between the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party as opposition parties in this parliament. They are identical in the following (I will not offend, I will only give facts): as they break the laws, break the Constitution, constantly, daily; those who advocate the respect of the Constitution and the law, they misjudge, they call them legalists. That's the difference between us and you and each other. We were who we were when we were in power for six months and when we were opposition, we'd still apply today when we're in power. Then I tell you, remember if you can, while I am in this position as president of the National Assembly, I will not violate the laws and will not violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Forget the story about Natasha Micic, because it has nothing to do with us. We're just the opposite. There will be no life-long illegal duties of the President of the Republic, but whoever is president of this assembly and acting as President of the Republic -- if I am within that time, and if I don't think I can say that for whoever comes to this place afterwards -- will call the presidential elections, don't worry, in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u314	Mr. Aligrudic came forward as a proposer, then Mr. Mihajlov as president, then Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u315	Since we have clarified who has the right to reply, the previous speaker, therefore not a replicant but a previous speaker, has voiced the view that the Democratic Party of Serbia did not pay attention to constitutionality and legality and did not speak of it earlier. If anyone in this House talked about the violation of the Constitution and the law, the Democratic Party of Serbia said and all that Mr. Marsican said for a moment there was no reason to repeat it, but one thing is malignory in what you said. You spoke of the intentions of members of the Democratic Party of Serbia and members of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Marsican, that he wants to usurp his authority and position. There's no reason for that. We were talking about the bill, that there is a gap and one pocket, a legal pocket, in which we cannot and at this point do not have a legal provision based on which anyone can call the elections for the President of the Republic, because there is no way they will be called if the elections are held and they have failed. Is that true? Yes, it's true. It is also true that you have submitted your legislative proposal earlier, ten days before ours, and it is true that in this legislative proposal we have seen a huge deficit, and that you have submitted an amendment to your legislative proposal only when you saw that we have submitted our legal proposal seeking this amendment to the law, and then you realized that it is necessary to submit your amendment. That's the living truth, and that's true. So whatever you wanted and thought about it, this discussion of yours is falling into the water, because it's just plain clear what you wanted to do with it. So, you didn't want to discuss the bill and to talk about its validity and invalidity, its (not) not according to the Constitution, but you had your political discussion that should strengthen you, I guess, at the positions of the opposition party in parliament in God's power. You're not thinking about the foundation of our proposal, but you have your own, the same story you've been spinning all along, for which you're using the right to discuss. It's not fair and it's not correct. So we have made very valid and important arguments why we have made this proposal and we are trying to close the legal gap in one way at this time. PRESIDENT (Dear Martian): Replica Dejana Mihajlova at the exhibition of Natasha Jovanovic, then the replica of Mr. Vukic to my presentation, then Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u316	Dear People's MPs, if we followed the bill of the Serbian Radical Party's elections in Serbia, we would never have called to follow what is right here. They are calling for article 86 and Article 87, where no failed elections are mentioned at any time. It is only said that when the term of office expires over a period of five years, then elections are discussed 30 days before the deadline of five years, and that was 14 months ago. So that basis has completely fallen off and this provision of that law is completely pointless. The second provision of this law is when the term of office is terminated before the end of time. Has the term of office been suspended before the time has elapsed? Of course not, because 14 months ago, it's been five years. So that other provision is pointless. According to your bill, gentlemen of the radicals, we would never call the presidential elections in Serbia, because it is in your bill of law and these provisions are completely pointless. If you say the elections first thing tomorrow, we'd have a censorship and we wouldn't have a president of Serbia again. Once you decide what you want: do you want to have an election tomorrow with a 50% census so they don't succeed, or do you want to take down the censorship and have choices that will work. Say what you want once. If you want the election tomorrow, then we have a 50% censorship, but you're holding a responsibility that your choices won't work and you're aware of that. Don't constantly deceive the citizens. One more thing, at this point, if you're saying that you're the party that got the most votes, it is, but you're the party that lost the most. You got the most votes, you say you won, and you don't have the president of the assembly, you won't be in the government, the presidential election didn't work out, so you won again. You guys win all the time, and then you lose. Those who vote for you cast those votes because there's nothing they can do about it. Serbian citizens who want real changes in Serbia, who want discontinuity with that authority, one and the other, will now vote for this minority government and for the bloc that will form and form the government. Because it's a block of people out of one system and another, and the one before and this one now, that came from the same chain. That is why Serbian citizens will recognise in the DSS and its coalition partners who will participate in the government, I speak to who will participate in the government, they will recognise those who are willing to do so. I sincerely believe that in the presidential elections, which will be announced by the president of the Serbian Parliament within the deadlines set by the Constitution and the laws, within 60 days of the entry into office... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... finishing... Which means there's more than a month left to beat the candidate of the democratic option. It's only good, because it's the only way for Serbian citizens to keep their voice, use it wisely for their future.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u317	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard more insults at the expense of the MPs of the SRS, and then at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. We first heard from Mr. Marsican, who must have tried again with his lucid exposure to say that everyone except him and his political like-minded are stupid, so they can't understand what he's explaining. It's not the first time we've learned that from Mr. Marsican, but it's not worth it, because the citizens of Serbia have otherwise assessed both intelligence and intelligence, and knowledge, and education of both him and his political opponents. As for Mr. Michael and the stories of whom it is worth voting for, and for whom not, Mr. Mihajlov, it is not the use of votes that you will form a government and that you will not allow someone to get the president of the Assembly, even though the citizens of Serbia wanted it; it is not the use of votes that you enter power with those who, after such a formation of the bloc or mother, will not vote. It's not exploitation, it's abuse of the citizens of Serbia's voices. That is why the citizens of Serbia will punish you very quickly, and the citizens of Serbia know very well who they voted for and who they gave their trust in. We're not impatient. We will not force Gordana Pop-Lazic to be president of the assembly, nor force to enter the government, nor unprincipled. After all, Mr. Mihajlov, you have called us to the government, concentrated, but we are thanks to the principles and the desire not to enter into the fleshy power, not to enter power with those with whom you enter, refused, Mr. Michael, because we will not cheat and lie to the citizens of Serbia, because we will not break Mr. Michael's election promises. Because, Mr. Michael, we keep our word. It's a word for us. What you're saying is that you've received support for the government and that it's going to be your government, so you, Mr. Michael, say here that you have the support of citizens for the minority government, you yourself admit that it's a minority government and that the citizens have not voted for it, that the people of Serbia have not voted for it, Mr. Michael. Come out, Mr. Michael, with that list of these five parties, you show up, DSS, G17, SPO, NS, SPS, all of you together, and twice as many votes we give you, we'll beat you in the election. (President: Time. ) Let me tell you something else about the professional work about Mr. Aligrudić, so I don't say two things, not to go out twice in replica. So, I'll be allowed by Mr. Martian. It's not true, Mr. Aligrudic, nor does Mr. Michaelo, that there will be no and there will be no elections. It would be, and it would be right now. They would be there right away, because the Constitution is the most general legal act. As the Constitution does not stipulate how long it takes you to inform yourself and arrange for the government to form, the situation of successful or unsuccessful elections cannot be predicted in the Constitution, but rather speaks when the term of office ends for the President of the Republic of Serbia; when there is no President of the Republic of Serbia, elections are being debated. There are only two constitutional states: either we have the President of the Republic or we have elections for the President of the Republic. You are all doing this so that there will be no choice for the President of the Republic, because you know how your godless democratic candidate will pass, he will be beaten to death by Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u319	If we have more replicas, then at least let's make a decision, because there are more speakers after you. I'm not the one you mentioned I was, so let me cut, because I don't like Mr. Pajtic, so let me say, it's 18.01 hours now, no, but I'll give him my word, but I'll give it to Mr. Dacic afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u320	Dear Chairman, I don't think it's about who likes who in this congregation, but we just have to have respect for each other. The DS said very clearly by refusing a project by a concentration government that it does not want to co-operate politically in the future government or with the SRS, or with the SPS, Slobodan Milosevic's list. It's a very clear definition. When you talk about consistency, you said before the election that you would not join the coalition with the SRS because it participated in Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Then you join the coalition with Slobodan Milosevic. So much for your consistency. They are not true claims that the Constitutional Court has made a decision that annulled any decision by Natasha Micic. The Constitutional Court annulled certain provisions of the law. There were no comparisons, I would not insult Mrs. Natasa Micic by comparing you, since she is not present, and I do not think it is appropriate to talk about her today. But it is certain - when you claim that Natasa Micic was guilty of not calling the elections, and you condemned her in the autumn when she said the elections would be called and the elections were called – that at the time you were in office of the president of the Assembly, when you have a legal act, you would extend the constitutional basis for calling the elections until December 28th, or until the time of the assembly's constitution. You agree to this, you make political statements that you will call parliamentary elections unless an agreement is reached, etc. You've taken over the public authority of the President of the Assembly. There's a constitutional basis. If you are consistent, call the election right now, there's no need to wait with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u321	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to take my time outside the Rules of Procedure. I would only like to say in two sentences, since Mr. Vukic mentioned the SPS, since the SRS first invited the DSS to build a government, and then the DSS returned and called the SRS and everyone else to build a government, please do not interfere with your relations, relations of sympathy or antipathy. As far as DS is concerned, since Mr Pajtic mentioned it, there is no party, there is almost no party that has not co-operated with Slobodan Milosevic, and not now when he is in The Hague, but while in Belgrade he was the strongest, and you all know it well, and they have also done so with Banet Ivkovic now that Slobodan Milosevic is in The Hague. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, let me repeat what I said today: Deeply hesitating and thinking among numerous candidates in the Democratic Party, related to their election assembly, I would like to say that the electoral list of SPS - Slobodan Milosevic supports Boris Tadic compared to Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-19-0.u323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please only two information. After this session, it will be held at the Bureau of the Management Board, and tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m. on Friday, I don't know which premises, the Justice Committee. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
