ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10552	For 73, against 125, five of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Seven, a total of 204 MPs did not vote for 76 against 121. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 124, six, a total of 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10553	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 124, seven out of 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 124, five, a total of 206 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 118, 12, a total of 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 123, six out of 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in general. Three, a total of 127 MPs did not vote for 124. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE FISCAL CASES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft fiscal register law to the vote, in principle. Four, 130 MPs did not vote for 126. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that the MP of Zivodarka Dacin, in writing, withdrew the amendments she submitted to Articles 2, 17, 18, 39, 43 and 45. It's a bill of law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 72, against 125, there was no vote of 8 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 12th Amendment was filed by the Ambassador of Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 101, against 106, they did not vote 2, of the 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 34th Amendment was filed by the Ambassador of Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Finance Committee propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 100, against 102, seven of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft fiscal register law in general to vote. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill on fiscal cash registers. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Peace of the Republic of Serbia Obligations to the National Bank of Serbia After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote of the draft law on the settlement of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia, in principle. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the bill, in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the settlement of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia, in general. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law on the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia. Since the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was to be considered as 15 points of the agenda, is withdrawn, we move to a decision on the next item. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Tax Law on the premium of non-life insurance Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting to the vote the draft tax law on non-life insurance premiums, in principle. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on the amendment. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 6. It's a bill of law. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 127, he did not vote one of 206 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the law on the tax on non-life insurance premiums in general. For 127, it did not vote 64 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the tax on non-life insurance premiums. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPORT OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on local self-government, in principle. For 127, they did not vote three out of 130 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The MP, Zivodarka Dacin, submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed to add a new Article 2a after Article 2. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 122, against 84, two of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Ambassador Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 105, a abstentioned one, three of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 125, three of the 209 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 126, three of 210 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 82, against 126, three of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the provision of Article 11. The bill has a feedback. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly will in particular decide whether there is a general interest. The Finance Committee has concluded that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 11. It's a bill of law. I would like to put the motion to vote for the provision of Article 11. The draft law has a return fact that there is a general interest. For 127, against, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 11. It's a bill of law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in general. For 127, against, of a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the distribution of TRANSFER RESISTANCES FROM THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA AND THE PARTICIPATION OF THE SERVES, CITY AND THE CITY OF BELEGRADS IN 2005. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in profit tax in 2005 in principle. For 127, against, of a total of 127 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that, in writing, the amendments were withdrawn by the Members of the People: Nenad Bogdanović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Milan Marković, Anita Beretić and Aleksandar Radosavljevic, amendment to Article 2; Veroljub Stevanović, Sanja Čeković, Slobodan Zivkucin, Radojle Buković, Radovan Teodorović, Nikola Jovanovic, Milan Minić, Bogoljub Pejčić and Tomislav Kitanovic; Nenad Bogdanović, Aleksandar Vlahović, Milan Marković and Anita Beretic; Milica Vojić-Marković; Goran Ilic and Slobodan Adžić; Arsen Đurić; Jovan Palalić, Dragan Šormaz; Branislav Nedimović; Zeljko Tomić; Dejan Stojić; Zoran Nikolic; Goran Davidović; Vuk Tomaš; Vukav Tomašić; Goran Đurić; Goran Đurić; Goran Đurić; Goran Palov Rakov Rakić; Dušanjev Rakić, Dušanmić (Palnomić, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović, Mirović) (P. The MPs withdrew the amendments to Article 3 and that: Radojko Obradovic at the session of the Committee on Finance and Radic Jokovic during a joint search. I remind you that it has been established that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the People's MPs Veroljub Stevanović, Sanja Cekovic, Radovan Teodorovic, Nikola Jovanovic, Milan Ninić and Tomislav Kitanovic to Section A, points 1 and 2. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 64, against 126, there was no vote of 10, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 3rd part A) Towns at point 1 and part B of the Municipality at point 138 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 100, against 98, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part B) of the municipality at point 50th of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Knezevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 78, against 118, it was not 13 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part B) of the Municipality at point 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 120, 68 of the 207 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part B) of the Municipality at point 116, the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrica Jankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 120, it did not vote 11 out of 208 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part A, Cities at point 1 and part B) of the Municipality at point 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 109 against 99, they didn't vote three out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd part A, Cities at point 3rd and part B) of the Municipality at points 38, 43rd and 83rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Živojin Stefanovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 104, he did not vote 21 out of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic to Section B, Part Three, paragraph 73. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 120, seven of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part A, Cities at point 1 and part B) of the Municipality at point 103.The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ćirkovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 22, of 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part A, Cities at point 1 and part B) of the Municipality at point 27th of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, against 108, 20 of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic to Section A, Part Three. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 117, four of the 212 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part A, Cities at point 1 and part B) of the Municipality at points 54 and 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 102, there was no vote of 20, of the 212 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part B) of the Municipality at points 27, 70, 76, 84, 92 and 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted by five, of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part of B) of the Municipality at point 105, MP Vladimir Jovanovic submitted the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 119, nine of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part B) of the Municipality at points 90, 103, 104, 115 and 131, MP Bajram Omeragic submitted the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 72, out of 210 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3rd part A, Cities at point 1 and part B) of the Municipality at points 30, 96 and 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Kekic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 101, 27 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in profit tax in 2005 as a whole. For 127, they did not vote three out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed a bill on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in the 2005 profit tax. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENT OF THE PRIVATION AGENCY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Privatisation Agency Act in principle. For 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and found that the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic became an integral part of the bill, we move to a decision on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency in general. For 127, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. Since the draft government law, which was to be considered a 20th item of the agenda, has been withdrawn, we move to a decision on the next point. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE FOR THE PRIVATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE KNJAZ MILOŠ FROM ARANJELOVICA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision on the amendment. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted an amendment to section I of Section 2. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 84, v. 127, of 211 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and legality of the conduct of the competent state authorities in the privatisation process of the company "Knjiz Milos" from Arangelovac, in general. For 157 against one, abstention 53, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and legality of the conduct of the competent state authorities in the privatisation process of the company "Knjiz Milos" from Arangelovac. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a search and since it is in accordance with Article 18(2). Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly has established a list of candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, according to Article 19. The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, decides whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote known by the MPs to each candidate individually, by raising their hands or by calling. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by public vote, by raising hands. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 136, against one, it did not vote eight out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote, by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly is done by public vote - by raising your hand, I remind you that, according to article 119. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by hand, the MPs first state who is in favour of the proposal, and then who is against the proposal and ultimately who abstains from voting, and that a candidate has been elected as vice-president of the National Assembly for whom more than half of the MPs present voted. I am voting on a proposal to elect MP Milan Markovic as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who's up for this proposal? (203) Who's against it? One. Who is abstentioned? Five. ) Since we have held a vote to elect the vice-president of the National Assembly by raising my hand, I am finalising the vote and announcing the result of the vote. Of the 209 MPs present, 203 MPs voted for candidate Milan Markovic. Having voted for candidate Milan Markovic by the majority of the national MPs present, I find Milan Markovic has been elected vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate the vice president of the National Assembly on your behalf and on behalf of you, and I ask him to take, with his beautiful last name, a place next to the president of the National Assembly. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Organization and Oversight of State Organs in the Procedure against the War Crimes Factors Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the course of proceedings against war crimes offenders, in principle. Two out of 143 MPs voted for 141. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that during the search of the Bill's proposal, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become amendments to the MPs: Zoran Krasic on Article 3; Milos Aligrudić on Article 7 and Verice Radite on Article 7. It's a bill of law. National MP Nemanja Sarovic tabled an amendment proposing that Article 7a be added after article 7. The applicant's representative did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 69, against 123, he did not vote 21 out of 213 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the course of proceedings against war crimes offenders in general. Two out of 146 MPs voted for 144. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the course of proceedings against war crimes offenders. Since the session shows the injuries of the National Assembly’s servants, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milovan Radovanovic said at a session on December 9th 2004, at 12.45 p.m., he pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 77, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. At the same time, I would like to inform you, the 11th session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, scheduled for Tuesday, 14 December 2004, at 1400 hours, will be held immediately after the end of this vote in Hall I on the ground floor. At the same time, I have been asked to inform the MPs that the session of the Committee on Transport and Communications will take place today in the V-story hall immediately after the end, the chairman of the Dragoljub Stamenkovic Board. Thank you. The beginning of the next session, according to Article 80, paragraph 3, at 16.30 p.m. Thank you. (The session is closed at 3:30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10554	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THE seventh session of the Second Regular Session on 14 December 2004 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 17.35 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 183 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than 126 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Knezevic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. In the context of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for a sitting agenda, with only one item: a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families, which was submitted by a group of 13 MPs. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. For 128, it did not vote five out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Agenda: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and members of their families. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Rights of the Borians, Military INVALIDs and MEMBERS OF Their Families You have received a bill submitted by a group of 13 MPs, as well as a correction of the interpretation of the bill submitted by the MP Bogoljub Pejčić, a representative of the motion. You have received amendments submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic and MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic together. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected, as untimely, amendments submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic to members 1, 2, 3, 13, 15, 17 and 24, so they cannot be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time in the debate is five hours in principle for parliamentary groups, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is common. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion, and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs report on the examination of the draft laws and amendments submitted, pursuant to Article 135(5) and Article 143. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly consider the draft law without the opinion of the Government, i.e. the report of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 112, against 18, it was not 24 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I ask the representative of the promoter, MP Bogoljub Pejcic, does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10556	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, for six decades now, the consciousness and subconscious of the Serbian people has been attacking that General Draža Mihajlovic and the Ravnog Movement is traitorous, Quislinic and fascist, who has gathered in Ravno Gora minds and slaughterers to deal with their own people. This is what the volumes of books are written about, which is what we learned from the Bucharests, so it says in the encyclopedias, all in the glory of brotherhood, and that the majority Serbian people are declared fascist and traitorous. Of course, they were lies of a winner who declared himself a liberator and instead of a Serbian, marched with the flag of the Communist International, after which a terrible ideological pogrom was carried out over tens of thousands of Serb thinkers, from whom Serbia has not recovered today. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that what happened between 1941 and 1944, that it was a classic civil war under occupied land, with mostly two opposing sides. From one, the Montenegrin, the national, the democratic and the other, the communist-totalitarian. In that war, neither were all partisans a social hostage, nor were all the eunuchs a bright cheek. There were crimes both on the one hand and on the other, far more from the Partisan one. It would be bad for us to turn this congregation into a historical court. For us, the most important fact remains that both movements were anti-fascist, as is most important to show and prove that the majority Serbian people were neither Quislinic nor fascist. This is what we owe to the descendants of the undeserved, for decades, to wear the yellow traitor's tape to the citizens of the second order. This law must bring peace to dissuade brothers, dissuaded families whose members were on one side and on the other. And finally, to reconcile us with ourselves. In the Spanish Civil War, anarchists, left Socialists, communists fought each other, and then all together in the Republican Army against Frank's fascist phalange. All those fighters Spain respected and carried their remains to one place and buried them in one cemetery, where today it says they all loved Spain, but each one in its own way. Do we have the strength for such a historic step will show a statement of MPs in this assembly, because this law does not challenge any existing right to members of the Partizan movement and their families, but that same right on the basis of the fight against occupiers and fascists also gives members of the Ravnogor movement. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, truth, reconciliation, the future, that is the essence of the proposal to amend the law so far. Let us never again allow a decent youth, such as Milan Gurovic, who is arrested by Belgrade students, to be declared fascist wherever she is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10557	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Milos Aligrudic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group accepts the debate on this bill as a way to reconciliation, and that is why we resent the promoter with several aspects. One of them is that he does not offer reconciliation in his proposal. So it was worth making a good law, we're going to vote for this one, and I'm going to make you technical objections to the law, but I'm much more interested in why this bill, in fact, doesn't offer reconciliation. Even a proposing official says the Partisans were not all of them a social hostage, he says they were communist totalitarian fighters. In the light of the bill's proposal, very harsh words are used towards the Partisans, and it should be reconciled, not so that 60 years after the war someone else wins, but to realize that the country's freedom fighters will always win, no matter what side they are on. I fought, Mr. Pejcic, in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, at the time it was a municipality, with representatives of your government as a council member of the SRS, when the names of the dead partisans' streets were lifted. Your MPs know that, and then, as I do now, I feel that the one who was killed by the Germans deserves to be mentioned with respect by the Germans in World War II. It happened to your very high-ranking representatives in your party to lift the name of the partisan street that died in 1942. He was killed by the Germans, and he was born on that street. Even 55 years later, you ideologically cut off the street where he was born. What do you blame him for? He didn't even welcome the release, he didn't have time to show you if he was a totalitarian or a Democrats. This law was supposed to be done studioically because it came from federal law. Its source is federal law that provides for rights. The Republic law only determines how the rights granted by federal law apply. You have now used the Republic law as a source of law, and here you have entered a story that we could draw suddenly, whether these are covered by disabled people, whether children and grandchildren are equal-minded. To meet you, and the grandchildren of the party bearers of the monument if they have permanent damages have the right to disability as long as they're alive. I know that this law is not committed to the Equality, it is few, but to one idea, to one movement, but how is it that Vuk Draskovic advocates this idea and that movement, because everything that is light in the Chetnica blacked out by Vuk Draskovic and mind and action. That's why I expect, at least from some of you, to sincerely represent this idea and to celebrate the Chetnica in its original form, in which the SRS carried it all over Serbian countries, because don't forget, and as you yell at au and o, all Serbian fighters in Krajina and Republika Srpska called themselves Chetniks, their enemies called them Chetniks. There were children of Partisans and children of Chetniks in the same trench. If you ask me, as an acquaintance, there were more Partisans children than Chetnik children in the trenches in Krajina and Republika Srpska. They didn't mind being called Chetniks. They understood the basic thought of Chettice, the struggle to defend Serbs outside the state, to join the queens. This law is difficult, it comes late, late for many, even for many living, not to talk about the dead. They don't have rehab. I believe they're fighting each other down there. If it's his desire to reconcile his grandkids, we've made peace a long time ago. The enemy has reconciled us. If we realize that both Chetniks and Partisans were right in 1941, then we are at peace. The historic movement of Draža Mihailovic failed. Historically failed, but this law doesn't apply to prominent Chetniks, they're all gone. It doesn't apply almost to those who ended the war in Chetnik decrees, either joined the Partisans or died on the Sremski front. You know the Sremski front was mostly sent to the Chetniks, mobilized, and it was some kind of purification. Don't forget, I was a boy when a fireman was tried. Probably some of you seniors know that. He was a terrible slayer, but the end of the war came to the Partisans. That's why it took so long to discover. Not all Chetniks were freedom fighters. I have a right to say that. Ask in the Shumadi, if they stayed in the best memory of the Chetnik, they did not. Did those bandits who separated go above the village, harass the village and the surrounding villages, and the chickens, the movables, the sister-in-laws brought to them, remain in a bad memory among the people, but they are not Chetniks. That's not the kind of thing I fight for. I don't fight for 90% of those who go to cafes and yell they're Chetniks. I don't fight for many of those who go to Straight Mountain, because they eat and drink. This law is a warning law for us Serbs, because more Serbs died in the clashes of Chetniks and Partisans than the Germans. Some history we've learned so far said it was the Chetniks. I knew it wasn't their fault. Our education system hasn't solved that dilemma yet. Our history science hasn't solved that dilemma yet. Let me remind you, my uncle who was the king's soldier, the king has invited him to join the Partisans of Joseph Broz Tito. He had a heavy dilemma whether to obey the king to whom he had sworn, or to obey his oath, so that he would never betray him to whom he had sworn, and not to go to the Partisans. This is a rehabilitation for my wider family and for my grandfather who was killed by partisans, and for one uncle who was killed by Ustasha, and for another who was killed by Chetniks. I always have inside me all the dilemmas that Serbs carry. To you, who do not have Serbia as your homeland, it is easy for you to make fun of everything. You wait for European laws, and Serbs wait for reconciliation. I'm just warning you, Vuk Draskovic is not a person who deserves to be bound by this law. Chetnica is the most sacred and beautiful thing Serbs have, but it is Vuk's call not to defend the Serbian country. Vuk's invitation to betray all the heroes and hand them over to The Hague is not Chetism, it's a Chetism that the partisans want, a Chetism that the filmmakers of the 45th year wish for, so to speak. But it was never the SRS that it was the true original. Have you ever heard us say one word against the Partisans who died in the war? You're not. We made that reconciliation in the party a long time ago. If this session of the National Assembly is an opportunity for Serbia to make peace, here we are, although we may be at the most difficult dilemma since the laws are declared in the Serbian Parliament. We have voters between the Chetniks and the Partisans.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10559	You have the right to use another 10 minutes. Will you use it?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10560	I don't want to use everything, I'm done. Don't piss off either of them, or the Chetniks or the Partisans, because we're discussing something that happened almost 70 years ago. Always keep that time distance in mind. What others have broken since the war, it does not bind to partisans. What the slaughterers broke during the war doesn't bind to the Chetniks. They don't deserve to be called Chetniks. That is why I am proud to say -- everyone who responded in 1991 to defend Serbian countries and the Serbian people, may be freely called Chetniks and Partisans. They called me a Chetnik on the front, and I wore a helmet with a five-pointer. There was no other helmet. If there was anything else, if I could have chosen, I would have chosen, but then it was important to keep my head, and the head is not the guardian of ideology, but the equipment. That's the kind of equipment we had, that's what we used, and we didn't mind, and nobody in Krajina laughed at us for wearing five-point helmets, but they laughed at us all over Belgrade. Those who hid themselves in a woman's skirt when the caller came and turned off the light, they said, "What kind of brushes are you with a five-pointer?" They're the best Chetniks. So please, there's one part of the explanation you should give up. That part of the argument is lyrically written, in moments I don't know what kind of inspiration is, I attribute to Vuk Draskovic. He can really write anything. And he can write a lot of good things, but in half of his explanation, he's fighting us again. I don't accept that. I accept that we are at peace, and I accept that we, too, are reconciled by the action of Sabela, and it was a debauchery upon you who were powerful and upon us who were weak at that time. And you give up what you did in Sabela action. If this is a day of reconciliation, and Christmas is very close, think about it too, let's all get back together. I warn you, we'll settle much easier to wait for March this year, when I predict great trouble for both the state and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-14-0.u10561	Since it's been 1800 hours, we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
