ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2348	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT NINTH SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION OF THE 20th April 2004 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 10.50 hours. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2349	We move to the work of the 9th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, called for 20 April 2004. On the basis of Article 38(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that for the representative of the DS parliamentary group for the 9th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, point 1. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, paragraph 2. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, paragraph 3. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, authorised by Bosko Ristic, a member of the parliamentary group. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 38(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the 9th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, at the 1, 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, authorised representative of the G17 parliamentary group plus to be MP Marko Krstin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. I am opening the ninth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Slobodan Vukkovic, Miroslav Martic and Zoran Micovic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt proposals for legislation in the area of justice, proposed by the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be considered by an urgent procedure. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, against 94, the abstentions were not voted by two, of a total of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2004, should be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted by one, of a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against 96, the abstentions were not voted by two, of a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The DSS parliamentary group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 134, there are no 8 abstentions, no 82 votes, out of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. A group of 82 MPs, the SRS parliamentary groups, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the allocation of funds for the recovery of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, in October 1998, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 92, against 123, three abstentions, did not vote 8 out of 226 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. A group of 82 MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, proposed that the draft law supplementing the law on special rights and duties of the president of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 79, against 140, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of a total of 224 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. A group of 82 MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary groups, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection and Social Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 79, against 143, the abstention one, did not vote four, out of a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the termination of the Law on the Rights of the International Criminal Tribunal and members of its family, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 April 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 20, against 197, the abstention of four, did not vote 6, out of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Branislav Ristivojevic, based on members 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice (paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Branislav Ristivojevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. With 126 against 98, the abstentions were not voted by three, of a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 127, against 97, the abstentions were not voted by three, of a total of 227 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the ninth session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and 4. A proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Work on the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Judges (Common Main Search 1, 2nd and 3rd Points of the Agenda) Mr Ristic, according to Posnik.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2350	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 90(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest that the time for the debate be extended to a double duration and I suggest you put that to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2351	Mr. Ristic, allow us to vote on this proposal when we get there, because we'll get there very soon. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Branislav Ristivojevic, and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The representative of the DS parliamentary group has just proposed a long time of debate in a joint principled search, i.e. that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 18, against 127, the abstentions were not voted 80, out of a total of 225 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. Since the total time of debate in the joint general petress for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is the following: SRS one hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds; DS-Boris Tadic 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes and 12 seconds; SPO-NS 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, five minutes each, paragraph 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the regular MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice. Does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2352	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, along with these drafts of the law, are given detailed explanations, so I won't take up much of your time. The urgency of changing these laws urgently is caused by the following reasons. We are in the process of making the "Study on Performance" of our accession to the European Union. One of the basic conditions is to amend the law in the area of justice, to ensure the independence of courts and prosecutors, and this is one of the basic conditions for "the feasibility study" to be positive. In 2001, laws were passed in the area of justice that meant two steps forward. This has also been evaluated by all international organisations. However, instead of these laws and those solutions being completed and taking yet another step forward, amendments in 2002 and 2003 have been made to that extent, that the evaluation of the Council of Europe, which we are a member of, the Justice Council, or the courts, that the independence of the courts is threatened, and that the independence and freedom of decision of prosecutors has been completely taken away. Last year's report is clear -- there are no reforms in the area of the MUP and the judiciary, so they feel like it's gone backwards. I'll translate that into one language clear to the citizens. I've been in court since 1969. It was not remembered either in Tito's time or in Stambolic, or in Slobodan Milosevic, or in 2001 that there was the possibility that prosecutors could be proposed by the executive authority and elected by the prosecutor. This is the first case that happens, and it reminds us overwhelmingly of those times in 1946 and 1947! These changes were made to place certain people in certain positions. For these reasons, we have already experienced a situation for the Constitutional Court to abolish one of the key provisions, which is that there is no longer, as a legislative body, a body that can choose and resolve the presidents of the courts. There are a number of procedures under way which we have given opinions in the Constitutional Court, and concerning those decisions made during the emergency procedure by the then v.d. The president of the state, Natasa Micic, as well as a series of provisions on the prosecution and the High Council. In order not to get into a situation where there is no law left in this key area that the Council of Europe feels is necessary to take care of, if we want to go anywhere, we had to approach these urgent changes. These changes are based essentially on those decisions of the 2001 Law but have been improved, more powers have been given to the judiciary, and the prosecution has been provided with protection by undermining the High Council of Justice and disfellowshipping any possibility by the executive to influence their choice or resolution. It will be the only Parliament to decide on the basis of their proposals whether a judge or prosecutor can be judges or prosecutors. Since the debate is united here, I'd like to point to several important newspapers. Since there is a big cry, and especially after those changes from 2002 to 2003, when changes were made to select a number of court presidents and prosecutors, that large corruption in the judiciary and indiscriminateness, this new legislative solution introduces one internal authority, so-called The supervisory authority, as an internal control body. This solution does not affect the independence of the courts, but ensures that any citizen can make a complaint or this authority self-initiatively to carry out the examination of the files and if it determines the irregularity or existence of criminal offences, to put forward a proposal to resolve the High Personal Council or to file a criminal report. The newspaper is compared to previous developments, where it has been said that the president may possibly be able to gain insight, in that this authority is obliged to inform the citizen after what he has found. That, as far as I know, has already caused certain excitement in some circles in courts and prosecutions. I think that's very good. An earlier solution where the president may possibly be able to make an insight into it has given no solution. You all know very well, the request for exemption is filed, the president writes to the same judge you're asking for an exemption, pleads, and he says there are no reasons -- and the president refuses without further involvement in the case and what the party complains about. The second paper is very important to me. Considering that there was an amendment to the law, and I say, in an emergency when V.D. The president overstepped his authority against the law and made a certain choice to six functions, with Mr. Ostojic resigning, so it's five, set ekaov. d. President of the Supreme Court then President of the District Court in Novi Sad. The law is explicit, so it says so. d. The President of the Courts may choose from the ranks of the Judges. Therefore, Ms. Micic took powers from herself that gave neither the Constitution nor the law to set up a key man as a judge's cap. Immediately thereafter, the appointments of V.D. followed. The president of the District Court, too, is choosing against the law of the municipal courts. We are coming up with an incredible situation that is unknown in the justice of European countries. At the same time, it is chosen for V.D. The President of the Fourth Court is a man who is the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. We're coming into a situation where you have an incredible situation, that you have a man who's the president of a court and a V.D. The president of the second court. These changes have been made, I say, that appropriate people are placed in key places. I draw your attention that the Belgrade court, according to the information I own here, covers 63.7% of Serbia's jurisdiction. After that, there are incredible changes to the law during the emergency, in order to create a semi-government body, the Justice Council, so that these people can choose. He picks them quickly for judges so he can pick them for presidents immediately, after a few days. It was a shocking thing to me, when they realized that it wasn't enough, since there was a brake in the former law, so they say, a member of the High Council of Justice can't progress. Mrs. Brkic was a member of the High Council. Then they quickly changed that provision and wiped out this brake so they could choose that person as president. To what extent the Law was violated, it shows me that the competition was called, and these changes were not made, only later do they so that they could have an organ that they could choose. Since they do not have the possibility of a valid body launching a contest, Mr Batic, as my predecessor, is calling for a contest to elect the Supreme Court president. You know, it would have been hard to find it in any law to give the possibility, except at that time as it existed in the contest that was called by Mr Batic; normally, he "missed" and the Law, followed by the correction of the contest, which was published in the "Official List" and "Politice". The contest has been called, and corrections have been made. It was the 22nd election already. Now I don't know if that 15-day deadline was respected. However, it may not be so important, since five people are being called competitions, so it doesn't matter whether the deadline is respected or not. The Constitutional Court suspended this. He estimated that it was an unconstitutional provision and that there was no authority to propose these changes. The possibility that these consequences can be removed only by this congregation and by law. That's why you have a transitional provision that decidently states that the persons elected in this way will cease their function, because they did not participate in the competition that was called by the authorised authority, nor did they be proposed by the authorised authority. This is the obligation of this congregation to remove these harmful consequences, so that the judiciary can finally raise its head and take some of its normal ways, and given this freedom that is given them, that truly certain valid personnel can bear the freedom they are given. Besides, this isn't about any rematch. These faces can also report to the competition and the High Council, if they find that they meet the requirements, they will propose them to elect this assembly. The prosecutor's situation is even more drastic. There is this measure, I say, in the back of the legislation, that we have come to a situation that is truly unknown in Europe. The Minister of Justice is proposing, and the government is choosing deputies. There was no way to place as many people as they needed, so the law was changed even worse. The conditions for the election have been reduced to non-conditional maltenes. You know how to elect a district attorney, and it's been two years enough to fulfill and have an internship in the profession so he can be elected, and for a deputy for a year. There is now under the law a two-year traineeship and two years least expert-cooperational so that you can report, and according to these changes, as the previous government has done, you could be the man who has no conditions yet to report to the competition to choose for example. for four years for the district attorney. That's what was amazing. So that the Republic could be elected has been reduced from 12 to 8, to adjust the conditions for the people they choose. You have an incredible situation that in the last election of 73 or 74 deputies - thirty and something was never in the prosecution, nor could it meet the conditions. So you've got people who've had a year or two. That's amazing. But that's why the prosecutions are disabled. It is a fact that if the principle were fully forgiven, we could repeat the election for all 580 and some deputies. However, we have taken the view that those people who have worked in the prosecution for years, so it was the re-election, there is no need to repeat their choice, when they have already been checked several times in the elections. This is about these last choices where, I say, thirty and a few people, now by these laws that I propose, we're not going to have a problem, they won't be elected, because they won't have legal conditions. These others who have responded to the reelection will pass through a normal re-election and the matter will be resolved without any rematch. Simply, the law will be respected and I hope that if this goes through, such laws, that we will finally put the judiciary on our feet and give it the opportunity to begin to decide really in accordance with the valid criteria of our destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2353	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2354	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important set of laws on the judiciary before us, and I feel it is necessary to warn Serbia that certain political structures are trying to bring the judiciary, just undermining and putting it under its direct political influence. These and such changes, which are advocated by the government as a promoter and the Ministry of Justice, directly affect the independence and independence of the judiciary and judges and provide one political control and installation of political processes against political insinuators. It is true that the judiciary as a branch of government and as part of the state system did not receive and that there were no changes in it that we expected and that we started. It's true that part of the change has begun. He began to deal with the political work of judicial officials who performed their duties and functions in line with political recommendations from their political headquarters. In order to ensure the essential independent judiciary and independence of judges in the decision-making, law enforcement, processing of cases, it is necessary to ensure constitutional guarantee of Serbia's independent position of justice. The DS advocated that in Serbia's new constitution, the constitution's special chapter refers precisely to the independence and independence of courts and judges and to establishing criteria and guarantees and judicial and judicial independence, that only the Constitution can provide for conditions and reasons for the resolution of judges. We also advocate an independent judicial authority that will decide on the choice and resolution of judges, by continuing to be elected by members of that body in direct and secret elections between judges and prosecutors of all courts, in order to ensure the legitimacy of this independent judicial authority. In this way, guarantees would also be provided in line with EU recommendations for the development of the judiciary and guarantees of judicial independence. The question arises, therefore, why the urgency and haste to change judicial laws when it comes to the adoption of a new constitution. Or Mr. Kostunica, as prime minister of the government, has failed his pre-election promises and does not believe himself that the constitution will be brought to Vidovdan, as he promised Serbian citizens, because why then bring those provisions to a set of judicial laws, which fall into pure constitutional and legal matter. After October 5th, there was also a change in the judiciary. The basis for its reform has been prepared, but it was necessary to create within the judiciary itself this embryo of change, that judges and prosecutors themselves start reforming the judiciary within. We were on that path, we started these reforms, we prepared a new constitution, and as you know there is a good degree of consensus and consensus about the constitution giving guarantees for independence and independence of judges and judges. What's going on now? The current minister proposed a change to the Justice Act, all with the sole aim of changing the president of Serbia's courts and those who, after the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic, accepted this very difficult, duty to oppose organised crime and to take risks and, as well as their family, to oppose the criminal acts that led to this terrorist act. Nowhere in the world, the presidents of the courts or judges change by law. Everywhere in the world, in developed democracies, the presidents of the courts and judges are resolved and changed within independent judicial councils. It's impossible to de-locate in this way, change linearly all the presidents of the courts who have been elected in a certain period. The necessity of changing the Law on Judges lies only in one member, which is that the Presidents of the Courts are also elected and resolved in the same way and in the same procedure as the Judges. It's the only provision in the Justice Act that has an excuse. It is the only provision that required this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Everything else is a front for the illegal and anti-constitutional shift of the president of the courts. This further shows the political intention to put the judiciary under the influence of political parties. The justification and justification that is entirely in contradiction with the content of the proposed solutions that the Constitutional Court has put out of force the provision of the law, which established the Administrative Court, which was elected by certain Presidents of the Courts, so that all the Presidents of the Courts should be resolved by law, do not stand. Only in the case where, on the basis of the application of the legal provision, which has subsequently become anti-constitutional, a return to the previous situation may be requested, and only those people affected by the anti-constitutional acts that have been passed under the provisions of the law that puts them out of force. There's no damage here. This is about retroactivity, this is about dealing with those who have raised the issue of judicial reform, because the political group to which the minister belongs is not responding to the judiciary that will be based on judicial self-government. It is clear here that the current government and that the current minister has made a compromise, first of all with those political forces, with the JUL forces, because they led the human resources policy (cadrified) in the previous period since 2000; they have appointed judges and presidents of the courts, created a judicial oligarchy shaped in one part of the Supreme Court, which continues to constitute a bassion that resists change and reform in the judiciary. The proposed solutions to ensure that the High Council of Justice and the Supervisory Board is filled exclusively with the order of the Supreme Court Judges without being able to enter these bodies as members of a judge of all kinds from each rank, shows the intention and agreement that the current authority has made with certain political structures within the Supreme Court itself. In order to bring about judicial reform, it is essential to reform the Supreme Court first and foremost, to find the possibility of professional, responsible, courageous and honest people who did not participate in the electoral thefts, who did not cover electoral machinations and those who did not protect judges who in lower courts covered the electoral machinations at the local level. Again, the question arises – why does the High Council of Justice have different compositions? You have members of the first and second order, those who are in the narrow composition and those who are in the extended composition. The question arises - why will judges choose and ask prosecutors, and prosecutors cannot ask or choose judges?- I'm sorry. All members of the High Council of Justice must have the same constitutional and legal position. That is why we have offered solutions where the High Council of Justice will consist of a series of judges and prosecutors from all kinds of courts and courts of different ranks, as well as different prosecutors. They will, according to our proposal, be elected directly and through a secret vote between all prosecutors and all judges. This provides the authority with legitimacy and offers the possibility for judges and prosecutors to trust an authority that should propose choice or resolution. The way in which the Government has proposed to introduce a supervisory authority is an opportunity to divide the judge into similar and unsuitable, that they remain similar, regardless of their work results, to the quality and honesty they show in their work, and that those who are not fit and similar are resolved. What's this coming from? As the law did not define criteria on the basis of which the evaluation of the work of judges and prosecutors would be carried out, to verify their professional responsibility, professional honesty and the results they showed in their work. Without criteria, and in the way the ministry predicted to elect a monitoring board in the judiciary, it remains a complete possibility for the minister to propose a resolution, since he has obtained this right by law, and that the supervisory board, respecting only political criteria and principles of similarity, comes out in the face of political oligarchy's wishes. Otherwise, I have to say that yesterday the presidents of Serbia's district courts met together with the representatives of the Supreme Court and that they have one general remark – that this set of laws did not come out in public debate, or that the expert public or any other public would have met with the content of this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2355	Excuse me, Mr. Ristic, will you use 10 other minis?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2356	I'll use it. Thank you. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice and the current authorities did not offer these solutions to the public check. They did not make a round table inviting legal experts, representatives and holders of the highest prosecutorial and judicial functions, where they would present their opinion on the content of the proposed provisions, suggested, as they suggested yesterday, an attempt to put the judiciary under "a handful of policies". So yesterday, with the meeting, a press release was sent to the public, where judges express dissatisfaction with such actions by the Ministry of Justice and the current authorities. This deviates from their pre-election promises, from Mr Kostunica's promise that this state will be legal, that legalism will be seen in acts, in actions, not just in mere verbalism. This says that we will not have, in due course, a constitution and that perhaps constitutional solutions depend on the outcome of the presidential elections, as the constitution will probably define the way the president chooses. how this corresponds to the current government in Serbia. The proposed solutions endanger the fight against organised crime. The judiciary has been structured, especially after Djindjic's murder, in the manner and criteria for selecting the president of the courts, according to the country's anti-organised crime authorities, to really deal with organised crime. In this way, the process of killing Prime Minister Djindjic is also detached, so that all those who have dealt with organised crime, with the asset, are discouraged, intimidated by judges and prosecutors, to realize that there is a political message that they can be resolved unless they are obedient. That is why the Democratic Party has offered a number of amendments, which point to a different system solution, which guarantees essential independence and independence in the context of possible solutions in the current set of justice laws. We expect that we will also receive support from developed Europe, the European Union, developed, democratic European states, in an effort to preserve the independence and independence of judges and courts, for what we will stand for through constitutional solutions. Later in the discussion of the proposed amendments, I will explain more detailed individual solutions and you will understand that we have offered one system that is acceptable to all political parties, for all those who want to invest in Serbia, for all those who want to live peacefully and peacefully in Serbia. I therefore call on MPs in this House to carefully escort the offered, conceptually different solution from that offered by the Government, and to prevent a political oligarchy, through the supervisory board, through the newly formed High Council of Justice, by the criteria proposed by the current Ministry of Justice, from making political distinction among the courts in Serbia and to resolve those who are not politically willing by the current authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2357	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stojkovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2358	I'll try to answer what I heard from MP Ristic. When I listen to him, I get the impression he wasn't looking at these laws. These laws definitely deny the executive authority any influence on courts and prosecutors. Look closely at the law, and you will see that what you have taken away in the previous period is coming back to these laws. The High Council, where most judges have, and when prosecutors report, then prosecutors report, they decide and they propose to the Assembly whom you choose, unlike your solution, where the minister could propose to the government and resolve it. That's what Europe said that it can't be done, that we can't go to Europe with such solutions, and you're talking about Europe and reforms. Then explain to the people why the conclusion of the Council of Europe for the past year is that in the judiciary it is a matter of rephrase to zero and that it has gone backwards. As for your observations to change the process of amending the Constitution, so you mutilated these previous laws from 2001, just when you founded a commission headed by my colleague, the predecessor, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission. You've also violated that existing constitution and those solutions that you wanted to allegedly put into that new constitution. That's why I don't see your claim now that we shouldn't be working at the time of the amendment of the Constitution. I'll give you one piece of information that we were forced to do this because we no longer have the organs to decide, thanks to your good changes in the previous period. The models of other countries were also used, and the models that were made here with us, among certain groups, were used, and I attended the round tables at which the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the Association of Judges of Europe were attended. Everyone agreed that the idea of the law is very good, that even the proposals of the Judges' Association are on the trail, and we also agreed that the proposal made by the Association of Judges means a good number of exorcisms, and that it must go into the law and not the constitution, i.e. that basic principles should exist in the constitution, and they are guaranteed by the constitution and the law. And that is – freedom and independence in the work of courts, sustainability of functions, irresponsibility for opinion given during the trial, and irreparability of judges. Those are the basic principles. I can tell you that even in the Venice Commission, and they are really experts who follow the "Sequential Constitutional Law" throughout Europe, they made it clear that even if there was only a provision – "that courts are independent in their conduct and decision-making", that it would be sufficient as a basic principle when you have a constitutional court that takes care to respect it. Therefore, this remark, which Mr Ristic pointed out, does not stand. The word here is that the executive government wants to put the courts under control. I really can't figure this out. If you have a law before you to confiscate all powers from the executive, unlike your previous period, where the executive power has directly put under control, so if the prosecutor does not press a valid indictment - the minister suggests, and it is resolved by the Government and vice versa. It's obvious you're substituting for thesis. We want to correct what you've done and put under control the existing judicial and prosecutorial authority. After all, it was also found in the reports themselves. The Council of Courts makes it clear that the courts are at risk, and the prosecution has lost complete independence and independence. It is said here that there is no criteria for choice. The council is made up of people from the judiciary with that little addition, these are the people elected by this assembly, the Bar Association, and everything else is elected from the judiciary, the General Session is elected. It is not true that the General Session only chooses from its ranks, on the contrary, it is said to be chosen from the judge's ranks. Therefore, it is not true that they will choose only from their own ranks. The Board of Supervisors elects, General session of the Supreme Court. I suppose we can agree that the Supreme Court is indeed the highest judicial authority in this country. If you do not believe him, suggest the abolition of that authority and the formation of a new one, but do not claim that the executive authority affects in any way the choice of judges in both the High Council and the Supervisory Board. On the contrary, it has no influence whatsoever. Here it is said, the minister can propose, or initiate, a procedure for possible resolution. So it's an initial act. The ministry has the right to oversee the authorities of the judiciary, if in this supervision, which cannot interfere in the trial, it finds that the courts do not work, that the courts do not act in accordance with the law - why it cannot initiate proceedings with a valid judicial authority, which is personally higher, that the personal council is considering whether there is a failure in the work of any judge or any prosecutor. I don't see it, especially when it comes to presidents. Why can't it, if there's so many gaps, and there's a lot of them, that probably soon when the budget controls go through, there'll be a question of what we're going to do, given that those four parts of the budget breach, you'll see if there are or aren't. As far as this claim is concerned, they're changing, and we should make a set of laws. These changes are made urgently under this procedure with this explanation, and I have given it, and it is normal that complete processing and the adoption of really valid laws, all five laws, and the seats of courts will follow, so that complete matter will be obtained that will be brought into line with the Constitution. I think that, looking at these principles that guarantee independence, the sustainability of functions, the inability to answer for an opinion in the work, essentially every constitution that is brought forward will have these principles. Another thing has also been said here, that the government allegedly wants to get rid of the judges and prosecutors elected in the previous period. I said it was five cases, where the Constitution and the law were drastically violated, and for the people to know, in this period of three years, were changed by the previous government, by all the presidents of the courts and the prosecution. Thus, if someone had made changes according to their standards and party likeness, the previous government had done so. This authority will not do so, and when these laws are passed, if adopted, the courts will decide for themselves, not the executive authority and this ministry as claimed. Therefore, if we want to discuss these laws, I pray that we stick to them, and indeed if there are valid proposals, we will each consider and see if this solution is better than offered, but let us not replace the thesis and all that has been done badly in the previous period, imputably impute this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2359	Right no replica, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2360	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I expected the minister to defend his laws, not attack some but historic solutions. I have to point out that the basis for everything I've put out in the opening statement is now confirmed by the minister himself, who has shown the methods and ways he will use to put justice under government control. He already advocates budget checks, threatens with this pay phone to the presidents of the courts, who knows what we're going to find there, and I'd ask the justice minister to come out first with evidence, arguments, and start a case against the law as arranged and as prescribed. Otherwise, a pact is taking place between the current government and the part of the judiciary set up by the JUL personnel at the time of the JUL ministers' ministry, according to the legal solutions offered. First of all, they are identical to those solutions written by Mr. Balinovac at the time when he was a member of JUL, and now he's a member of the DSS. He didn't change the ideology, he just changed the game. Therefore, Serbian citizens as parties to court proceedings do not have the right to a limited trial by party listeners. Otherwise, what the minister has responded as his view and remarks on the proposals we have made is absolutely unfounded, neither in the Constitution nor in the recommendations made by the European Union in the organisation of the judiciary. We advocate that the High Council of Justice indeed has legitimacy, we advocate the direct and secret election of members of the High Council of Justice from the ranks of all judges and prosecutors. When you see a particular solution that we will analyse during the later debate, you will see a lot of illogicalness, a lot of counter-constitutional solutions, a lot of unprofessional expressions, especially about the transfer of judges from one court to another. It's said to be moved to the courts of the same degree, and there are no courts of the same degree, there are courts of different rank. They're in court. Therefore, you can have courts of different rank and the same degree, first-degree and second-degree courts, but someone did not make a difference and it was all just a mask to get rid of judges who were elected after the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, who were ready to face organised crime. You failed to conceal that fact and your intention even for this speaker. You just said it's what you want and it's a small number of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2361	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I want to say, as far as JUL is concerned - and the special prosecutor, I think Mr Prijic, was a member of JUL. So much for the sympathy and antipathies of one or another branch of the former DOS towards JUL. As for, too, being a member of JUL doesn't mean that you still had the same favorite, one of the biggest popular TVs, despite its owner being a member of the JUL before. Here, of course, is something else. After October 5, 2000, a great cleanup was done to the judiciary. Those who speak today about the lack of rematchism have hanged judges, prosecutors, judges for offenses, just because they have performed their duty and function at the time of the previous government. This law is not an attempt at restoration, or return on time before 6 October. This law, as we understand it, is not enough and does not bring in newspapers in terms of the entire system, the entire judicial system. It removes something that happened during a state of emergency. During the state of emergency, 12,000 people were arrested in Serbia, by law, by changes in the laws you have passed here during the state of emergency and by regulations of the then V.D. President of the Republic of Natasha Micic. That's when a category of police detention was introduced that doesn't exist anywhere. People could be in police custody for 60 days plus 30 days without the right to an attorney, without the right to visit the family, and most importantly, without the decision of the competent court. You broke the Constitution! Also, at a time of emergency, part of the judicial code has been changed, which is that the deputy prosecutors are appointed by the government. Of course, that the presidents of the courts and prosecutors were appointed, i.e. by the person and person who came to the seat of the president of the Assembly and because Serbia had no president, without the national legitimacy, to act as president of the Republic, which in its original meaning also has certain powers in times of emergency. Also, I'd like to remind you that the verdict was issued on RTS at the time, not in the courts and not in the prosecutions! The processes were not conducted in regular or special courts, but you first published in the Second Journal, and then the whole case was proven. You violated that sacred rule of "presumption of innocence" - that no one was guilty until proven guilty. You, the previous government, because of what was done during the emergency situation, and contributed that, several weeks or days ago, Jeffrey Barrett of the European Union, the European Commission, presented a European Union report stating that it was one of the objections to our country that the judicial system had put under "executive", under executive authority. In that sense, probably the meaning of these proposed amendments, a set of judicial laws, is to remove from the legal order solutions that represented the organisational and personal subjugation of the judicial system to the executive authority. The latest stage in the corruption process was changes in the set of judicial laws that were carried out during the state of emergency, which was scheduled for the government to appoint deputy prosecutors, and public prosecutors were elected by the National Assembly again on a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia. This bill, in part, removes the inferiority of the judicial system, i.e. the public prosecutor's office, against the executive, by giving the specialised judicial body, such as the High Council of Justice, which now includes both public prosecutors and judges, the right to propose the choice of public prosecutors and deputies exclusively. However, this is still not enough for serious reform in the area of the judicial system, and we think that it is only the beginning of a process that is necessary to have an independent and stable branch of government, which should be the judicial authority. In the SPS parliamentary group, we have been considering and proposing several amendments. Some amendments also concern the composition of the High Council of Justice. We felt that it might be good for the number of two to be increased to four from the prosecution's ranks, because it would be fine if, when it comes to prosecutors, prosecutors within the High Council of Justice practically had a majority, when deciding on issues that are within their jurisdiction. Also, we believe that the choice of prosecutors entering the High Council of Justice could be slightly different, and that means that, because this way does not cover the most numerous part of the prosecutor's population, and these are the deputy district attorneys, municipal public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. So the significant lack of this set of laws in the area of justice is that he only removed those shortcomings that were made by the amendments to the law, which were carried out during the "Sabbe" action. Other poor legal solutions have not been eliminated, and above all those that restrict the independence of the public prosecutor's office as a state body, and of course there are objections that have come from the European Union and from the Council of Europe. In that sense, I think it is necessary for the Ministry and the Minister of power to come out very quickly with a conceptual and fundamental change that will be related to the issue of the change of the Constitution, because although in our Constitution it is not defined how they are elected, who proposes judges, prosecutors etc. I think the new constitutional solution must have a precise formulation to ensure the independence of the judicial authority. Also, it is necessary to consider some other solutions that are in the field of hierarchy in the field of the prosecution, because Serbia today is almost the only country in which there is a free and zero limited involvement of a top prosecutor in the work of the lower prosecutor and prosecutor; there is no elaborated system of disciplinary responsibility and clear criteria for the progress of prosecutors etc. So we need one conceptual, new look at these issues that we're discussing. It is clear to all of us that in the past few years there was no independent judiciary, there were no independent courts, there were no independent prosecutors. It is well known that some criminal charges filed for the alleged abuses of previous ministers, assistant ministers from the time of the previous government, have appeared in the media. How is that possible without executive authority? We asked Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic -- how is it possible that at the time of the "Sabbe" action, during a state of emergency, the ministry publicly announced that red berets were killed for the SPS account?- I'm sorry. He said the interior ministry never announced it, and it came out of his ministry as an official memo to the media. Who gave it to you? Executive power, execution, whether it's the communications bureau or the National Security Council, whatever. Those who today have objections that they will limit themselves here independently of the judiciary, I would like to remind them that this bill and the possible changes that will follow here are babies compared to what you've been doing for the past three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2363	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the Sagalos are Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, DS - Boris Tadic and SPS. I give my word to the People's MP, Zarko Obradovic, after him, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2364	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, amendments to the Law on Judges, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the High Council of Justice, create legal and institutional assumptions for the independence of the judiciary and, logically, to improve the situation in the judiciary. I must say, both reasons for the SPS MPs are acceptable. The amendments to the Law, which have been in the past two years since July 2002, in particular in April 2003, have led the judiciary to finally and completely fall under the normative and organisational control of the then ruling DOS coalition. The amendments to the DOS Act "fulfilled" one of its promise in the fall of 2000, when he mentioned that the judiciary would share the fate of the media. Since all the media are in the meantime, and central state television and so on. Private television was essentially placed under DOS control, amendments and additions to the Law of July 2002 and April 2003, and the judiciary achieved this strategic goal, which is to be a blind listener of interest and the need of the then ruling coalition. I must say, unfortunately, that the amendments and additions of these laws will not be able to eliminate all the negative consequences that have taken place in the past period, because they will, unfortunately, exist for a long time, because they are related to the way they work in the judiciary and to the humane solutions. It should be said that in the past two or three years, the judiciary, unfortunately, has reached very low branches because it has lost its independence. Simply, not only could judges and prosecutors not have been able to do their own job, but the government has repeatedly, I must say, in a very illogical, incorrect, sometimes in a bold way interfered in the work of the judiciary, simply, influenced decision-making, commented court decisions, etc. There are countless examples and they are not worth mentioning, but it must be said that it is a good thing that, for example, by amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the government is sheltered as someone who essentially subordinated the prosecution to the needs of the executive authority. That's one big illogicality that's been removed by these changes. I must say, there were a dozen other examples of the government's illegal behaviour. For example, I will mention only one strange and bizarre story, unfortunately for these people very difficult, and regarding "judgmental offenders", which in 2001, a huge number of them, by purely political criteria, were expelled from their jobs because they applied the provisions of the then Information Act. Not only that, they didn't even get the chance to participate in the event later. Of course, the government not only wanted to take them as relevant factors, as someone who competed, but also ignored the decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which settled in the administrative dispute and decided that these judges were right. They simply didn't want to apply the law. Why? For the simple reason they needed politically similar people, and that's how they acted. It is therefore good that these amendments and additions of the law be adopted in the proposed form, so that the judiciary can make at least one, first, but in our opinion a very important coral towards its independence. All that was related to the prosecutors is something that Serbia did not accept and, objectively, in the long time that is ahead of us will be subject to a negative assessment. For example, I have to mention one case concerning the Municipal Public Prosecutor of Backa Palanka, Mr. Milorad Trosic, an example of a man who is according to political criteria, meaning the profession and everything else that would be the subject of some distance from the prosecution, all of this has been ignored and by the most political criteria he is away from work. Unfortunately, the job was also attended by the former Republic Prosecutor, the District Prosecutor and the D.A., who resigned yesterday, as well as the Special Prosecutor. Everyone was involved in that case. I must say that, looking at this case, given that we have received documents from men and MPs, and the public of Serbia is believed to be astounded that measures have been lightly expressed towards people with whom the common language may not have been found, or possibly thought differently about some political issues. For the sake of this example, I will mention that the district attorney's office, in order to defile a man, has filed a motion to conduct certain investigations on suspicion of committing a crime. In the explanation v.d. The municipal prosecutor has one, I say, a monstrous sentence, that this man in one hunt "using another's hunting dog to catch a grizzly wildling, saying, "hold it, hold it, catch it, then catch a hunting dog and catch a grizzly." It's a unique case in the D.A.'s field, that the dog was someone who was forced to catch the snorkels. Of course, that doesn't make any sense, but you had to find the basis for a man to get out of court. When it comes to expertise, a man was burdened with unprofessional work. All right, unprofessional, unprofessional, but there's a little problem. Two examples taken in the Republic Prosecutor's Decision as an example of unprofessional work are later, by V.D. the municipal public prosecutor, in a regular procedure rejected. Later (the next) the prosecutor gave up prosecution in two cases that are burdened by man. So, you had to find anything to get a man out of work. The case has a number of other contents, but I think this is quite enough to mention as an example of what was done in the judiciary and the prosecution. I think that the negative consequences will remain for another time, for the simple reason that, unfortunately, certain people, by politicality, are appointed to certain places. They simply continue to act on political criteria. I don't know how we're going to apply the provisions of the Law on the High Council of Justice, because, as much memory serves me, in an explanation that, otherwise, very detailedly, the first criterion of the success of the work of the High Council of Justice is the need for the profession to dominate politics. That's where, logically speaking, extremely professional people should be chosen. But we have one fundamental problem, that among the members of the High Council of Justice and the current president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, who did not hesitate that at the time of Operation Sabela, and also later, he makes public statements that he is a political member of a DOS option and that he considers it, or he, however, not to enter into persona, personally, entirely logical to do the job. Of course, it can't do that. Not to mention the case that they're V.D. President of the Supreme Court, and V.D. President of the District Court in Belgrade and V.D. The President of the Fourth Court appointed at a time of emergency, contrary to the provisions of the Law on Judges, that the provisions of the Law on Judges were later amended, to find a formal legal basis for these people to do their job. These provisions were later declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, but they did not mind continuing their work, instead of resigning, creating a legal basis, so that the judiciary and the professional authorities should assess the quality of their work and, if they really deserve, be elected to those functions that they did. They're simply still not just working, they're trying to create an odym against these laws. It is interesting that a statement issued today by Politics, that yesterday was a meeting where these same people, which should now be the subject of the evaluation of their colleagues, not the subject of the law, but the evaluation of their colleagues from the profession, plead that the issue should not be discussed until a new constitution is passed. I have to say, that's very funny. From what I've mentioned, these amendments to the law and to the judges, the prosecution and the High Council of Justice are a good basis for the judiciary to take a step further towards its full independence, which, of course, would be very important for the construction of institutions in the Republic of Serbia, that we should support this step. If there are provisions that need to be improved and discussed, but because of the staff solutions, simply, many of the negative consequences of the work of the judiciary over the past three years will not be possible to remove. I must say, given that I was one of the MPs who was a member of the previous Committee on Justice, I must say that they look very strangely at the discussion of some colleagues from this pay phone, when they talk about an independent judiciary and the like, given that I was in a position to see firsthand what criteria, of course, the ultimate party, whether it is a member of the party and whether the Staff Committees agreed and so on, people were chosen. The profession did not dominate policy, on the contrary, the reverse and now, so honesty should be talked about the profession and leave the policy in a different plan because the profession must dominate policy if we want the judiciary to be successful, and thus the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2365	The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2366	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, the situation in the Serbian judiciary is difficult and I think that this assessment will be agreed by the largest number of MPs of this Parliament and will be agreed by the largest number of citizens, and, of course, those who, in different court procedures, have the opportunity or the opportunity to seek judicial protection from regular and other courts in Serbia. To our troubles and the European Commission, as said several times here in its 2003 report, has apostrophe of the situation in the judiciary as one of the most important issues that the Serbian state should deal with, both this parliament and the executive power, as well as Mr Minister. It is very important to have a clear awareness and idea of the facts. These facts, of course, represent the causes of this condition. In 2000, the state of justice was at the lowest civilization level in the 20th century in the Serbian state. At such a low level, there was not even during the reign of Joseph Broz, when Mr. Minister was also a judge. What a terrible thing that is, I dare say, is the state of justice. In that the government that existed in Serbia in the last decade of the 20th century, it has managed to compromise and compromise the justice system to the ground. By finding a sufficient number of loyal judges or, as it is said, the legal authorities, who have agreed to participate in "election thefts, which have agreed to participate in counterfeiting the electoral will of citizens, who have agreed to participate in the counterfeiting of our lives and yours, as well as mine". As a result, the reputation that the judiciary had in Serbia at the end of 2000 was just as great as Slobodan Milosevic and these gentlemen who earned it here, who supported him, as his listeners in the power that was shot down on 5 October 2000. Of course, one of the most important processes that began on October 5th was an attempt to restore justice to dignity and restore its essential independence. The attempt resulted in the adoption of the 2001 Law, unfortunately the Democratic Party, a law that failed to get as deep into the sick tissue of the Serbian judiciary as the Democratic Party wanted. Then it is important to face the next fact, what was the state of justice in the spring of 2003. I'm just going to give two illustrations. And a day-to-day trial against one of the vice-presidents of the Republic's public prosecutor at the time is under way on suspicion that he was corrupt by the largest organised criminal gang in Serbia. A second picture and another illustration, following an assassination attempt by late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic here, in Belgrade's suburb of the "hall" that is now ending, the perpetrator of the crime known as Bagzi was released from custody with an explanation that he has to complete urgent official affairs -- was released by an investigative judge with the prosecutor's consent. These are illustrations that speak very well and very picturesquely and very plasticly about the state of justice in the spring of 2003. Then there was a tragedy, because Zoran Djindjic died and it was a tragedy for the entire nation and for all of us who deeply respected and loved him, but also for those who did not because of it, but for Zoran Djindjic as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. When you tell Mr. Minister that during your working century, never the executive authority had this kind of jurisdiction in the judiciary, I will be free not to kill the Prime Minister once during your working life, so that the executive authority would have the need to take over certain jurisdiction over the judiciary. What happened after the assassination is what is said in the usual language, self-defense, or if you want legal -- technically, the necessary defence not by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but by the state of Serbia to protect itself. The state of Serbia had to lay down such rules to ensure that its citizens could be protected as well as constitutional order. That's the facts. Now we're talking about a condition that exists a year after all this stuff I've been talking about. We can debate the need to change regulations, and the essence of what you have proposed and the essence of the complaints that MPs have on your proposal to amend the law will be discussed when this law is discussed in particular. Here I would read the qualification of the consequences of the amendments to the regulations that you have given explaining the amendments to the laws that you have sent us here, where you say, and I think that this is the essence of the things: "That these amendments to the law remove the adverse consequences caused by the Council for the Judicial Administration which the Constitutional Court found not to have been set up in accordance with the Constitution, as well as that it is," and most importantly, "provoked uncertainty in the legal order, and the elections made on the proposal made by that body made even worse even worse by the poor state and dissatisfaction in the courts." I ask you, Mr. Minister, on what grounds did you determine the lack of satisfaction in courts? What procedure have you conducted to determine the existence of dissatisfaction, I assume the judge, well, when you say in courts? Have you heard from Mr. Minister that yesterday the President of the Supreme Court had a meeting with the presidents of the district courts and that the initiative came from that meeting or cry out to this assembly and to you, first of all, to be "reroved" from the agenda of this set of laws, i.e. amending the law. I hope you'll be kind enough to let us know how you've determined the existence of the above-mentioned dissatisfaction. On the other hand, I ask you to direct us, since we are obviously not familiar with these facts, which consists of a deterioration in the functioning of courts in the last year. Which consists of a reduction in the urgency of the courts, which Mr. Minister's statistics suggest you make such a conclusion, which you were free to give us in the light of these laws. I want to conclude. In this way, as Mr. Ristic said, you will by law, or you intend to "resolve a number of court presidents and deputy prosecutors". This is how you violate the Constitution, Mr. Minister, you, proposing, but of course the parliamentary majority if she adopts such proposals. You're breaking Article 13. A constitution that guarantees equality before the law of everyone. The laws and regulations on the basis of which the election of the President of the Courts was carried out were subject to the assessment of constitutionality. However, the result of the Constitutional Court decision is not such that it leads to the resolution of these judges. Why don't you, Mr. Minister and, or whoever's in charge, initiate a procedure to resolve all these critical presidents of the courts, so that in a regular procedure of resolution, you can determine whether their intricacies exist, whether there is their incompetence, whether there is their incompetence and whether they have violated the law?- I'm sorry. There is a bad practice, which is established in this House, that laws that are contrary to the Constitution are passed. Sometimes the Constitutional Court reacts - and what happens if today's parliamentary majority adopts these amendments to the law, we'll just see. The resolution of the comprehensive situation in the judiciary can only be implemented in constitutional changes. We are in the process of adopting a new constitution. What is necessary to establish is the true independence of the judiciary, which is, of course, reflected in the independence and freedom of judges to do their job and their function. But, on the other hand, by establishing clear mechanisms that will be able to give a big answer to the question of how the responsibility of the judge, who is the second medal of independence, will be able in an efficient, accurate and reliable way to determine. And in the end, it's possible, Mr. Minister, that we don't have the same value vessels. I believe that after a state of emergency or a time of emergency, after the prime minister's murder, people who need to be given every confession and honor, because they put their heads on the line. I have a reserve for the people who tried for the verbal delinquent, Mr. Minister, because it's not possible to connect with my value code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2367	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2368	I'd say the MP broke Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Petrovic, the SRS has never supported anyone. We have participated honestly and honestly in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You, and you know it well, and the whole of Serbia knows how to support the American administration, the American Congress -- how they supported you, and you've been through it! The fact is that in Serbia so far, our judiciary has never been absolutely independent, but what was during the three-year DOS government, nor has it been remembered, nor will it be remembered. It has never happened, and I hope that it will never happen that the minister, like Minister Batic, brings before his office a judge of offense, who judged by one law adopted in this House and gives each of them three minutes of conversation with him and that each one of these judges says - you've been applying that "Seselj's information law," are you ready to forget about joining one of the DOS parties and doing what I tell you from now on. Those who accepted it, who were very, very few, were left in the court for violations, those who said they didn't want to do it, that they wanted to do it only by law, that the judges were not to judge the law, but to judge by law, they were resolved, they were fired and they were still waiting for the Supreme Court's rulings which they know for sure were passed, but they still don't know who didn't pass those judgments of the Supreme Court, to which all these judges were returned to their judicial functions. As for DOS authorities and DOS relations to judges, one of the finest examples for you was Mrs. Leposava Karamarkovic, who was here in the stars, who you said was the best, and when Mrs. Leposava Karamarkovic cancelled your obedience, when she was not prepared to submit her judicial function to your executive authority, then you broke the trees and stones to that same woman. Of course, you replaced her with the lady recommended by Nenad Canak, Mrs. Sonja Brkić, since Nenad Canak was a judicial humane at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2369	Replica National MP Dusan Petrovic. The People's MP, Verica Radeta, reported to the Rules of Procedure. The right to reply, please, MP Dusan Petrovic, and then MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2370	If that's offensive for the SRS, I really can't change that. Supporting is not an offensive word, and you can choose for yourself a word that would qualify for holding the power of Slobodan Milosevic, that when Seselj won the elections, he left power to Milutinovic or Liliæ, I can no longer remember all of those figures that were at the head of Serbia, and that you find an adequate term for all of what you have done to extend the power of the worst political furniture that has hit Serbia in modern history in the last 200 years, Mrs Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2371	Replica on the principle discussion of MP Dusan Petrovic, MP Branislav Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2372	Dear fellow MPs, I would briefly refer only to Mr Petrovic's presentation. Mr. Petrovic, you, or the authority that you have decorated, were the undertaker of the Serbian judiciary. You, distinguished colleagues, first elected people without a basic qualification to the highest and most responsible functions in this country, and then adapted the laws to their qualifications. You chose a man who was a cop, not a prosecutor for the Republic Attorney, and he didn't have enough years of work experience, so you changed the law to adapt him to his knowledge, to his modest knowledge. You have appointed President of the Supreme Court a woman who has not been to the Supreme Court of Serbia. Before that, she was the President of the District Court in Novi Sad, and the day is not a judge there, before that she was the judge of the City Court in Novi Sad and there she had little trial, she was more of a pain and maternity leave! No one's ever had such a meteor career before. No wonder that woman as president of Serbia's Supreme Court has said she is considering applying changes to the Criminal Law retroactively. Who can say that? That first year of law school student won't "shut off" one of those nonsense. Now you're coming and giving us some lectures here, you've amended the D.A.'s Law, so that someone can be a deputy prosecutor, that there's less practice than a judicial intern. Where's that? As for the prime minister's murder, I'll tell you. It is not a tragedy that Zoran Djindjic was killed, it is a tragedy that the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia was killed. It's a tragedy. It could be Petar Petrovic, it could be George Djordjevic. It's a tragedy. As far as Mr. Djindjic is concerned, he was killed by a unit that was under his direct command, its members. Under the rules of that National Security Council, that unit was put under Mr Djindjic's direct command and her members killed him. As for the introduction of a state of emergency, it can be introduced not because of one problem, not because of one case, but it can be introduced for example. chaos on the part of the territory in the state. For example, when the scepters rise up in Kosovo and Metohija, a state of emergency can be introduced, not when one man is killed. That's the case, that's not the problem. You've been incarcerated for 90 days. Well, it's the Roman Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, in 1950! What a 90-day black police detention! You've arrested 12,000 people, 100 of them fairly finished in court. And that's what you call a crime deal. It's a crime charge when you stick to the principles of Criminal and Criminal Prosecution, and you finish with them the work and the charge you have with crime in the state, not when you bring the state down to the rank of a criminal. That's what you were doing! What happens if these people demand the protection of their rights before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. What's it gonna be? Those 11,900 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2373	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2374	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising article 100. The Rules of Procedure, with all the MPs of the Assembly aware of what this article refers to, I must tell you, although I call on the other position of this member, it is that the MPs are obliged to address each other with respect, on behalf of fellow Members of the SRS Group, and I address Mr Petrovic, that we do not expect any respect from him. We don't need respect from the failed DOS criminal regime that belonged to Mr Petrovic. We do not need respect from those who are not only supported, as Mrs Radet said, but also received help from the American Congress, the US government, at the stomillion dollars, from those who in three years' time, as they ruled this country, seduced such a horror, in the most terrifying way dealt with their political insolences, and we did not say for free so many times from this pay phone that you were true followers of Communist Joseph Broz. The same methods you applied, only a little more perfect, according to your fellow MPs and political party leaders, and future Mr Petrovic, when you go out, at any time, anything to talk about, and especially to make such a lie, make a small account when you mention the name of the respected professor of Law School, Mr. Professor Vojislav Seselj. Not only are you not worthy of mentioning his name, because in law you understand only so much as to tell the truths and not to know that representatives of your regime and your Minister Vladan Batic, proposed to the MPs of the National Assembly for the President of the Court in a municipality in Braničevsky County, a person who abused and abused his own wife. For the President of the Court, in southern Serbia, without "and one day" in the judiciary, you appointed a man who came from the post V.D. Director of the failed rubber industry. And, so in turn, I am not talking about what kind of terror was being carried out in Belgrade courts and in all of Serbia by Minister Vladan Batic, a failed DOS regime. And, Mr. Petrovic, about you and how you respect the law and how you behave with the position you are in right now, we will speak very quickly at the great national rally in Šapec, and be sure that the people who will wait for us there, as well as our presidential candidate, will bitterly and with applause to welcome all the things we will talk about your machinations, to bring them out in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2375	Of course, I cannot influence how the MPs will treat one another, and I cannot influence whether it will be with respect or not. I'll leave that to you. If you wish, the National Assembly can declare this in Vote Day. As far as respect for the dignity of the National Assembly is concerned, it concerns the respect of the dignity of all the MPs, not just one parliamentary group, so that the harm of the National Assembly can also be declared, if you wish, in the Day of Vote. The word is by MP Dusan Petrovic, a replica to the presentation of the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go. After him, MP Ivica Dacic, replica, and then...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2376	So, as far as the real one is concerned, you can talk to me whenever you want to talk and get a lesson. If you're interested in anything, I'll be happy to tell you, and I'll give you everything that stands out as my knowledge of the area, which I normally do professionally. It's hard for you and I to have the same level when we talk about the law. And, by the way, it is very indicative that you fall into the fire when history is mentioned, in which you were indeed servants of Slobodan Milosevic. That's what gets you, but it's a painful truth and a painful history. Think about it. Now you're stronger than them, but it doesn't mean that Ivica Dacic won't steal any votes from you in the elections now. We'll see how this plays out. I'm just saying to my young colleague, so you're as if you've been arrested yourself during a state of emergency. Ask some citizens what they think of the state of emergency. (The voices -- they said in the elections. ) What the citizens said in the elections is only a result of the lack of police and justice skills, so that they are able to complete all those procedures that have begun. The current government, now, has the opportunity to show itself and to start reforming the judiciary from the point where we stopped it, but that, Mr. Minister, is not done by laws like this but by fundamental constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2377	To complete the round of replicas, if you agree, on Dusan Petrovic's exposure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the first responds to the national emissary Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2378	The replica is under Article 97. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate is precisely showing the motive for the proposed laws. It is a purely political fight with its inexplicables, which has been brought first and foremost by the DSS and its representatives here in parliament, as well as their current minister of justice. The mention of Mr Djindjic in such a negative context, and his murder by extremists and organised crime, with the apparent support of certain political circles, which were the spokesmans of this criminal organisation, show the intention to stop the process of the murderers of Zoran Djindjic, by changing the president of the courts, which are said to be – only five, according to their jurisdiction and territory covered by them, with the reason that this is a minimalistic approach in the judiciary, are indeed such that they are causing disdain in the fair world. All that was happening in the introduction of the emergency situation and the activation of the "Sabbe" action came under full support from Serbian citizens -- 87% of Serbian citizens have come forward in research to support measures to clean up with crime in Serbia. They've been estimating this as the safest period of life since they remembered these socio-political changes in the country. I can't understand that the president of the DSS, in this way, is expressing itself, using fascisoid ideas to explain his behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2379	Please control the terminology you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2380	There's something else I have to say - the works show motives. The fact that the head of the Information Agency has been appointed by a gentleman who is most often called by protected witnesses is to those who need to testify against him. It's a message against those who need to demonstrate the political motivation of this event. He's trying to intimidate protected witnesses by the fact that their safety is being called the most in this criminal procedure. This also shows the withdrawal of the indictments precisely in these political changes that occurred at the top of the executive government. The charges have been dropped precisely against those most named and most involved in this assassination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2381	The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2382	History will judge, Mr Petrovic, NATO aggressor servants.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2383	Just tell me which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2384	Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2385	Article 100?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2386	Yes, article 100, the gentleman called the SRS servants of Mr Slobodan Milosevic and the regime Slobodan Milosevic. Serbian Radicals Only Servants of Their People Unlike you, Mr Petrovic and your party officials, and your party ideologies, who served and served those who bombed Serbia. [[Applause]] When it comes to the subject you started, on the basis of which you tried to offend the members of the SRS, we neither fall into the fire nor you can insult us. What we're saying, we're saying for the sake of the public, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure that we voted on, not because someone like you might be offended by a Serbian radical. We participated honestly and honestly in the government. At the time, I was the deputy minister of justice, and at the time, Mr Petrovic, what happened today could not have happened, because today we have resolved the judicial functions of Mrs Vera Stamenkovic, the President of the District Court in Nis. And that lady you appointed as the President of the Court in 2002, and in that year she was already obliged to inform the Ministry of Retirement in the course of that year - and then the request came to Mr Hiber, who at the time was the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee, so Mr Hiber kept it, he probably had a drawer, and the current Committee on Justice and Administration asked the Administrative Committee and the Secretary of the Assembly to examine how the case could have been archived without being discussed. Just to see how the SRS parliamentary group works, I've just been saying that the Supreme Court's rulings haven't arrived yet regarding the return to the work of the judge for violations, and here, from now on, the verdicts have arrived and I've received a copy of that verdict and now I have a question for the current minister, Mr Stojkovic. The verdict was reached on 31 March 2004 and a number of judges returned to work by the Supreme Court, the Serbian government did not return, and had an obligation under this verdict?- I'm sorry. I'd like you, Mr. Minister, to explain to us what happened, why all the people aren't back at work, what's the problem. If we don't get an answer from you today, we're going to ask the Justice and Administration Committee to examine it and to establish, what makes different arches for the same people on the same basis? Who does not respect the Serbian Supreme Court's decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2387	My explanation for your violation of the Rules of Procedure is the same as the previous violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you wish, the National Assembly and the Administrative Committee may declare this. Here you are, MP Bosko Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2388	Article 97
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2389	The 97th is a replica, a basis for replication? Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2390	Article 100. The MPs are obliged to maintain the dignity of this house, which means they're telling the truth. Therefore, the truth is, I would like to say that the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Leprechaun Karamarkovic, has been elected to the DSS's strong insistence, even though she was not the judge of the court. Therefore, if we are talking about honesty, it should be known that the political motivation of the proposal for the presidents of the courts is precisely from that political option and that is how it came to this parliament. As far as the President of the District Court in Nis is concerned, I can say that it was a person who was extremely active in judicial reform and raised the results in the trials and results in the Niš District Court with municipal courts covered by that court at the highest possible level. Therefore, there is no critical assessment of the suitability of this president of the court to perform his duty. As far as the years indicated by the gentleman from the bench are concerned, I would like to say that the Committee of Justice has considered the resolution of all judges and presidents, including Mrs Verice Stamenkovic, who requested before the Constitutional Court of Serbia the assessment of the decision, which determines that she has completed the conditions for retirement and before the age. Because that is how judges are placed in an unequal constitutional position, because, according to the Labour Act, all other employees have the right to work until 65. Their work is decided by the employer. The employer is the judges of the state. I must say that in the Supreme Court of Serbia, during the period when Mrs Karamarkovic was president, a large number of judges worked for up to 67 years, it was Mr Ivosevic, a few other judges who were needed there for the support of the Supreme Court, sorry to put judges from lower courts in full submission. There was no internal independence of judges compared to multiple courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2391	As for your advertising of the Rules of Procedure, it would be nice if you didn't use this 100th member as regards the dignity of the National Assembly for abuse. First Ivica Dacic has a replica, just tell me whose exposure? To the presentation of Dusan Petrovic; then the People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic, a replica to the presentation of the People's Messenger Vjerica Radeta, followed by the MP Branislav Ristivojevic, a replica to the presentation of Bosko Ristic's National MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2392	Since these exhibits have lasted long, remarks by the Rules of Procedure, we may have already forgotten what was Mr Petrovic's exposure. I answered the line about his presentation, about a few sentences he said, about a party that I'm the head of the Parliament Club. First of all, I must say this time that since 1992, the SPS has not had an absolute majority in any assembly; neither in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia nor in the Federal Assembly. So, since 1992, almost everyone in this room, by a little each of you in your own time, has supported our authority and then the legally elected President Slobodan Milosevic, who received two million votes, which some candidates can dream of. I would like to remind you that the party whose vice-president is Mr Petrovic, was also in late 1993 and 1994, not collectively, but individually joined the government of Mirko Marjanovic. Also then came Mr. Radulovic, Djukic and Krstic, who are allegedly excluded from the DS. Also, I wouldn't remind you, and I wouldn't cause conflict, the way student demonstrations were stopped in late 1996. All in all, then, do not argue too much and kidnap over who helped the most to stay in power as long as possible. You've all helped, and thank you for that, and I hope you're proud of that. As far as other matters are concerned, we've been in power for 10 years, and this former DOS regime, which we've been listening to so many praises, has managed in three years to leave such a disastrous result, that it can now be spoken of as the former regime. Mr. Petrovic insulted an entire branch of government in Serbia. He insulted the court's authority. He said that by 2000, this branch of government was at the lowest level of civilization. I would ask that we have all due respect for the people who work in the judiciary. They don't make laws, they enforce laws, they follow laws. As for that, after 2000, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, you replaced all and the presidents of the courts, municipal, district, Supreme Court, you replaced the prosecutors, you replaced them all, and Mr. Petrovic said the situation in the court was in the spring of 2000... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It was catastrophic. What people have you replaced? For the public's sake, I'd like to say that in 2003 you replaced the same ones you set up after October 5, 2000. Who are you complaining about? After all, Zveki, who Zoran Zivkovic popularly called Zveki, was killed by Zoran Djindjic. He was fired from state security at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and our authorities, and was returned by the court's decision at the time of your authority, ladies and gentlemen. (President: I warn you again in time. In addition, do not accuse anyone else of being a spokesman for some who killed Mr. Zoran Djindjic. It's a shame we're talking about a dead man. I don't want to talk about him. That's why I'm talking about those who were next to him. But we have nothing to do with those people who killed Djindjic, and you look closely at who was among you who killed Djindjic and someone was his spokesman, who was at their private parties... (President: I am warning you again that time has exceeded. )......................................................................................................... Whoever did the job with them, the top of your party was connected to the organisation that killed Mr. Zoran Djindjic. Please, who led these people's children to visit illegally, contrary to the legal regulations of the people in Central Prison. Don't switch to someone else. Don't switch your mistakes to someone else. Mr. Zoran Djindjic was killed and it is the biggest tragedy that happened to Serbia last year, because he was the Prime Minister and it is not good for a country to do so. Don't take responsibility for someone else now. You were in power. On the other hand, it turns out that the ones you've set up at a time of emergency, they're now national...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2393	National MP, I warn you, you've exceeded your time, two minutes. Replica, MP Dusan Petrovic, at the presentation of the People's MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2394	Those who know psychology will easily decrypt these debates, even when no one mentions them, and when they don't call them, they start talking about the things that burden them. Everyone about what's on his soul. As far as servants and masters are concerned, the results of politics and facts are the only way to justify the true judgment. The results of the policy led by Milosevic, the radicals supported, are that hundreds of thousands of people were left homeless in Croatia and found themselves in Serbia; 250,000 people from Kosovo are located in Serbia. Only a few tens of thousands of people have succeeded, because of their courage and of course the previous government's support, and now the state of Serbia has provided to be held in Kosovo and Metohija. Today, Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina are struggling to maintain their status. These are the results of the policy, and you dare say that you were servants of the people. Woe to the people with such servants. As for the collaboration, Mr. Dacic, everything we had to tell you, we told you October 5th, both to you and to the radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2395	Replica, MP Branislav Ristivojevic. He gave up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic. Tell me which member you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2396	Article 97
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2397	Replica, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2398	Because the MP group and the party by which the parliamentary group bear the name and leadership of my party and the top of my party has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2399	The party has not been mentioned. You have no basis because Mr. Petrovic came out on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2400	I am a representative of a parliamentary group whose party is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2401	You have no right to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2402	If it's on the line, I won't, and if it's according to the Rules of Procedure, I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2403	People's MP, Ivica Dacic. On what basis do you want the word? Replica, MP Ivica Dacic, directly mentioned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2404	I've still got time, I haven't used another 10 minutes as group chief, so I've been thinking about getting back to you, but I'm gonna take this time, too, 'cause I don't need to miss the time to say everything I need to say. So ladies and gentlemen, comrades and friends of the Democrats, which is why you criticise others, how many votes did you get in Kosovo and Metohija -- as a statistical mistake when someone doesn't see well to circle. You're talking about people in Kosovo and Metohija. What are you talking about? When someone mentions you, you say - we have fallen from power. We, ladies and gentlemen, fell out of power in 2000. If I'm your greatest reach for what you did on October 5th, then as far as October 5th, you should understand that October 5th was carried out not by your merit, that the elections were then "for a little" won by Vojislav Kostunica, you know it well, and that, of course, after that, you took the people out into the street so they wouldn't discover that the elections weren't held until the end and you know it well. That's why you burned the ballots in the Federal Assembly. On the other hand, as far as we're concerned, we have no reason to de-polize with you, because we are a completely different electoral body than you. But really when you're back in time for the murder of Djindjic, don't mix the subject with the subject, the laws that are on the agenda. You did not then change those laws to resolve the issue of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, but to place even more hard-line your people in the judiciary. That's clear. You changed the ones you had previously set: Leposava Karamarkovic was not ours. Terzic, Simic, who set them up? This assembly at the time of DOS's majority. What are you talking about here? You've replaced everyone, you've replaced the maids in the courts if they were in favor of the SPS, and you're talking here. You hung people while you said there was no rematch, and now you're talking about it here. You've now remembered democracy. It's just like when you're talking about breaking the Rules of Procedure, setting things up, throwing choices here, etc. Well, you've introduced a new practice, so you can vote from Bodrum, Beijing, Thessaloniki. It is the technical promotion of this assembly. In any case, you've taken the terms. Where are your voices now in power in the previous year? (President: Time. I think Mr. Petrovic, when he spoke earlier, insulted one whole profession, people who deal with justice. I don't think that's good. Let's leave these people, who do their job, to be an independent branch of power. I know that every government wants to have an impact where it shouldn't have any influence on the media, both the justice system and the police, etc. Now, don't glorifice the state of emergency. From what you're saying, it turns out that the ultimate goal and ideal of every citizen is to live in a state of emergency. Then let's switch things up! Please, when you're making a new constitution, make the state of emergency actually a regular state, and then move on to a regular state in exceptional circumstances, only when the people need to be released a little bit. That's why you can't regret not having called the election today at a state of emergency. That's right. If you had signed them then, I suppose, as Mr Petrovic said, that both the judicial system and the police would have had a lot to do with the election results. But there's no more emergency; 12,000 people have been arrested, more than during the "informbiro," and you're talking about Tito! Well, you should talk about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2405	I think it's done with the replicas. No more replicas. Everything you had to say, you said. I give the word to the messenger of the people John Palalic, and after him the messenger of the people Peter Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2406	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to return after these long discussions on the proposal of today's debate, which, three draft law in the field of justice, which the DSS can say is opening, and one part of it solves the problem of the independence and independence of the judiciary in Serbia, which has long been at the level of the normative declaration, although the previous authorities have sworn that they have both normatively and in a practical way. What is often forgotten when it comes to the independence and independence of the judiciary, in addition to the fact that it affects the exercise of the rule of law, is that important international documents and the general Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, has been declared an independent and independent judiciary as one of human rights. The documents found that the defendant was entitled to a fair and public trial by a independent and independent court. (President: Please let us listen to the MP. ) This is exactly what the former government’s hypocrisis is looking at, which has pompously announced the ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights, and after that... (President: I ask you again to listen to the MP. A little respect and respect for each other wouldn't be offensive. )......................................................................................................... After amendments to the law, in 2003, in fact abolished the independence of Serbia's judiciary. It was mostly just in 2003, after the introduction of an emergency. The assessment of the state of justice in Serbia was best given by the European Commission in its report, which noted that, besides the police, the judiciary was in the most difficult state in Serbia, that nothing had happened on this issue. Of course, we are now at the beginning that this important human right, the right to judge an independent and independent court, is re-established and implemented in practice. As the minister said in his presentation, the DSS proposed five laws in the area of justice in 2001, which represented a major step towards judicial independence and independence. These laws guaranteed their independence and that the formation of new independent bodies, professional and competent, such as in some other countries of Europe, such as Portugal, Italy or France, the High Council of Justice, which resolved on the choice of judges, and also on the material status of judges, as in the Great personal council. It also minimised the impact of all other branches of government, executive and legislative, and thus created all conditions for a major turn of justice. However, all these reform steps of these DSS proposals were annulled, as we said, by amending these laws during 2002 and 2003, mainly through the will of the ruling DOS political elite. Right now we are at the beginning of the construction of new institutions in Serbia. In her exposé, the government said it would seek to remove any irregularities created in the organisation of the judiciary and the election of judicial officials. In fact, it is a condition of creating a rule of law in the state, which should be one of the strategic goals of this high house. As regards the proposed amendments to the law, they intervene, the basic text, in the work relating to both the choice and resolution of judicial holders, enhance the efficiency and quality of the case resolution, and rightly form bodies dealing with status and material issues in the judiciary, which are now completely independent of the executive and legislative authorities. As for amending the Justice Act, it covers a few questions, but I'll concentrate on three. When it comes to the choice of judges, it is indeed the minimized influence of the National Assembly, its arbitration. The assembly can elect a judge on a proposal from the High Council of Justice and it cannot make a choice different from the proposal of the High Council of Justice. In a way, highly conditional way, she has one right to a suspension veto: she doesn't have to choose that candidate, but she can't choose the candidate she wants. What is important in this case is the fact that it has the right effect on the quality of the choice of judges. The choice of judges is one of the essential conditions of judicial independence in Serbia. The one who forms criteria for this choice, who cares about professional quality, moral integrity, of course and experience, is the one who in some way forms an independent judiciary in Serbia. Only a professional, competent and independent judge will be subject exclusively to the law and will be the only one who can apply the law beyond influence, material and political. The paper and a good step in these amendments to the law is to form a supervisory board. There is no need to remind, and we who practice law know how long court proceedings, how rarely debates are scheduled, how long it takes to wait for decisions to be made. The law loses its meaning and the protection of law loses its meaning if the processes are delayed and if it lasts long. In the courts themselves, as the minister said during his debate, that right provided for in the basic text of the Justice Act, that unless the proceedings were completed within six months, the report was submitted to the Presidents of the Courts, no concrete effect was given in practice. The parties were mostly left to write a number of complaints that did not come across any echo or winding of their proxies, which had any impact on the judges or on the President of the Court to make the hearings more quickly. It is precisely by forming this Supervisory Board, which is formed, of course, by the Supreme Court judges, that a party in a procedure that is one of the authorised persons, can initiate the appeal procedure, for the first time obtains a concrete opportunity to decide whether its proceedings lasts long, whether a quality decision has been taken on its initiative, influences the court itself. Courts may, after that control, take a few things after the controls have been carried out, or initiate a judge's resolution if irregularities are identified, or propose to the High Council of Justice to propose a disciplinary action. What cases in practice there are in this matter, there is no need to remind. The one I personally had: after the first-degree procedure ended, the appeal procedure lasted for two years, and the defendant who lost the dispute, the interest ran from the day of the first-degree verdict, for two years of default in the second-degree, had to pay interest and subsequently sued the state. In addition to the many urns he wrote about getting rid of the object faster, he eventually waited to take away his property. As for the question of the election of the President of the Court, I think that these amendments to the Law have finally ended with the right political control over the courts done through the President of the Courts in the previous period. The Council for the Issues of the Judicial Administration was highly politicised and biased - and its formation and the way the Presidents of the Courts were elected on this issue gave his position and his assessment of the Constitutional Court. It is indeed justified, however, to review the election of the president of the courts in previous periods, because they knew they had political support behind them, they created a climate of intimidation in courts, and the possibility of resolution was in the air because the presidents knew that they were behind them minister and executive power. Now, after these elections, the president is elected in the same way as the judges and it is indeed a real shift towards an independent judiciary. As far as the proposal to amend the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, I would like to point out that as a body that prosecutes perpetrators and other criminal offences and takes care of legality, a specific body is very hierarchically organized by its structure. When such a body is completely subordinated to the executive authority, as it was done in the previous period, it can be very easy to influence the fight against organised crime, it can be very clearly channelled and selectively carried out in a way that will be charged with and investigated. Just in the past, we witnessed such a condition. The debate rightly noted that the prosecution was a plug of justice. Many criminal charges remain unrealised, and many actions against individuals have not been processed. Indeed, in the coming period, there should be something that should be done to strengthen the control within the judiciary, and in particular the prosecution. I have to look back, because this is where the District Attorney's Office was mentioned in Backo Palanca, and since I'm coming from Backa Palanca, I want to point out that this "securial hunt" that was mentioned here really caused a disturbance among the citizens, since not only the district prosecutor was involved, but also a senior prosecutor. There was police intervention, and not getting into whether there were any elements of the crime, whether there were political influences, I would like to point out that after that, the reputation of the prosecution in this municipality has fallen significantly, and even in previous years, very critical of the work of the Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca. Finally, I want to point out that these proposed laws are a step towards creating a rule of law in Serbia and restoring dignity to courts, better protection of citizens, and they are the right messages to Europe that true reforms in the judiciary have just begun and that they will no longer be the least-cased area, will no longer be negatively subject to reports delivered each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2407	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Zivojin Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has given priority to the proposals of these laws. We expected the Government of the Republic of Serbia to have some of the agriculture laws as a priority, as this is a priority issue in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the area of justice and regulations and laws from 2000 to today have inflation of laws and regulations. What is characteristic of the previous government, and also of the present, is that no one will leave aside and raise his hands from justice, because justice is a very important instrument of one lever of power with which, in any case, it should be served or, in any case, accounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, some who here criticise and accuse the time of Joseph Broz or Slobodan Milosevic, I must say that some in their houses have held their images as icons and viewed them as pets, and today they are greatly critical of them. I have to say that those who estimate that the situation in the judiciary since 2000 is better than it was before, in my opinion, that's not true, because there is a number of evidence that can deny such claims to people who did not actually speak in favour of the judiciary because they said that there was the worst situation in the judiciary until 2000. It could not be said, and I could never agree with that, because people who worked in the judiciary were placed on certain functions in the judicial authorities, therefore, from the municipal court to the Supreme Court, and it was also true for the people who performed the prosecutorial office. It is also seen that SRS MP Vjerica Radeta mentioned Leposava Karamarkovic, who had been replaced, and in her statement she said she did not want to succumb to the pressures of politics and individual centres of power and therefore wanted to leave the judiciary with honor, as she did. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes that since 2000, there has been plenty of time to pass one system law, comprehensive, and not to make additions and changes, because only this can solve the issue in the judiciary and the judiciary. I also disagree that there should be an assessment that there are crime and corruption in the judiciary everywhere, because there are honorable people working there. If there are exceptions, there's a way to do it anyway. If you start with how judges are chosen, we can't be satisfied and we can't support that the assessment of expertise, morality and dignity will be able to let a privateer hold an independent shop or a small private company in which the candidate who applied for a judge or prosecutor is qualified, professional and worthy. I agree that the courts must and should give the last word to the College of Courts, general sessions from the municipal to the Supreme Court, as well as from the municipal to the Republic Prosecutor's Office should give an assessment of the expertise of candidates who compete to work in judicial authorities. When it comes to time spent on legal affairs before the candidate is elected, it cannot be accepted that the candidate who spent two or four years in legal affairs for the president of the court, then the municipal, district and Supreme Court are elected for the judge. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in England, as cradles of justice, the judge becomes 50 years old. That's not an accident. As far as resolution is concerned, I must again say that the issue is not resolved enough, nor has it been sufficiently promoted. There is no more of them, institutions or bodies, to make proposals and to replace, if necessary, one authority, on the proposal of one authority. In any case, it is not recommended that five or four of them should have the right to propose a resolution without providing an explanation to the Members of the People for whom they have appointed. For each of these to be removed, material must come before the MPs, explained, which is why his resolution is sought. The previous government, there, was replaced by Miodrag Mali, who was otherwise a famous and excellent expert and lawyer, was the district attorney in Novi Sad. Immediately after taking over power in 2000, he was relieved of his duties due to his intricacies, and his intern, three, four or five years old, became a high-ranking official in judicial authorities. This is absolutely unacceptable, and we believe that in the area of justice it is necessary to improve the judiciary so much that professional people, people who have been checked, people who will share justice, who will not fall under the influence of the politics and economic power of individuals must choose in the judiciary. It's very dangerous for the judiciary, as far away as possible. When Nikola Pasic was Prime Minister, he called the minister of justice into the cabinet and asked him if you were interested in a case in court for one of your relatives? He says I did ask when he'd be finished, he'd be gone a little longer? Nikola Pasic told him - Mr. Minister, please go to your cabinet, write down your resignation so that we do not politically discredit you in government and in public. So, as far as executive power goes, it has to be from the judiciary. That is why I cannot accept the view that Serbian citizens are guaranteed and provided security during the "Sabbe" action. Who can accept that if 12,000 people are detained, arrested, detained without the right to defend under the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure?- I'm sorry. That's what the government did. Government decisions were decisive. How can we accept such an assessment and such commendation that only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were safe and peaceful at the time? No, on the contrary, no country has experienced torture and terror, such as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the "Sabbe" action. Therefore, the "Sabbe" action should be put on the agenda and set up a polling committee, which will determine who issued the orders from the centre of power, who gave, and threatened, the orders to judges and prosecutors, which is why you could see, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, to open a beer bottle during the day, you could see a representative of the government threatening judges and prosecutors and scaring the public and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can't accept that at all. It is the worst evil that has happened to the Republic of Serbia from October to today, and no one boasts about it because it is the most embarrassing. Who says it was supported by international organisations, institutions? That's not true! The warnings were serious and the demands were precisely from Europe and other countries to suspend the "Sabbe" action and translate everything into a regular state. That is why the SRS cannot accept this proposal. These are only partial cosmetic changes -- without one comprehensive full law in the area of justice, it can't be said that we are promoting the judiciary. That is why I say once again, Serbian radicals have not accepted those proposals that were before, so 2001, 2002, 2003, and even now we cannot accept, indeed, these proposals that are being made. Then I would say, in the end, it would not be good if public prosecutors were to be appointed indefinitely, so for life, and that the deputy public prosecutors from municipal to Republic were elected for eight years. It's a re-election. We're just going back in time for re-election. Therefore, it is necessary to make all citizens equal before the law and in the course of action. So, the prosecutions in the most part, 99% represent the deputy public prosecutors, from the municipal to the republic's prosecutor's office. That's why there's no need to make that difference. Why? They don't have the legal certainty of a deputy prosecutor on this proposal, in no case at all, and legal certainty is given to prosecutors and judges. I believe that there is no difference in the work, because they are judicial officials, they are elected by parliament and they should have the same rights and obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2409	National MP Bosko Ristic. You want a word with the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2410	The Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2411	Tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2412	Article 82.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2413	Article 82, just a little bit. What attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2414	I am advocating the violation of Rule 82(2) of the Rules of Procedure that a third of the parliamentarians present in the hall are required to debate, and since this is a very important issue, which is the issue of independence and independence of the judiciary, I expect you to establish a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2415	National MP Bosko Ristic voiced doubt about the existence of a working quorum. Please confirm the quorum. Here you go. I ask the service to count the MPs. Since we have a quorum to work on, we continue. [[Glasses: Running radicals, applause.]] The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic, and then Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2416	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it would be a good idea to have a quorum, for the first time in my life, I answer my word. You heard the SPS's position, that we will support the proposed laws because they form a good basis for the fundamental division of power in legislation, judicial and executive. They also make changes in the 2001, 2002 and 2003 law changes, when the executive power played a dominant role in judicial authorities, particularly in the position of judges and prosecutors and in perrosal solutions. I have two fundamental objections, and that's the D.A.'s bill. I think it is necessary to equalise the continuity of the prosecutor's office and the deputy prosecutor's office. They are doing the same job, although the billmaker says the prosecutor's deputy is not a constitutional category, but he draws original rights from the appointed, or elected prosecutor, doing the same job, and should at least level it with judges and prosecutors in the process. In the case of the law on judges, there is a concern that the Supervisory Board will slightly compromise the independence of the court as it engages in a quantifiable decision with judges regarding professionality, since there is multi-stageness in courts, in decisions, in the right to appeal, in the right to return to the previous situation, in the right to assess legality, we believe that there is a need to restrict the right of the supervisory board when it comes to professionality, security and non-awareness in the work, because it slightly reintegrates into one fundamental independence of the court, although courts and judges cannot be permanently and absolutely independent. It's good in this proposal that this bigger one is finally being abolished for the judge's office. This means that the law eventually abolished Batic, who burned and burned these three years in the area of justice. Since I come from a small environment, like Leskovac, not to mention how much the court has lost dignity or consequences in the judicial authorities, in those last 10 years, I'm only going to say that the judges, all the heirs in the judiciary, have lost their dignity in just the last three years. For example, from my neighborhood, I'll support it. At the time of the 2001 law, the amendments until 2000 and 2003 were resolved in Leskovec, two deputy district prosecutors were probably simply because they were members of the RIK, and no other responsibility was determined, no expertise, no intricacies, no non-discipline, no number of cases performed. During that time, the vice president and RIK is being promoted by the municipal court judge, elected Chief of the MUP in Leskovac. At the same time, two municipal judges are dismissed. One, just because he's the son of the chairman of the JUL County Committee at the time. They release the President of the Republic Council for violations, only because he acted in one of the cases on the complaint of the local radio of Leskovec, under the Information Act. That's why he was relieved, and when he got the conviction to go back to work, then they invented a crime, they arrested a man, they found custody for 30 days, and since they couldn't find anything, they let him go after 10 days, and now he's a man without a job. Here it is said and moaned over the rights of those who will be re-elected, i.e. their re-election or re-naming, and there is no mention of people who are illegally, in this procedure, being replaced, and others have come to their place. Whether they can be placed in the same legal status, in fact, by those people, bearing in mind that the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law have been annulled by a judicial decision, that is, by the Constitutional Court, whether they can come into the same position as those who will be re-elected. There was also talk of great efficiency and urgency, of the professional work of the judicial authorities. I'm sorry to say for this speaker, since I didn't get a chance to say that for any other pay phone, the media was closed. Some MPs from the former DOS were glorified here on October 5th, as well as the conduct of courts and all judicial authorities after that date. Gentlemen, that night my house was burned down in Leskovac while the Federal Assembly was burned down here. Since that day, although television has transmitted this burning of houses to the municipal prosecutor's office in Leskovec, because the prosecutor has been appointed to the DOS, the case remains with – the NN perpetrator, and there is no man in Leskovec who does not know who participated in the burning of houses that day! After that, the procedure was also initiated in the civil case, for the determination of damages and damages. The president of the municipal court, Mr. Jankovic, who is a member of the Democratic Party, as such named nine months of lawsuit, is still unsettled with the judge. It's efficiency, it's up-to-date, and it's the political conduct of local authorities in the area of justice. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will also vote in favour of the drafts of these laws, as they form a good basis for the separation of judicial, legislative and executive authorities, while at the same time making a depoliticisation in the judiciary. Just over the last three years, the largest fugitive people in the judiciary have been in the political parties that have been in power. Now most of the members of Batic's party, DHS, are in the judiciary in Leskovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2417	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic. (The SRS emissary asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. You will be given a word by the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 89(2) of the act's proposal, or an authorised representative of the act-makers' Group, it shall be given the floor when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the debate. The word has a minister in the government, Mr Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2418	I'll try to answer some questions that are raised here. Ambassador Petrovic spoke about prosecutor Sarajlic and Bagzie. In that court is the man they chose. I will not engage in cases, I just want to point out that the deputy prosecutor, Sarajlic, has been appointed from their side as the first deputy district attorney and from there to the Supreme Court. They asked where I got the information that the judges were unhappy. I must tell you that I also went to the Supreme Court, attended the General Session and saw what was going on. I was going to the District Court, so if you don't believe it, here's a statement from the entire county court, I guess you'll believe that people are terribly unhappy and on the verge of a strike, because of the kind of measures they've been done in courts. Mr. Petrovic said he's having a hard time falling for a verbal delinquent, so he can share legal advice with everyone and that's why he can't agree with me. It's his personal right. For example, I cannot accept intricacies and corruption. We find it difficult to agree on some things, for I do not belong to the party whose basic motto – to whom it is moral, let it go to church. It's morale for me. I was asked how it was threatened by the judiciary. We have major objections to judicial work, but we don't have an authority that can suggest that the president be elected or resolved. A series of provisions was assessed by the Constitutional Court, and the situation is such that people have been brought in, I mean the previous period, I repeat, by proposing, the government elects or resolves. A mass of people are left, you know, out of work, so he's using those six months -- and you're asking me if there's any security or uncertainty in the judiciary! Mr. Ristic said he wanted the truth to be told here, and I completely agree with Mr. Ristic. When he's telling the truth, I'll remind him of my duty and respect for Mrs. Pretty Karamarkovic. I've been with her intern, you know, since 1969, and on top of that, I came to the 1980 District Court, and Mrs. Karamarkovic then went to the Supreme Court and was in the Supreme Court at the moment of the presidential election. You're mistaken, Mrs. Brkic wasn't the judge of that court! Also, as the minister of justice in which the judiciary is located, I must express my opposition to the terms used for the judiciary. You know, it is in a difficult situation, the judiciary has shared the fate of this society, and it wasn't great. However, on behalf of that large number of honest and honest people, do not use such terms as are used for exceptions. Unfortunately, I can agree with you that this is the large silent majority that works and is silent and therefore I will answer your question about the meeting - and Mr. Ristic invited me, I think he was, too, I got a call. Of the 29 district court presidents, let me say immediately that no Trade Court has been called, and there are another 150 and some municipal ones who have not called. It came in less than 15. The meeting was scheduled for 13.00 hours, I didn't want to leave, because I have experience to talk about people, you talk about one thing, and I say, please as honest people and judges, you give a statement and you get a counter-report. I'm not going to go through the press, that's why I didn't leave, but I know that only about 11:00 p.m. has been issued a statement, because the crowd of people and of those who came from this small number have left, so there was one number left that was considered a threat to this, so, for God's sake, three or four presidents that you solved because of the long-standing pension conditions. Here I was asked whether the executive power would remove its hands from the judiciary - so it will. If you read this law, definitely more executive power will not have the opportunity to do what was done before. Now let me tell you right now, I didn't want to use any of the powers that were, I mean the previous laws and they were given, and I guess it's clear to you that on the first day, we could put in a motion for a resolution and that the government would solve everything that was necessary. On the contrary, if I have a view that the provisions of the law are not valid and that they do not comply with the Constitution, be assured that I will never use them. Another issue has been asked which could be significant, which is the matter of the supervisory board. When you talk about multi-stageness, the Supervisory Board, if anything, puts forward a proposal to the Personal Council. So that organ that already exists as a really clean judicial organ. Therefore, there is no fear on that side either. The question of relations, it's being asked here, I mean the prosecution's relations, the prosecutor's office and the judge's. I have to tell you, not just because the deputy isn't a constitutional category, so he predicts, it's about something else. The courts are the bearers of the judge's office. Because of this unfortunate situation, we have been undermining the High Council of Justice and Prosecutors to protect against this possibility of abuse of the executive authority. Otherwise, these are law enforcement authorities, to a good extent, related to executive bodies. In the world you have a situation, I'm going to take a good example, let's say the Netherlands, which is a state of order, the minister of justice can necessarily give the prosecutor instructions, with the need to be transparent and to know the criteria, and there's one limit -- he can't be banned from chasing someone. Therefore, the different positions of prosecutors and courts are different. This is for us, in my opinion, even one step, because of this situation, forwards, to protect them. I believe that one day when we become a good and orderly country, without the possibility of influence, there may not be a need for them to be under the Council. Those are those remarks I recorded and tried to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2419	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic first reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2420	I'm sorry, one more thing to say, according to the Supreme Court's ruling, picking judges for violations is the discretionary right of the government. The election was made. These people tried a year and a few days, 50 and a few thousand cases were completed, a large number of sentences were imposed, I mean prison sentences, and a number of unselected led the dispute to the Supreme Court. The decision has been made and there you are right, but not to choose them, but the previous decision has been annulled for formal reasons. The Ministry of Justice and the Republic's Attorney-General refused to act and to deliver the case and the Supreme Court, without any other choice, annulled it. He says, we can't make an insight, and we don't know if the solution contains an explanation, which is the obligation. So it's back. This government had no other option, but to formally redecorate the choice because we can't cover that year and a half, because 50,000 people could turn around, say, pay the damage, some who didn't. All these people, we're going to try to find an opportunity, either for professional associates or, your competitions are already going from next week, and it's normal for us to have free hands and that we can really choose properly, that's my answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2421	On the basis of Article 94(2), I'm taking a break of up to 14.50 hours. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Ninth Session. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that by applying the electronic system in the O.R., there are 88 MPs present, we have a quorum to work on. The number of elected Members is 150. According to the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Ristic and Nemanja Sarovic came forward, but they are not there. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic (not here). The word has a national envoy, Dr Predrag Mijailović-Lune, and let National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would remind you all here, and those who were not in Parliament and who were in the previous assembly of Parliament, that, at the proposal of the Democratic Party of Serbia in 2001, laws on the High Council of Justice were passed; laws on judges and public prosecutors, which allowed judges and public prosecutors to be elected independently of politics and authority. With these laws for the first time since World War II, it was possible for courts to become independent and to have a crucial impact on the choice of judges and public prosecutors as a criterion of profession and morality. The DSS wanted these laws to achieve a goal - an independent judiciary, because everyone in the DSS is aware of the fact that without an independent judiciary it is impossible to build institutions in no state, not even us. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, too, without an independent judiciary, are impossible to fight corruption and crime. We are also aware that only in countries where we have a rule of law can we expect investments, because capital does not know the limits, but it knows the risk zones of investment and the safe investment zone. So when we build a legal state and build institutions, then there will be investments and new jobs. All other stories are in vain – that investments will come if we do not have a legal state, i.e. An independent judiciary. Unfortunately, in 2002 and 2003, when the Democratic Party of Serbia was persecuted in this parliament, immediately, thinking that they were consecrating themselves to the DSS, they rushed out of power to amend and supplement the law, returning these laws, not knowing that they were not consecrating themselves to the DSS, but to consecrate themselves to the people. That's why there was no investment. Conscious of the above, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of Justice, on judges and on public prosecutors by an urgent procedure, so that we can re-establish an independent judiciary. That is why I believe that no one in this House will vote against these amendments and the addition of the law, because it would vote against an independent judiciary, against building strong institutions, and what is most important, against investment. Which means the rule of law, as our King Petar First Karadjordjevic already knew when he sent, ladies and gentlemen, his adjutant to Oplenc, to tell his neighbour that he had ordered him to sell the vineyard. Adjutant leaves and calls the neighbor and says the king has ordered that he sell the vineyard to him. The peasant said, "You could order a king if it wasn't for the Topoli Court." As the adjutant returned, he told the old king what his neighbor had told him. He stood up and crossed himself and said, "Thank God, now I know that I have a legal state." That's the state the DSS wants. We in the Democratic Party of Serbia want to make a legal state before which all will be equal before God and the Court. That's why they must be equal to both the ruler and the people. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a new rule of law, safe, so new investments come in, so investors are safe to invest, and so that we can hire our people. This is what the new government, led by the DSS and Dr Vojislav Kostunica and expects the entire Serbia from the National Assembly. I hope you all vote for these amendments and bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2424	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2425	The previous chairman, Ms. Emilia Krstic, injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which said, Article 96, paragraph 3, which says, "To the envoy, or the president of the parliamentary group who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." Instead, Mrs Krstic gave the word to the minister, explaining that she did so on the basis of article 89, and that member regulates when and how many of the participants in the debate can be exposed. Secondly, a member of the 82nd was injured because after advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Ristic, an electronic system found that we do not have the necessary quorum to work. Afterwards, Ms Krstic, contrary to Article 82(5), which says: "If the electronic voting system is not in place, which is notified by the National Assembly, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs", asked the competent assembly services to come in and count the MPs without informing the National Assembly, meaning that the electronic system is not working. Afterwards, when a sufficient number of speakers was shown on the electronic system, it was found that there was a quorum. So does the electronic voting system work or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2426	As President of the Assembly, I am obliged to give you an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If I remember correctly, and we have the record, it is, that according to article 89, the chairman, Emilija Krstic, first gave the word to a member of the government - because he specifically says that the members of the government get the word when they ask for it and do not refer to restrictions on duration. So she acted on the Rules of Procedure. Also, when in the O.R., which is visible by camera, there are enough MPs, and that's not visible on the screen, obviously the system doesn't work. It's not like someone's lying and breaking their obligation not to be at work, not to put in a card. I don't think anyone's doing that. Accordingly, it is necessary to look for checks, because this Assembly has unpleasant experience with electronic voting, as you know. Please and future chairmanship, whatever the parties are from, that whenever they find themselves in that situation, it is better to check that there is no doubt. I hope you're satisfied with the explanation. If not, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2427	I am not pleased with the explanation given, and I reiterate Article 96, paragraph 3, which explicitly says to the president, or representative of the parliamentary group who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. So these are the provisions that regulate work when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot apply the provisions of Part Two of this Rules of Procedure, which regulate when and how much anyone has the right to speak. I do not dispute the right of the minister to come out after every speaker and respond to remarks, suggestions etc., but a specific member of the 96th regulates how it is done when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the word is given immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. Secondly, you did not explain what criteria Miss Krstic at one point found that the electronic voting system "does not work", and at another point, about 30 seconds later, found that the electronic voting system "worked". So this doesn't belong to her discretionary powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2428	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. If I understand you correctly, you are not satisfied with the explanation. Therefore, the procedure of the Rules of Procedure is known. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will be declared on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Committee that came into force in the Voting Day. Mr. Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I called you at the beginning of the afternoon session and you weren't there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2429	At the time, I responded to the Rules of Procedure, and since my colleague has made such remarks, I am now reporting by the right to the replica brought about by Mr. Minister. Since he presented a series of assessments in his presentation, one is untrue, which is to dispute the facts I raised behind this speaker, that Mrs. Leprechaun Karamarkovic was elected Serbian Supreme Court President even though she was not the Supreme Court of Serbia's judge. I must remind all those present that Mrs. Leprechaun Karamarkovic has been returned to court by repealing the decision on the termination of her judicial office, which is otherwise against the constitution, as was the annulment of the decision on the election of Kora Udovicki as governor of the NBS. That's the facts. Mrs. Leprechaun Karamarkovic, at a time when she was elected Supreme Court President, was not in the Supreme Court. On the other hand, there were objections that the meeting, organised by the Supreme Court president, along with the presidents of the district courts, included persons who had been suspended by law. "It was today that the judicial office of those on the list and on the proposal of the Great Personal Council and of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ended. "It is also incorrect that a very small number of court presidents have responded to the assessment of constitutionality and the adverse consequences of the proposed amendments to the judicial laws. Only three district court presidents did not report to the meeting, and all other district court presidents were present and unanimous in the assessment that it was a violation of judicial independence and independence. That this is a completely politically motivated action to subjugate the Serbian judiciary is also talking about Mr. Minister's exposure to this speaker, where he is waving the signatures of individual judges who are supporting him for such an act. You've shown a list of judges here, if I understand correctly. I allow myself to hear that and that I did not understand in the best way the Minister's presentation in that part, but I realized that he has a list of certain judges who support these changes in the judiciary. If I said something false or false, I apologize in advance. I'm not sure, and I have to leave that thing open. However, Mr. Minister's statement in the part where he calls for statements from late Prime Minister Djindjic, which were removed from the context, where the late prime minister's statements here are interpreted in a negative way, I think they are inappropriate when we talk about Mr. Djindjic, who lost his life and gave his life for Serbia's democratisation. I don't think there's room for this pay phone! Mr. Ristic, time. ) I would like to appeal to all those present to reduce the politicisation of this topic, because it is a really professional basis that means change in the justice system. I think that this is our life issue and that the citizens of Serbia are fundamentally interested in what kind of judgments will be, whether the processes will be completed in good time and whether justice will be timely and attainable. That's why I'm calling everyone back on the subject. There will be amendments. I expect that after careful analysis of the amendments, the Government may also respect some of these amendments and improve its legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2430	The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2431	I won't hold you back, but if Mrs. Karamarkovic wasn't a judge the moment she was elected president of the court, please just one explanation - who did you resolve this morning? As far as I know, Leprechaun Karamarkovic, the judge's office. If it wasn't, you couldn't solve it today. She was.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2432	The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, he came in the meantime, and let MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2433	Your Honor, I apologize, the Justice Committee lasted, so that's why I was late for this debate this afternoon. So, before us is this set of amendments and additions of law in the area of justice by emergency procedure, and I must say, there are good solutions. Unfortunately, according to style, writing and certain disorder, they do raise doubts that, in fact, behind these laws, and especially behind the law on judges, there is something that is pure politics, and that is to be carried out by the President of the Court by a simple provision of the law. I think it's terribly bad, because it's asking the question, whether any new ruling majority made in a year, two, three or four, is completely irrelevant, can pass one law on the amendments and additions to this law and re-determining that some judges, the presidents of the courts, cease their duty on the day of entry into force of that law. The problem is that we have a problem in the area of justice and with our judicial laws. It is certain that these laws that are now in force require certain interventions. We should all be together today and these interventions and carry out, without any doubt, without any shadow of political acuity. And it seems to me that the discussions, here in the morning part of the session, have increased the suspicion that it is some sort of political rematch. Someone's mistake, if there was one and there was one, is never an apology for a new mistake. If we stick to the principles contrary to this, we'll never get out of the circle of mistakes. It will multiply and we will come into an absurd situation in a quick time. The particular question is whether today's changes and additions to these judicial laws will change our situation in the judiciary. It's a condition that no one here is satisfied with. Could judgments, or litigation, be completed in less than 5, 10, 15, and even 20 years? Will someone be able to get the judge to make a verdict within eight days or will we wait for a verdict for two, three, six or eight months? It's not something that's been going on for the past two or three years, it's a condition that we've been pulling probably for the past 10 or 20 years. I think there's a key problem with our pajamas, and I don't think we're going to do anything with this set of amendments and additions to the law. The DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments in order to correct these laws, but I say immediately, we certainly will not vote for the proposed amendments and additions of these laws, if the ruling majority remains on a transitional provision concerning the removal of the President of the Courts; we still believe that such a provision is due to an irresponsible relationship both to the judiciary and to the state in general. We think it came from an irrational approach to politics and political inexperience. I think all these changes and additions could have been prepared more carefully. Therefore, again, in some ways I doubt the fundamental motive of the promoter. Let's say, we have in the existing laws a distinct illogicality. We have the attitudes of the law that begin in extreme grammatically incorrect. I'll only tell you one illogical thing from Article 13. The law on judges, and I can't believe she missed it, so she says, "the mandatory distance of the judge is decided by the President of the Court." There's no mandatory decision-making distance! The decision-making implies "disposition", the decision means "arbitrality". The mandatory distance is a solution. So, if someone had dealt with this judge law, they could have corrected a series of these mistakes that exist. If we're already talking about the independence of the judges and every ruling majority needs to step forward... Mr. President, it's awfully hard to talk, if you don't mind. I was an MP to the ruling majority, and I know that it's less -- more for the ruling majority to listen, because less -- they don't follow bill proposals anymore, but good. I think there is also a threat to the independence of the judges because of the possibility of sending a judge to another court contrary to his will, which is a member of the 18th existing Law. The reasons for this must exist, but I think that those amendments to the laws that happened over the past three years, referring to the possibility of an increase in wages, and even up to 75%, are enough instruments to always find enough volunteers from the judge's order to function in another court. One solution of the Supreme Court's president to refer to the judge, and 300km away, in another court may be a source of abuse. Fortunately, as far as I know, and I trust you, that doesn't happen. It would be good to pay a little more attention to this article in future changes. As for the provisions of the Amendments and the addition of the Law on Judges, I must say that a large number of these provisions, in my opinion, are far too high in this bill. That's where I thought first of all about Article 2. It's a bill of law. I find that the existing formula changes needlessly. To be honest, I think the best solution was in the merger of the previous formulation, which predicts that in the event of the court's suspension, the judge continues his duties in the court that has taken jurisdiction, and that this is subsidizedly indicated by what you have proposed. In that sense, there are certain amendments and we will discuss this more when there is a debate in particular. You know what, a series of those members I'm going to mention, and I'm mentioning them right now to explain why we're so sure that this law, and especially this law on judges, has only one task, which is that a legal provision should be carried out to replace the president of the courts. For example, Article 3 writes very complicatedly something that otherwise exists in the Law itself, that the judge can perform professional and scientific work, with compensation. Now three words are added, he says, "without anyone's approval." It's quite clear from the existing law. This -- without anyone's approval, that part doesn't sound legal to me, that part sounds "marketable," I don't think there was any need for that kind of thing. We've intervened here with the amendment and we're asking for one word to be deleted and for this thing to remain very simple. It's a thing of style or perhaps a need to create some content here, to cover what is the essence, and these are the transitional and final provisions. As far as internal control and the supervisory board are concerned, the idea is a good idea, and we felt that this topic needed to be discussed. A colleague, Bosko Ristic, has given extremely good amendments, so I hope he will come across the understanding of the majority. Through these amendments, the Supervisory Board will be able to put it into office and we can be sure that it will be carried out. Furthermore, we have made another proposal, which is, to increase, and to reigorize, to set the conditions for the election of judges, the first time they choose for the judge and for their internship. In fact, we find it very difficult for a young man, regardless of all knowledge and talent, that after a relatively modest practice in relation to the matter he has to process tomorrow and that it is very difficult for him to become a judge who should decide on the rights, obligations and freedom of some people for a short period of time. It takes a little more knowledge and a little more life experience and work experience. We gave that amendment and we'll talk about it when the amendments come. Article 8 is a good solution and here I am on the Committee on Justice withdrawing the amendment. It is very important that there can be no stalemate between the High Council of Justice and the National Assembly, by going "over here to the crowd", as the people would say, that is, the High Council of Justice would propose constantly to the same candidate whom the National Assembly would not accept. It is a good solution to Article 8 and I support and withdraw the amendment. As for Article 9, and also on the Justice Committee, I said, I don't think there's a single reason why the National Assembly should not be informed at the same time when the President of the Supreme Court to whom and when the conditions for retirement come, or for the completion of the working century. There is nothing wrong with the National Assembly knowing, or the Committee responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. A committee in charge of the affairs of the judiciary needs to have a picture of the old-fashioned structure of the judiciary in the state. It's nothing wrong, nor is it a threat to an independent court. It is good that the National Assembly is aware that it would not happen to someone in judicial institutions to possibly fail to initiate the procedure or to report that there are reasons for the termination of the judicial duty due to the completion of the working age. I don't know, I don't see why the National Assembly and the National Assembly's committee are eliminated from it. As for Article 10, I do not think that you are consistent until the end of your commitment to an independent judiciary, because you predict that instead of the Committee on Justice and Administration or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which elects judges, the process is being initiated by the competent minister. So, you are now proposing that the authority to initiate the procedure, when there are conditions for resolution or when there are conditions as a result of the completion of the working century, that the procedure be initiated by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. Why not the people, the National Assembly, or the competent committee of the National Assembly. It's just an initiative, not a mural decision. Nothing's going on. He doesn't send a National Assembly to retire directly. It can only return the initiative to the competent authorities in the justice system, that they discuss it. We don't need to give up some jurisdiction that none of us are asking us to give up. By this law, I think we're giving it up. Furthermore, if we are all in favour of an independent judiciary, we must keep an eye on it, and I will explain it later in another part of the discussion, that there are democratic procedures within the judiciary, that in every possible way within the judiciary, the creation of oligarchy, which I hope does not exist now, is the creation of oligarchy that will be controlled tomorrow by this judiciary, and that no one will be able to influence. One of the measures I have proposed, and I hope that this assembly will also support it, is that the presidents of the courts are elected within four years, but that they can be elected as presidents of the same court twice. There's a lot of judges, a lot of high-quality judges. You spend a man working in two terms one job and nothing hurts. There are other institutions where it's supposed to be, there's someone new, someone fresh, someone with new ideas. If this one is extra-quality again, he'll advance to the court of higher rank, so maybe there'll be a president there. Finally, we come to what we think is nevertheless, and I am very sorry, but I believe that by looking at this bill, I deeply believe that the only reason why we have today a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, a sort of political cleanup of a number of presidents, and this is done in a way that I find not adequate; it is done in such a way as to say to the Presidents of the Court, elected by the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the 2003 Law on Judges, that the office of the President of the Court of Justice for whom they have been elected ends. This is not a way to end the office of the President of the Court, and I think we will certainly have an assessment of the constitutionality of this provision before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We can get into a situation where the law passed by the National Assembly is again subject to the Constitutional Court's work. As for the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, on the very technique, the style of writing, the same objections stand for the Law on Judges. I don't think there's any difference. We've intervened through a series of amendments for these reasons. Let's just say, I'm just an example of why, I'd like you to look at Articles 12 and 20. - these members are so written, in those members, dots become marks, dots become dots, cartoons turn into two cartoons or I don't know how. I don't think that writing style and that writing technique is appropriate and appropriate to whoever did it is not appropriate to this home either. I think that all of this can be far simpler and better written and more receptive to the MPs of the National Assembly and, more at all, to say more receptibly to our profession. What we particularly want to draw your attention to is our proposal that the deputy public prosecutors have the same position as the public prosecutors do. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions continuity for public prosecutors. The deputy public prosecutors have no continuity, but are going to re-election after eight years. If we look at all the instruments that exist in the public prosecutor's system, starting with mandatory instructions, through the principle of devolving, the principles of substitution, and then starting with that there is a procedure for each of them both for judges and prosecutors, and also for the deputy public prosecutors, then we can ask the question - if someone is not right, if it is not a good deputy public prosecutor, a procedure for its resolution will be initiated. If he is a good prosecutor, then there is no need for us to let him tremble every seventh year, whether he will be elected next year, because it will depend on certain political games that can be held within the prosecution itself, above all, and perhaps even on the relation of some political insinuators, who will then happen in the Serbian Parliament. My proposal is, and I would like you to respect it, that the Deputy Attorney General's office will be permanent, because he will certainly do his duty better and more adequately. When we change the Constitution, the Constitution will determine how we'll even set up that whole system; whether there will be re-election or there won't be re-election with the judges, that's what we'll see. We have Croatia, Slovenia with some other solutions, and then we can talk about something else, but now that we're in this system, let's do a thing within this system so we don't put anyone in a subordinate position, there's no possibility of manipulation. Once again, you never allow us double time for discussion, even though you unite the laws. I don't think that's right, I think we allowed it. That's why I'm gonna speed it up. As regards Article 29, - Article 29 is directly unconstitutional. The D.A.'s office is permanent. This is Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The law, the provision, the law's position, can't predict whether they're out of function. There's a procedure to stop the public prosecutor's office. If you stay on this provision, which is likely, I ask you to accept the amendment to Article 28. Namely, if a public prosecutor is disciplined in the course of his work, i.e. the deputy public prosecutor, please, he is punished for the work he has done and he has had disciplinary action and that disciplinary measure he has endured. What kind of way is it that we are now passing the law and saying - well, whoever was once punished on that basis, that is, in the last year of the term of office, let's also take away the rights that arise from him by work. That can't do it! His rights stem from a working relationship, he has certain rights, because tomorrow he may be predicted to have someone abolished and maybe a pension. Please, this is the thing you need to change. Finally, as for the High Council of Justice, we proposed amendments and had a very interesting discussion on the Justice Committee. The thing is, if we have a legislative authority, and that's what we are here, this legislative authority is chosen by one democratic procedure that is known to everyone. We have executive power, and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there is a clear democratic procedure for the election. We have something that is the judicial authority and the highest authority of that judicial authority, such as the High Council of Justice. Since it will be completely independent, it must be within that judiciary that there are clear democratic procedures that will prevent any kind of esnafic circle, any kind of abuse, any kind of oligarchy in that system. That is why we believe that direct elections must be made by judges and prosecutors for office in the High Council of Justice. Because I don't have time to finish! I repeat, our parliamentary club will not support these laws, if the ruling majority remains, persists in these provisions that mean nothing more than a political shift, a political resemblance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2434	The People's MP Milan Stevovic has the word, and let the National MP Hranislav Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of these three laws in a slightly specific way, given that the debate is united. I'd like to withdraw the parallel between the Law on Judges, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the High Council of Justice. First of all, I'd like to point out the fact that terming and terming are mixed here. If we're talking about the Law on Courts, we need to talk about the term of independence of the courts and independence of the judges. If we're talking about the Public Prosecutor's Law, we need to talk about independence here. The independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office is laid down in Article 32. As regards independence under the Law on Courts, the law is provided for in Article 1. There are only certain cosmetic changes made by the government. We all know that the independence of the judge is one of the basic principles on which judges in the former regimes have tried and by which judges are now. We need these judges to provide conditions and technical solutions for them to be independent in their business. Those of the declarative stories have nothing, so, practically, we have to live it up. That's exactly the point of my discussion. As for the abolition of courts and prosecutors, I think the government's proposal is a better solution than the one we've been working on. I don't know how this is going to happen in practice, but in this case, I don't think it takes judges and public prosecutors to put up with a lot of suffering and suffering. Namely, the judges are guaranteed unmovableness. Also, in one part, this applies to prosecutors by applying a different rule to prosecutors, which is a rule of reference for 9 months in two calendar years. Such solutions may also need to be maintained in the law on judges. So the basic right to move from one place to another is every judge and every prosecutor, but with his explicit written consent. When we consider it then we must consider the following facts, it is: that no judge against his will, no prosecutor against his will, may, due to the termination of the need of that authority, where he has so far performed his duties, be transferred to another place. It's a good solution, but it's giving birth to some practical problems. In fact, we are in a position for individual judges to judge in the same place and in the same degree for years, which is why the question of their quality of work is also being raised. They are in some way demoted because there is no possibility of progress in the justice system and in the public prosecutor's office. There used to be a rank-list of values and the quality of judges. If we could get that back to the present level, maybe it would be a very good solution, to improve the situation in the judiciary. For these very reasons, moving forward in both the profession and the judges and prosecutors will contribute to the general quality of the judiciary as a single part and segment of our government. I advocate on behalf of the SRS for such legislative and legal solutions. When it comes to the duration of office, it's one thing if it's the judges and the other if it's the prosecutors. The deputy public prosecutor is limited to the period during which they can perform a public prosecutor's function. It's eight years old. Such a solution is not good. Why isn't it good? Because if we take article 15. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Office will show that the prosecutor has an obligation and a task to give specific instructions, and if we add to that the hierarchical relationship that the prosecutor is ruling in the prosecution, then the question is what will happen to the deputy public prosecutor who did not listen to his public prosecutor during the previous eight years. I believe he will be resolved, although he is professional, even though he is qualitative, even though he has held his opinion and his way of working. For these reasons, this solution is not good. When we talk about this problem, maybe we should think about it, and it's good to think about a whole other concept -- that all the deputy public prosecutors become prosecutors. And that prosecutors don't exist anymore than that there's a "main" prosecutor's institute. That chief prosecutor has the same responsibility as the public prosecutor. So it's the public prosecutor's responsibility for what they're doing. If they work well, they will be attributed to success in the business. But if they don't work very well, no one can get rid of the D.A. There's a disturbed system of values and a system of responsibility. For these reasons, I advocate a different concept solution - that the deputy public prosecutors be declared public prosecutors and that the public prosecutors be "the chief prosecutors". Then we introduce what they should be. So responsibility, because it's so parallel to the judge's law. There are judges, and there is analogy, there are judges and presidents of the court. When I talk about an election proposal, both judges and prosecutors, I do not agree that this is done by the High Council of Justice, but time will show whether the concept is correct or not. However, theoretically there is one possibility – that the choice is not adequate. Namely, if the judge's opinion is sought and the prosecutor's opinion is sought, people who have spent some time outside the judiciary may not be adequately evaluated. That's why it's very good for judges who get candidates from the board, from companies, from companies, from other areas to check in some way as much as anyone can and who can work. This will create equality between candidates, equality between those outside the judiciary and those within the justice system. And then only then will the High Council of Justice be able to make their own measuring assessment that – who is more worthy. I do not agree with the solution that the presidents of the courts and the public prosecutors are not from the company, from other areas, provided that they have spent a certain period of time within the judiciary. These are the leaders of which the entire system of functioning of the judiciary depends. So, if a public prosecutor is put out of business, and we have such solutions, and even for the district attorney, then the question of the purpose of the existence of public prosecutors and those who were in the judiciary is raised. A public prosecutor can become an excellent judge, who has tried for years and will no longer do so but will be a public prosecutor. Why don't you pick him? But on the other hand, we need to know that those who were good deputy public prosecutors, in that system of progress, can get a place as a public prosecutor. I'm not in favour of putting people who don't have days in the judiciary on the frontlines. Something the minister himself said about that. When we talk about the conceptal decisions of the Law on Courts, and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, I have to say something about the reason for the destruction. In both law and law, we have the first and second degree. In the case of the Court Act in the first degree, it is decided personally by the Supreme Court's nine judges. Circumstances shall be established and shall be decided accordingly. That's not the case with public prosecutors, it's decided by the Republic Public Prosecutor in the first degree. In the second degree, the judges are allowed to object to the General Session of all Supreme Court judges. So that's the second degree. And watch this with the public prosecutors, in the second degree, the High Council of Justice decides. We should be given an explanation of what this is about and why such a solution is given. I would like to draw particular attention to the procedure for the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court and the procedure for the resolution of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Here's why. The decision-making process by the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia is being launched and decided by the Great personal council, in the first degree, and in the second stage of the General Session. When we talk about the initiation of a procedure for the resolution of the Republic Public Prosecutor, it is initiated by the Minister for Justice Affairs, and in the second degree by the High Council of Justice. You need answers - which is why. Why should the Minister of Justice initiate a procedure for the resolution of the Republic Public Prosecutor? I have to look into it. The Republic's public prosecutor is a higher office than the minister of justice. You can see that by the prizes. If we are considering the matter of the salary of the Republic Public Prosecutor - the Republic Public Prosecutor cannot have a salary less than the Prime Minister. That's a comparison. In this case, the minister of justice or the minister of justice has the right to consider the senior official, decide and initiate certain proceedings. They're not good solutions, they're not adequate to what we all stand for in this House. I can't say that any of us here in the judiciary have bad intentions, but if we come up with bad solutions, that can be misunderstood. What I was going to say was, in terms of the Supervisory Board, time will show whether this institute is good or not, however, why don't we do something about the system of the "exemption" crisis. So there is one general crisis of the "exemption" institute, which is foreseen both in criminal proceedings and in litigation proceedings. The judge's exception is decided by the President of the Court. The President of the District Court shall decide on the exemption of the President of the Court of Justice, etc. However, this is not in practice implemented. I don't know when the judge got an exemption from the president, because the president doesn't want to admit a certain mistake and a certain blame to the authority he presides over. That's the exception crisis. According to this legal solution, there is a "crisis of oaths", an oath by the judge and the oath of a public prosecutor. Look at the text of the judge's oath - the judge swears by his honor that he will perform his duty, etc. You don't say, judge's duty, it's a strong failure. Who knows how many duties they have and if they swear before the President of the Assembly, or before the Assembly, the question is what it refers to. Next, I want to say a few more things, it's something I disagree with. We cannot generally talk about justice and generally talk about courts and public prosecutors, and even worse, condemning one and the other segments of the judiciary by bad work, bad treatment, etc. It's about individuals. If it's individuals, let's find this individual and eliminate him from performing a certain function, but let's not neglect a large and good part of the judges and prosecutors, the judicial functions, who are honorably and responsibly performing their duties. For these reasons, I do not agree with the provisions of the Law on Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia where a criminal offence is prescribed. Corruption in the judicial authorities in Article 225 d, no judge should have allowed it, no prosecutor should have allowed it. It was also necessary to hear their voice from this pay phone, to oppose how honest and honest judges can agree with that finding that there is a general conclusion of corruption in their area of affairs. I beg your pardon, this has been discussed so far in the context of the abuse of the official position of Article 242. The criminal law of Serbia, why don't we continue to do so, why we should generally condemn the judiciary. What will others think, when we talk about justice like this, because we can't just make laws for Europe. I agree, and for the sake of parallel law, but we must take care of the specificities that our judicial system carries. What do I mean when I say that? I'm talking precisely because every judge and every public prosecutor or deputy public prosecutor should at least be familiar with this proposal. I'm the first one I've taken and photographed, and I've met them. I didn't owe it, but I felt the need to at least be informed that the Assembly was discussing it. No one made one single remark from the interior, from Belgrade on this proposal, why we do it, as we write the law. Europe will laugh at us for this way. You have to first study the first degree, the second degree, the people who have worked and lived there for years, say whether or not they're doing well, so that they give their suggestions, so that we incorporate those suggestions into all of this that we're discussing, but maybe there was no time, and I understand that. We can't keep fixing certain laws, and we don't get any good laws all the time, so we're gonna do it a little bit to keep it going, and then we're gonna fix it later. Let's not play with a very important segment of power! I'm against it! I speak on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, but also on my own behalf. What would I stand for? Judges and public prosecutors do not need political praise for the values of these laws, they need a concrete solution. For these reasons, if we go from that premise, we have to write different laws. You said in the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, that they have a free vision of organization and association and we know that there are prosecutors' associations and we know that there are associations of judges, and no one has given us anything here today to read. Where are their opinions, why are they teaming up, who are they doing it to? I don't think these solutions are good, and everything needs to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2436	The word is given by the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Snježana Stojačić-Lakicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a package of laws that should fix the situation in the judiciary and the prosecution. I'll talk about the D.A.'s Law. The 1991 Prosecution Act was good. By amending this law in 2001, 2002, then in 2003, we received a law that did not produce results. A law like this never to happen again. By law of 1991, prosecutors were solely responsible to the Republic Public Prosecutor. When we were making changes to the law and we wanted to introduce an independent judiciary, then we introduced the judiciary to be independent and politically. Batic probably wanted to keep it all under control. But it was just his main weapon so he could mount criminal charges against SPS members who were in office, from local administration to the top of the state. Many criminal charges have been filed that could not pass in courts because they did not have enough evidence. In the first row, it was probably the goal of scaring people, and after the report was filed, the crisis headquarters and the parole -- you've got criminal charges, they've changed everything alive on the ground. There were great promises from Batic – reforms in the judiciary, an independent judiciary. This law, as it is now proposed, can be good, if applied in practice, but I am not much convinced that it will come to life, given that the laws we have passed outside the judiciary, nothing changes everything is the same. As the prosecution functioned in practice in the previous period, I'll bring it up on my case. At the time Banet Ivkovic was used to vote for DOS, MPs were tried to file as many criminal charges as possible, and then Bane reported that he was saving us in agreement with people from the top of the DOS. Then, at that time, a report was filed against me - that I had approved that the stove from the Camp for Displaced Faces, to the displaced person in private accommodation. The evicted person in a private accommodation was a militia officer who was deployed from Kosovo to a police station in Merošina. The manager of the Displaced Persons Center is my manager in the company, who along with the Red Cross, a stove that was damaged in transport and refused to be accepted by any displaced person in the camp, signed orderly papers and handed over to the displaced person in private accommodation. I didn't even know about it, nowhere, and nobody asked me about it. I'm not in the file anywhere, in the papers, and for the first time I've learned about this application from Banet Ivkovic, here in the Assembly, who promised to help me finish it with Vesic. I don't know, and I don't know where the D.A. found my name, to file a criminal report. I've been on the Administrative Board three times to resolve the establishment of immunity, although I have made a statement to the prosecution that I am not calling for immunity. The third time I've been to Tom's, I guess we're not going to the board of directors anymore. More interesting than all that is is a statement by fellow DS MPs on the Administrative Committee -- I cannot vote to establish the immunity of Periæ, as this is the 10-year sentence for this. The next day in "News" an article came out - Hranislav Peric took the stove from the displaced face from Vlasina. I've never been there. So I passed, when Batic's reforms were implemented, the law on an independent judiciary was applied in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2438	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojačić-Lakicevic, and let the MP Milica Gavrilovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2439	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, given that there is relatively little time left for the DS parliamentary group, I will focus only on certain objections that I have on the laws and again express my dissatisfaction that this large number of laws, a large number of significant laws speak in a united debate, only for a time, because it does not allow us to make all the remarks, bring out all that we would like to direct to the minister and to you and point to the failures that this law, in my opinion, have been made. First, I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice. Article 2 provides for an increase in the number of calls for two and for them to be prosecutors. We think that this provision is good, that it improves the High Council of Justice and certainly does not need to be changed. What's controversial is the fact that Article 3. The proposal deletes Article 2 which, in fact, calls into question the composition of the other callers, as it is in some way impossible for all judges to be represented in its composition, and in fact the monopoly of the Supreme Court Judges, who can only be members of the High Council of Justice. We believe that this provision is not good, but that it is competitively placed solely for one reason, which is at the insistence of the Supreme Court judges. What are we coming up with now? We come to the fact that the High Council is now numbering seven Supreme Court judges. Big personal council, nine Supreme Court judges. Supervisory board, five Supreme Court judges. The High Council appoints and promotes. I remind you that the Great personal council determines the reasons for the resolution and retirement, and the Supervisory Board is initiating the procedure. It's all done exclusively by the Supreme Court Judges! Indeed, here is the basic principle of representation and territorial, but also the representation of judges at all stages of the judiciary. The special objection is the fact that there is an unconstitutional provision in the bill, that new members of the High Council are elected within 30 days, which is a major question of the constitutionality of this law, because the basic principles and basic principles on which our Constitution rests are violated. I'd like to ask you to intervene if the intruders are tasteless. (Chairman: Please allow the MP to present himself.) ) The provision of Article 15(2) lays down that the Presidents of the Courts elected under the Law of 2003 cease the duties of the President of the Court for which they were elected and do not agree with the principles on the timely validity of the Law and the legal action of the National Assembly. Retroactive depravation of facts by congregation decisions opens incomprehensible consequences for the constitutionality and legality of this country. The consequences of the term of office of the president are irrevocable. Essentially, Article 15(2). The proposal means a discharge from the duties of the President of the Courts, and for that, the law and the Constitution are prescribed. The adoption of this provision would mean, at the same time, the adoption of individual acts with a resolution outside of the procedure, the direct application of the law, which is inadmissible, both from the point of view of the domestic legal system and from 26.12.2003, I will remind you of Mr Minister, the ratified European Convention on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, with deposited ratification documents from 3 March 2004 and the obligations that the State has made with regard to Article 10. Constitutional Charters and Article 4. Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. What is particularly interesting is the fact that this law is adopted by an urgent procedure and that the transitional and final provisions explicitly state that one day after the publication takes effect. We don't understand such an urgency in this law that is extremely significant, that it has even interfered with the mind to consult the most judicial institutions in our country, because that is why these failures could probably be removed. What is particularly interesting is the fact that, if proceedings were to be brought before the Constitutional Court, you know for a fact that the Constitutional Court's decision, which would have made this provision, and it is absolutely certain that it would, in fact, declare it unconstitutional, have no legal fact whatsoever, because, as you know, the Constitutional Court's decision cannot have a retroactive fact on individual acts, which means that those who have been re-elected, although previously resolved by an anti-constitutional decision, remain in office. A very serious remark and the fact that in these laws, it was certainly not about the interests of the judiciary, but rather about the expectations of its own party and the policies that it wants to implement at the moment. It's impossible not to draw any conclusions as to what this is all about today. It is obvious that the entire judiciary is being transferred to the Supreme Court in Belgrade and thus complete control of judicial functions and justice in Serbia. The length of the court president's mandate is reduced, which means that all judges elected in 2001 are rapidly reaching a change, provisions for the independence of judges are being strengthened. The message is - to spread everything, to change everything, to set up your own and protect them by law for whose change we will probably have to wait enough time. I really ask all MPs to think this through, because none of us are in the interest of such politicisation of Serbia's judiciary and judiciary at this time. I am particularly speaking to the G17 Plus MPs, who have already, I am quite certain, settled on the proposal and voted in favour of a law on the assistance of The Hague indictees. You were authorized promoters, and whether one of you voted or not, I really can't count it when it was tampered with, nor is it my job, but I certainly know that one of the promoters was Mr. Paunovic. Of course, I'd like to ask you to consider not to allow such provisions of this law to be passed, because it certainly comes to all of us. As a member of the Civil League of Serbia... (uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu) is not like the congregation, so whoever they come from. I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman to give his notice. Today, the minister told the speaker that a law is being introduced into Europe. Today, the minister told this speaker that we are making a law that will improve the judiciary. I repeat, as a member of the Civil Union of Serbia, I have an obligation to say that Mr. Minister during his duties as judge, the man who last ruled against a book. I was able to find one that, although the decision was to burn all the books, was preserved. We found it in the National Library and the University Library. I'll set you up. It's about the book of Heavenly Popes "Contrafatum." The verdict was: the book should be burned, and then, when it was confirmed by this verdict, Mr. Minister was given the opportunity to judge in a very important court procedure. Of course, he was the president of the court council in 1985 in the trial against the "Belgrade Six", or group of dissidents at the time. The topic is completely up-to-date, as it speaks of the fact that, while the minister was a judge, he was not tried by law, but in line with the expectations of the party and the policy, which is now, while the law is being proposed. [[Tossing from O.R.: Theme.]] (Chairman: Please return to topic. ) The argument explains that they are "convicted for establishing an illegal union and unpublished texts. They were blamed from 1982 to 1984 for reading their texts and verbally, in front of a number of persons, at illegal meetings in private apartments, which they organised, where the defendants falsely depicted the liquids of our People's Liberation Fights and Socialist Construction and the role of the KPJ and its leadership and personality and the work of SFRY President Josip Broz Tito," said, among other things, in the verdict of Minister Zoran Stojkovic. Today, Mr. Secretary said that he could not be held accountable for his opinion. His judgment and today’s suggestions speak the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2440	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2441	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Stojacic, I must speak to you personally about all this stuff you've been saying. The eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was almost completed. Another 8th session, apparently, never ends. The one where your political fathers and mentors may have lost, I don't even remember, and I don't care. But don't burden this home with some stories from the '70s and '80s, so we don't get to Heaven's Popes and his political thinkers and like-mindeds. No more "out of the blue" time, no more "The Dove," the "Ticks" have blossomed. Let's take this Serbia forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2442	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, authorised representative of the G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2443	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 97, position 2 of the Members of Parliament has spoken in one incorrect way about G17 plus. Namely, it's about the law on the rights of the Hague indictees. I don't know which one of these monitors anyone was looking at, but the G17 plus didn't vote for that law. Therefore, it is incorrect that G17 plus voted in favour of The Hague indictees' Law. If you put it back on, you wouldn't vote for it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2444	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2445	I was mentioned. Maybe G17 plus didn't vote for the law then, but today he voted against putting on the agenda of the Vojvodina Assembly's decision to put the law in question out of force. So, again, I don't suppose you've gone out to meet your voters, who certainly didn't vote for you to vote for today, all the good news is that the Constitutional Court's decision puts them off the table, so that we'll have an obligation from now on to help the families of the Hague indictees. (A voice from the O.R.: Where are your voters? ) Don't worry, our voters will be counted very soon after the presidential elections and the victory of Mr Tadic on them. My dear colleague from Novi Sad, it's not about the pumpkins. It's a serious career of a judge they say was indeed an elite judge. I don't want to get into it, because I trust the people who told me about it. You know, it's hard to say whether more damage is done to society by ignorant people in responsible functions or by knowledge that has no consciousness and proper credibility to respect and behave accordingly. Certain things in the biography can't be deleted from any of us. We must carry them responsibly and consciously, however difficult that burden is. This burden is difficult, Mr. Minister must carry it, and you cannot defend it from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2446	Replication and we're done here, because the answer is on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2447	Ladies and gentlemen, once again to put it back on the agenda, we would never vote for it again. Secondly, we kept saying he was against the Constitution, which was confirmed on this occasion! As for the Vojvodina Assembly's proposal to amend some legislation, laws are passed and changed in the Serbian Parliament. We'll bring them here and change them or we won't bring them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2448	The word has a folk MP, Milica Gavrilovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to say that the government of Mr. Kostunica is working hard and hasty. We can also see that based on these laws, based on these proposals that the Ministry is proposing to us today. Let me remind you, it's about six laws that have been in the process so far. The first law provides for the possibility for court employees' salaries to increase. This set of laws provides for the judiciary to gain full independence and full independence. As someone who comes from the judiciary, I can't help but say that I am very pleased with this newspaper, which was introduced in the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Choice of Judges. In particular, it's about the board of directors. We now have the possibility that each party in the proceedings has the right to appeal to the Supervisory Board, which is composed of five Supreme Court judges and to take the case under consideration. If it considers that a particular judge has not acted, professionally, securely or up-to-date, it shall have the right to initiate the discharge procedure. I hope these provisions will also be easily feasible in practice. Of course, our citizens are rightly protesting. Civil law disputes last 10, 15 and 20 years, as someone who spent four years in two Belgrade municipal courts, I can say that this is, unfortunately, not an exception, but a rule. By introducing this newspaper, we will have a situation that judges will act much more up-to-date, and I am primarily speaking about those judges who have not acted on time, and I must say that there are judges who have done their job with great honor, urgency and security. This is what I'm saying about the one whose number is small. The other important newspaper provided for by this law is the choice of judges. So far, we've had a situation for a judge to be elected and a candidate who's never been proposed by the High Council of Justice. Now it's no rule. We now have a situation where an extremely narrow professional body, such as the High Council of Justice, proposes to the National Assembly the choice of judges. Once the members of the Justice Committee, whose member I am today, had the absolute right to propose judges, and, of course, we came at the right time and brought their choice into doubt. So we came to the situation that the President of the Supreme Court Sonja Brkic was elected, and at the time she was judge of the municipal court and had never tried in the district court without saying that she had never tried in the Supreme Court, nor had she had experience. That's why, of course, she was under the appeal of the expert public. As important as the Committee on Justice has been in this congregation, one fact can be confirmed. In April 2002, the Great personal council submitted a request for the resolution of the judge of the District Court in Nis, precisely because one of the alternative conditions had been met, and it was the completion of the insurance standing, namely, she had 40 years of insurance training. It was legally one of the conditions for her resolution. In a very strange way, this pedmet came to the Justice Committee, but never this point was put on the agenda, nor did the Justice Committee take its stand on it, nor did the National Assembly decide on it. And to make things even weirder, the subject is, under the circumstances, archived. He's gone. When we came to power and became a member of the Justice Committee together with our colleagues, we somehow got to that case and we saw what it was, so to prevent this continuation of further work, someone will have to bear responsibility for this, and whoever I don't want to prejudge, the matter will probably be initiated by some state authority. The public prosecutor's office as a judicial authority and a judicial authority under the current law is absolutely subordinated to the executive authority. So, the government, in particular, has taken away every form of independence from the prosecution, and it proposes to appoint, or appoint and resolve the deputy public prosecutors, suggests a choice of public prosecutors. We can't talk absolutely about prosecutors having any kind of independence. That is, unfortunately, not even in Tito's time, as Mr. Minister said, and not even at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. This was also the reason for the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of certain provisions of this law. I want to show you on one provision as right as I am, and that's the Republic Public Prosecutor. For example, the procedure for his resolution is in motion, so if he believes that the minister of justice did not properly assess the reasons for his resolution, he has the right to object. The complaint is submitted to the Government. Imagine, it is submitted to the government whose member is the minister of justice who initiated the procedure for its resolution. Isn't that absurd? I'll show you on another plastic case from practice just how much the prosecution is under direct control of the government. A criminal report against, we all know, Mr Zoran Janjusevic, has arrived in one of Belgrade's municipal public prosecutors. It stood for a long time, and no one touched it. At one point, a courageous and professional deputy public prosecutor came up with the idea, when he found out, to initiate a court case and filed a request for an investigation. Mr. Janjusevic did not appear before the court, he was gone, he was not known to the state authorities, and the police had no idea where he was. When legal conditions for determining detention have been obtained, the deputy public prosecutor suggests that the judge be ordered to be held in custody. The coroner agrees with that, and that's when the problem arises. Police are being ordered to search for a certain Mr Janjusevic. At that moment, the deputy deputy prosecutor's chief of staff is ordered to suspend any search and that Mr. Janjusevic will report to the investigating judge. That's right. It has not been half an hour, Mr Janjusevic was in the office of an investigative judge of a Belgrade municipal court. What does this mean, dear gentlemen? This means that the government gives itself so much rights that it can decide whether or not someone will be arrested and who will be brought to justice at all. Mr. Vojislav Kostunica's government, with this bill, returns full independence to the prosecution, precisely because it foresees proposing candidates, and the only professional body for this is the High Council of Justice, and of course the National Assembly elects it. We can't change that, because it's a constitutional category. The happiest would be if they didn't choose prosecutors, but it exists under the Constitution. In this way, the public prosecutor's office's institutions are being completely depolitized. The current Law provides for one of the lowest possible conditions for the deputy municipal public prosecutor to be elected, i.e. under the current Law to be appointed. It's just a condition that predicts he's got a year's work experience. Of course, each of us finds that strange, and we all ask ourselves, ‘ Why is it so small and low a condition that someone is appointed? ’ We may find the answer in fact if we go back a little bit, so we see that the secretary of the former, and now, thank God, former Justice Minister Mr Batic, a certain Bruno Vekaric, was named after a very little work experience as deputy district attorney, and after that he was immediately appointed as the spokesman for the Special Department of the District Public War Crimes Prosecution, in which he received, or today, about 200,000 dinars of wages! So, 200,000 dinars receive pay, and the judge and we MPs receive only 26,000 dinars! I don't know, in the end, if it's even good to talk about it today. If the former government thought the law should be changed in order for individuals of the former regime to be financially secured, the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica certainly has no intention. That's exactly why he's proposing changes like this. Of course, what I've been talking about so far would make absolutely no sense if there wasn't an institution of the High Council of Justice with such changes proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Of course, it is a special judicial body of the expert nature of the republic's rank, which proposes to the National Assembly the choice of the president of the courts and the choice of judges and public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. I want to remind you, we now have a legal gap in the current legal text, because you don't know who chooses the presidents of the courts. Namely, the Constitutional Court has declared this issue unconstitutional, so that earlier issues of the judicial administration no longer exist, because it is an unconstitutional category. We must adopt this bill in order to overcome this situation. On the other hand, I will repeat, the government, in any case, appoints and resolves the prosecutor's deputies, or proposes to elect public prosecutors. I'm talking again about how much the prosecution is under direct control of the government. The High Council of Justice, which was and which, if passed, would be drawn up by the prosecutors themselves. For this reason, their choice will have much more importance and will be more professional, surely it is undeniable, than it is now. As citizens have so far been able to see, the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica has fulfilled all pre-election promises. It introduces order to state institutions, restricts authorities, just the other day, the passed Law on conflict of interest, and limits us in this, both ministers and all other officials, because of course the judiciary returns its deserved independence and independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2450	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to a colleague, the government of President Vojislav Kostunica has fulfilled its pre-election promise. It's true that this is, as you say, the third set of judicial laws, but let's see first what was in these two previous ones. The first set of judicial laws had three laws and four members and only provided for a delay in the fact that some provisions for 2007. A second set of judicial laws, which also had only a few members, envisioned inclusion in some way in the distribution of 50% of funds charged by court fees, including judicial staff and, as you say, conditions were created to increase the salaries of judicial employees. I'm asking you now, because even when this law was debated, I told you that it would not affect the position of the employees, and the employees believed it. After that, I talked to people who work in courts. So, it has been said that there will be an increase in the salaries of professional associates to 27-28,000 dinars, that judges in the municipal court will have 45,000 dinars, that dactylographs and others will also be a major increase. I would ask that the minister specifically tell us how much money is being charged and how much salary increases judicial employees are planning. I think that these laws have changed a little bit, and what characterises all these laws is that you've told us about everyone -- this is the first step, this is the first step, and the next time we regulate it, and the next time the same law is on the agenda, we'll do it comprehensively, we'll just do it right. I don't see why we should wait and why things that don't work out don't work out right now, and I have to say that the SRS has not submitted amendments to the proposal on these three laws that we are discussing today for reasons why we have a completely different concept position and we felt that amendments are not possible to correct the proposed provisions. I'll try briefly to explain what's wrong with these laws through those things that concern practice. For one thing, Article 11(2). The law on judges says that if the court is suspended, the judge continues his duties in the same court of law, the same degree or approximately the same rank. I ask you what the meaning of the same rank means and how will this be interpreted? Is the municipal court approximately the same rank as the county? That's exactly one rank next to the other. What's he thinking? If the municipal court is suspended, will someone cross over to the county or if the district court is suspended somewhere? This is just inadmissible. When a law is passed, especially laws whose nature is this sensitive, if we want to guarantee the judges constitutionality, then we cannot say in the law "approximately the same rank. "It must be known in advance which court will pass. Article 27 provides that a judge may, without any authorisation, engage in scientific or professional activities, in addition to compensation, even though the first position of the same member says that the judge cannot be on duty in the bodies which adopt or enforce regulations, be a member of the political party, engage in any public or private paid work, or provide legal services or advice with compensation. So, directly, the new position you're proposing is the opposite of Article 27's first position. The law on judges. The question is, what is the judge's professional action? I think it's a trial, that it's a practice of law. It is inadmissible to allow judges to deal with compensation with their profession. This is the legalization of corruption in the judiciary that you're talking about so much. You don't have to criticize the judges that much. The vast majority of judges do their job in quality and honor. I don't think it's a good idea for the Justice Minister to be so critical of the judiciary, and we from the opposition have to defend the judges. As far as scientific action is concerned, it is certainly necessary to allow judges to deal with it, but I also think it is necessary for a judge who deals with professional activity, with compensation, to inform the President of the Court of Justice. As regards the former member, Article 28 is not proposed to amend, but should oblige the judge to notify the President of the Court of Justice of any further work he is working on, and to allow him to consider in advance whether or not something is incompatible, to decide in advance and only then on those matters he thinks may be incompatible with the President of the Court and to continue to report this to the High Council of Justice. More instance should be decided, but in such cases there must be an obligation for the judge to make any action he does alongside his judge-in-Office. As far as the judges' salary is concerned, if we are already talking about salaries, no change is foreseen, but it must be borne in mind that some courts in Serbia are overloaded and that they have seven, eight or ten times more cases than some other judges. I don't think it's enough that this provision is supposed to increase the salary of a particular judge by 20%, because I'm saying it's not the same if you're entrusted with 30 cases or if you're entrusted with 300 cases. It'd be better if a rock was made, then it'd be for example. If a particular judge is in charge of three times the number of cases than the average in the Republic increases the salary by a certain percentage, if he is in charge with five times or ten times the number of cases above the average in the Republic, he also predicts for a predetermined percentage. As for Article 41, which determines how much practice it takes for someone to be elected judge of the municipal, commercial, county court, after a judicial examination, I have to say that there is one big difference that is being considered whether or not someone who has been elected as a judge has worked in the judiciary, whether or not he has prepared for it. Even when it comes to passing a judicial exam. A longer internship for non-judicial persons has been provided. It is simply unacceptable for someone working in an economy, or outside the judiciary, to compete under the same conditions with those who devote part of their lives, work in the judiciary, work in court, and as trainees, and as professional associates. I remind you that the salary of an expert associate, somewhere, is about 14,000 and you are asking people to work in the judiciary for a certain number of years after passing a judicial exam, that could be five years, ten years, for an extremely small salary. On the other hand, people who work in the economy for good wages without a day's experience in court will also be elected president of the municipal, county, etc. Secondly, it is necessary to predict that someone, if they want to be elected president of the district court, spends at least some time as judge of the municipal court. It can't be someone who never went into court to get into the county court and do his duty properly. I'm sure the minister will agree. It happened in practice for someone to reach the Supreme Court judge without making any measurement decisions in his career. You also know very well. Some have worked as investigative judges, and then the presidents of the courts, progressed, made progress, came to the Supreme Court judge and made no measuring decision in their careers. That's not good. Article 44 states that candidates coming from courts are required to be given the opinion of the "session of the judge of the court from which the candidate comes". First of all, what's wrong is what happens to people who come from the judiciary and those who don't come, no opinion is being obtained, and then you're even better off not coming from the judiciary. No one's gonna talk about what kind of man you are. Whether you're worthy or not. Secondly, if an opinion is given to the College, it is necessary to know what it usually means. When a college gives an opinion, it is most often done on the basis of personal affinities. Especially in larger courts, which have between 50 and 80 judges. One judge, practically, and he doesn't know the other, nor is he referred in any way to his work. So, the judge who works in the department of labour disputes neither gets reports, nor knows the quality of the decisions of a judge who works in a criminal department or in a litigator. In practice, then, it happens to vote for people who hang out more, who have had more coffee and who are more likable to someone, not people who do their job well and quality. Some objective criteria had to be included here. So the number of complaints, the number of decisions made, the number of confirmed, means some objective criterion. It is also not good that the length of the internship is foreseen as one of the criteria, because the criterion could only be taken into account if it is two judges who have the same professional quality, and in that case one who has a longer internship may have an advantage. As far as Article 56 is concerned. - The bill introduces the minister responsible for the judiciary, who is empowered to initiate a procedure in which the completion of the working century is determined, and I would remind you that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges of July 2002, published in the Official Messenger No. 42/2002. means that the words have already been added in paragraph 2 – the minister responsible for the judiciary and that by the Constitutional Court Decision no. 17/2003. found that, among other things, the provisions of this Article 13 are unconstitutional. Why would we once declare something unconstitutional and once again wait a year or a year and a half for the Constitutional Court to make the same decision? As far as Article 63 is concerned, it is not clear why it is required to delete Article 2. I think he should stay. It's about the way the judge's duties are stopped because of the completion of the working century. In this area, it should be assumed that, if a certain deadline is passed, the law itself should, for example, be imposed. For 60 days, predict that someone will cease to be a judge, so that there will be no abuse. We had one abuse, today we were discussing Mrs. Verica Stamenkovic, who for more than two years, after fulfilling all the conditions, I think from Article 42 of this law, had to be resolved, had to retire, had to perform that function. So that's not what we'd suggest if this member stayed. Regarding this law, Article 66 provides that the president of the court is to be elected among judges for a period of four years and may be re-elected. In some ways, it was necessary to limit the number of terms of office, as far as the President of the Court can be chosen, because in this way we can get into a situation i.e. It's not good for someone to be elected President of the Court a few times. Also, what is not good is not foreseen for someone to be elected president of the court to spend some time in office as judge. Once again, we will have a situation where someone directly, meaning someone who does not come from the judiciary, is chosen simultaneously for both the judge and the president of the court. The general opinion is that such a thing is not good and that it should simply be prevented. As regards the Law on the High Council of Justice, firstly it is controversial – a member elected by the National Assembly says in the law – a prominent lawyer. What are these criteria? And here we had to anticipate some objective criteria, to see who might be considered a prominent lawyer. So that we don't get into a situation tomorrow so that a prominent lawyer can be an example of us. Vladan Batic. He is a lawyer, he is prominent, but he did not stand out for quality work in the judiciary. Tomorrow, for example, will Mrs. Vucho be declared a prominent lawyer? That's absurd. Give us some firmer criteria, so we know who the prominent lawyer is. Article 12(2), where there is also an irregularity, and I think that this position should be, when the issue of which concerns judges, that the narrow composition is made up of permanent members and members of the judge, and when the issue concerns public prosecutors and their deputies, that the narrow composition is made up of permanent members and members of the public prosecutors. The public prosecutor's law, therefore, exists as, firstly, principled objections. And we also think that the deputy public prosecutors should be permanent. It means that their function is constant. The question arises, and we have not received a clear explanation, why they are subject to re-election every eight years. A better solution would be for the prosecutor to submit to the re-election and for deputies to be permanent and for their work to be evaluated in a different way. If someone as a deputy public prosecutor is not doing well, there is a resolution facility and there are reasons why someone is being resolved - unless his duty has been done in accordance with the law, unless he has respected mandatory instructions, etc. In this way, the resolution institution is simply replaced by the re-election institution. It doesn't take the deputy prosecutors to tremble in front of the reelection. These people need to be able to do their job for a long time, to be stable, to think only about the profession. I don't see any other way that people, who aren't overpaid anyway, would allow themselves to devote their lives to judicial work. If you cut someone every three years, or four, or seven, or so, when the congregation majority changes, it certainly isn't good. Article 57 does not provide for an amendment but, in accordance with the law on judges, should provide for a longer internship for persons who come to the place of deputy public prosecutor rather than competing from the judiciary. One more thing, in Article 81(2) of the deputy public prosecutor who is not elected, according to the provisions of this law, if he is disciplined during the previous term, all labour-based rights cease! This provision is certainly inadmissible. What does that mean – is someone disciplined or not in the course of his previous term? So, when a disciplinary procedure is conducted, it is natural that the procedure determines whether someone has violated their work obligations, and what kind of injury it was. If it is estimated that someone can continue to perform their duties, it is unacceptable that we punish these people by this law and in this way take away their labour rights. So you can't deny someone six salaries without conducting a new disciplinary procedure. It would be just like if a company you're closing said had no right to severance, that is, on the social programme of the one who was disciplined. It's just inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2452	According to the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Ristic. Let MP Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2453	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 97. Rules of Procedure and Rule 99. The Rules of Procedure, because article 99 says a rumor can't talk about what's not on the agenda. So it's just a matter that's on the agenda that he can talk about. I'm requesting the right to replica by article 97, so I'd like to reunite three minutes, and it'll be one exposure. There have been talk of the resolutions of individual court presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2454	I beg your pardon, Mr. Ristic, I ask by Article 99 that MPs do not receive, especially if they are not present here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2455	So, during the debate, it has been mentioned repeatedly that Mrs Verica Stamenkovic has been acting illegally for two years as the president of the district court...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2456	Excuse me, Mr. Ristic, you say the 97th so we can unite and both be three minutes, like you asked, did you say? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2457	I want to say again that my words from the discussion have been incorrectly interpreted, because I informed the National Assembly that Mrs Verica Stamenkovic asked for an assessment of the constitutionality, which is precisely the decision of the Great Personal Council, because she believes that the right to work has been violated. Since all other employees have the right to work up to 65 years of age, it is, in April 22, two days old, or a full-age retirement age, and it is believed that it has been resolved two days before 65 years of age, that its constitutional right has been violated. I would also like to say that in the light of the advocacy that this case stood in a magical way in the Justice Committee, that they should be the same arches for all. The case of Mrs. Leprechaun Karamarkovic, who resigned in March of last year, was also resolved today. The question arises as to what this lady was doing in the Supreme Court when she resigned in March of last year and no longer came to work one day, nor did she take any subject to solve. Otherwise, this speaker should be told the truth, especially when it comes to the minister of justice. He said one notorious lie that at yesterday's meeting there were 15 court presidents and that more than half had not come. I received a reaction from the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs Sonja Brkic, who said that at yesterday's meeting, all the presidents of the district courts were present, except for three presidents, and that they unanimously adopted a press release sent to the Serbian and media governments and the OSCE and the assembly committees with a request and a request that these laws be withdrawn from the procedure. Otherwise, with regard to the proposal to delete Article 79a from the existing Law on Judges, I will speak in particular, and I think it is an interesting thing, as the basis for the resolution is deleted, participation in politically mounted processes and in processes where the electoral will of citizens has ceased. I think the minister of justice here wanted to wash his biography.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2458	Replica, Mr. Sarovic. Once again, I ask all MPs who are not here not to receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2459	When I mentioned Mrs. Verica Stamenkovic, I mentioned it not because I did not speak about what is on the agenda, but just by setting an example of what, so the provisions of this law can lead to any abuses. It is now clear that this is an abuse, and I will now say that the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee is in the period when this case of Ms. Verice Stamenkovic arrived on the agenda, that is, when he was due to arrive, because he did not arrive, the case has been archived, means no signature and no knowledge, and it is obvious that it is an abuse. Secondly, I did not say that the lady was illegally working, but I said that what she was doing, what she was in a working relationship was not in accordance with the Law on Judges because, a member of the 52nd says the judge stops working age when he turns 65 or 40 years of employment. So it's alternatively set, or – or. The lady turned 40 years old, acted for the next two years. So, it couldn't have been corrected differently, and the Justice Committee didn't decide that it was resolved retroactively, so maybe you would have done that, because she was acting as president of the court in pretenses and she's a member of the KV council. So if we had resolved it retroactively two years ago, it would have produced much more serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2460	The People's MP Bojan Kekic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2461	Dear fellow Members, the principle of power-sharing is clearly defined by Article 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the legislative authority belongs to the National Assembly, the executive power to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the judicial authority to the courts. The overall foothold in the amendments and additions to this law and to all the laws that are on the agenda today, which are the Law on the High Council of Justice, on the Public Prosecutor's Office and on the Judges, shall have, above all, a foothold in the Constitution and in Article 72(1) and point 12, in Article 12. From 95 to 106, they have a basic task of ensuring greater independence, independence of courts. Surely these changes and additions promote what it is, which is that the judicial authority belongs to the courts. The newspaper in this law and these laws is primarily the introduction of a supervisory board, the bodies for the internal control of courts. It is made up of judges and thus the development of the Supervisory Board and its powers, which is that according to the complaint or self-initiative, which is very important, it can be carried out to control judicial cases, but in essence it is possible to impose a disciplinary measure on its colleagues, given that it is the Esnafian Supervisory Board, if I may say so, represents, first of all, the basic principle that the judicial authority is returned to the courts. What we are considering in the SPS is the result of amendments submitted to Article 2 and Article 3. The Law on the High Council of Justice puts us in a situation where, nevertheless, the solution offered by the Government of Serbia and by the Minister, and primarily by the invitation members, respecting the relation of the judges and prosecutors, particularly by the judges at the meeting in the permanent composition, and when it comes to issues of judges, where five persons are predetermined, and when it comes to the invitation members, which are judges chosen by the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to public prosecutors, and when it comes to two, we tried to give the amendment a solution that there are, when it comes to issues concerning the prosecution, four members of the prosecutor's office. So, one member elected by the deputies of the Republic Public Prosecutor, one of the members elected by the district attorneys at their sessions. These two other members, i.e. the members we have provided for by the amendment, should be elected at the meeting of the municipal public prosecutors. On this occasion, just because we think that this solution may be more concrete, we think it is more celery, however, I am announcing the withdrawal of these amendments by tomorrow, we will also do it in writing, so that, in essence, it is certainly a general concept that both the Minsiter and the Government of the Republic of Serbia advocates. I suggest we withdraw the amendment. We'll do it in writing. I believe that the law package, first of all, respect for the institutions, that respect for division and the principle of division of power, is that the courts finally return to the judges, and the essential thing is that the judges be independent in their function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2462	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and let the MP Vojkan Tomic be prepared. Mr. Radosavljevic, just for the sake of correctness, from your list, has a total of five minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the motion for this law continues one established practice launched by the finance minister, that, before proposing laws, one public debate, especially on such important laws as this law package in the area of the judiciary, is not being consulted. We've had a chance to see what it's like in the last few hours, when the waist gives its opinion on why it's been left out and why it hasn't wondered about such laws. I say once again, this model was installed by the Minsiter of Finance, and now it continues, unfortunately, and the Registrar of Justice. I wish that practice would stop very quickly. What do these laws bring? Let's take it in a row. The proposal for a law on the High Council of Justice is passed, as the proposer says, in order to increase the powers of the High Council of Justice with the premise that the body is made exclusively by legal experts. I don't know who's been doing this body so far, if it's some other experts who aren't in the field of law, and if we're getting that in this area right now, one small expert group. We've had more so far, so I don't think it's against us to have another one. Certain solutions essentially deviate from the principle of representation of judges and all degree courts in this body, which is certainly not a valid solution. This is also permeated through the other two draft laws, through the amendment of the Law on Judges, bad solutions are also permeated from the said law. Judges under this proposal will be controlled by colleagues classified in the High Council of Justice and the newly formed Supervisory Board. By forming the Supervisory Board as bodies for internal control, the work of the judges will carry out, exercise their control, give authority to the same to control court cases by appeal or self-initiatively. According to this, the promoter ignores the fact that in courts the complaint is a common phenomenon, that they often appear unfounded, that often they are false and that the conduct of them leads to the withdrawal of cases from work, because of control, which, normally as a consequence, leads to a halting of work, or slowing down of the work of courts, which is certainly not a good solution. It would be more logical to suggest that the work is done by the Presidents of the Courts or that the reasons for the active conduct of specific cases are listed. As for the High Council of Justice and the Supervisory Board, it certainly dissuades the role of the President of the District Courts, the President of the Municipal Courts; the introduction of supervisory committees that are elected by the Supreme Court judges and which can easily initiate the change of any court president in municipal and district courts throughout Serbia. Thus, the length of the term of office of the President of the Courts is reduced, which means that all judges elected in 2001 are very easily reaching a change and the provisions relating to the independence of the courts are being strengthened, and their independence is being denied by these proposals. As far as the draft law on prosecutors is concerned, Article 29 is certainly the most interesting (i will have to shorten the debate in due time). The bill has, in Article 29, a shockingly discriminatory character for me, according to elected public prosecutors and their deputies, under the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors of July 2003. So only these faces are subject to one new choice. The promoter, at least in my opinion, should have been so honest and really said what his real background was, and really said or confirmed that it wasn't rematch in this case. I doubt there's a bad intention behind all this. Mr. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the laws that we are talking about are laws that your MP group has proposed in the last term, that this is the fruit of the team's activities from your party, and on that basis probably you have no right to criticise the situation in the judiciary, it works by law, which is your hand's work. These proposals, which we have today, do not improve the judiciary. These proposals are not good for both the reasons I just put forward and the reasons my colleagues put forward before me, the DS MPs will not vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2464	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Prophetovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2465	It is not the current situation, the disastrous situation in the Serbian judiciary, the result of laws proposed by the DSS in 2001, but the result of amendments and additions to this law, proposed by Minister Batic on behalf of the DOS, and adopted by the DOS parliamentary group in 2002. Don't twist the facts and don't deceive the public. It is very difficult to discuss with people who have been unable to count for six months how many MPs the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2466	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vojkan Tomic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2467	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must also refer to the previous speaker who said this set of laws was proposed by the DSS parliamentary group. Yes, but the set of laws was mutilated and violated by the 2002 and 2003 changes. That is what it is, that in 2001, when the set of laws was passed, a positive opinion was received from Europe, that this is a positive step towards establishing an independent judiciary. In 2003, however, Mr. Jeffrey Barrett, the head of the European Commission's Belgrade office, brings us a report in which a fat red flomaster underlines that judicial independence is at stake. As a member of the People's Democratic Party, I have the ideal of an independent judiciary, not as part of a political programme, but also in part, because without an independent judiciary there is no branch of government that is necessary for the functioning of the entire system. We've been witnessing the collapse of the judiciary for the past two years. However, what the prosecution has experienced is beneath every measure these people in the prosecution could bear. When I just remember they took an oath before the Prime Minister, in front of DS member Zoran Zivkovic, that's enough reason to humiliate the prosecutors themselves. We were witnesses that the judges were elected without working experience in the field of justice, we were witnesses that prosecutors were elected without experience in the prosecution, we were witnesses of the election of the president of the courts and the minister mentioned one of these, the president of the Municipal Court in Cerdenovac, a guy who was a lawyer for a year and a few days, became president of the court. We witnessed that a certain number of Supreme Court judges had the way of an expert associate from the Ministry of Justice, through law, to the Supreme Court judges. We had another example like that, a lawyer from Sremska Mitrovica, who also became the Supreme Court judge. However, the most recent example was made by my colleague, Milica Gavrilovic, who was the Justice Ministry's secretary, Bruno Vekaric, who became deputy district attorney, of course not working a day in the prosecutor's office, skipping the steps prosecutors have to work for years, 8, 10 or 15 years to become district attorneys, the gentleman becomes deputy district attorney and in doing so becomes a spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. Of course, the attachments are huge. However, speaking of this gentleman, I cannot help but mention the wording of the attack on the public opinion -- to stop using the term "special court", but rather insists it is "special departments of the Belgrade District Court" and "special departments of the Belgrade district prosecutors". What we have as an abuse of a court trial by DS members who have lost most of their own party is precisely the biggest violation of the process itself that takes place before the "special section of the District Court". Today we witnessed the abuse of this pay phone and the replacement of the thesis by MP Bosko Ristic, a proven respecter of the Constitutional Court's decisions, because he entered history as the sole president of the Administrative Committee who did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision. Now I wonder, since Mr. Bosko Ristic has been going out for a long time for this pay phone and defending Mrs. Stamenkovic, why she was resolved in this way as she was resolved today, let him tell us what the problem is, and we know what this is about. We know that Mr. Zivkovic's insistence and insistence were chosen as the President of the District Court, and we also know from our information what was done in that district court. What was done in that court will be determined by the competent authorities. What is proposed by this set of judicial laws, I will only stick to it, not taking away other MPs' time, at key points. Key Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Judges, that is to introduce a Supervisory Board. To the court itself, the Supreme Court itself is left to exercise control over the work of the judges of the lower courts. If there is something stronger and more democratic than this, let the MPs bring it out, let them say this is not good. I think our parliamentary group and the minister would adopt it as a real argument. When we talk about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, what is crucial is to tighten the conditions for the choice for the public prosecutor's office holder and the deputy prosecutor's office. We have repeatedly underlined this, that it is offensive that so little experience is needed to elect a public prosecutor's office. In the third law governing the High Council of Justice, I would only underline two things that are very important to me, and that is, that the High Council of Justice will now work in two compositions, which are narrow composition and expanded composition. It is absolutely justified that the narrow system works when on the agenda of the High Council of Justice is a question in the area of courts, and when it comes to the district of the prosecutor's office, it is done by the narrow system. Of course, that provision that excludes the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Minister of Justice, when the High Council of Justice works in an extended system. Gentlemen, this is just one step towards building an independent judiciary. If the intensity of all of us is to enter Europe and if it is the intensity of all of us to comply with the standards Europe requires of us, I urge you to vote in favour of this set of judicial laws. I also expect our parliamentary majority to, after the adoption of the new constitution, have a new reform set of judicial laws that will arrange this area for a long period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2468	Replica, Mr. Ristic, then Minister of Justice, Mr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2469	I don't think I need to explain the reasons for the replica. I just want to remind the MPs that, in accordance with the Law on the selection of MPs, they were taken away at a time when Mr. Jocic was president of the Administrative Committee! The first decision to take office was signed by Mr. Jocic, as vice president. The first terms he took were legal and legitimate at the time. I must remind the MPs that the Constitutional Court has confirmed that the decisions of the Administrative Committee are in accordance with the law, but that the law was not in line with European criteria. Therefore, all decisions were made legally. As Jocic voted, I don't know, but I do know that you participated in the DOS agreements and that you voted at the DOS presidency to take away their mandates. So, that's what I'm saying. As for the observations about what was going on at the District Court in Nis, I would like someone to objectively consider what was going on there, because it is the court that most improved its rating in the number of sentencing cases and drastically reduced the number of abolished. You will see this from statistics, so compare some other district courts and get results. Mrs. Verica Stamenkovic is an extremely brave, quality judge, who has brought her working century to an end. I think it's pointless to call these people who have spent their working lives in the judiciary. I won't call others any more, because I think it's lost any more meaning. Otherwise, I use the opportunity to invite Mr. Minister Friday at 6:00 p.m. at the Veljkovic Pavilion, where the "six" who were convicted in these processes he participated in will gather. Maybe it'll be the hand of reconciliation, and maybe these remarks that the DSS colleague said that "the pumpkins have blossomed," that they're not "out of the blue" anymore, really, to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2470	Thank you for putting an end to it. The word has Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2471	Dear MPs, I will only address you to answer certain questions that have been asked to me. Indeed, this speaker does not serve as a personal caller, for I adhere to that old rule that when eight years of home education is missed, there is nothing more to be helped. I'll give answers to what I came here for. Mr. Markovic remarked that these laws would not speed up the proceedings in the courts. They won't, because it's not about the laws that are speeding up. The law on litigation, the law on criminal proceedings and enforcement is at issue. Workgroups are formed and they are in the final stages. I think it will already be before the Assembly in May, so I expect that these laws and laws that reduce the matter done by the courts will achieve a speed-up of the proceedings, i.e. the judges will be less burdened with certain cases, which are not de facto the jurisdiction of the courts, and on the other hand, simplifying the procedure will allow them to work more quickly in the same way. As for the questions of the minister's ability to launch an initiative for any judge's resolutions, I don't think calling on the Committee of the Assembly stands. The Committee of the Assembly does not have a supervisory office over the courts in order to be able to apply the measure, possibly and put a proposal, if it finds something bad, that the judge may be responsible for the mistreatment. What's important to me here to point out, the Minister and the Ministry have a right to so-called. the supervision of the work of the courts. When sightings fail and weaknesses, he has the right to initiate a certain procedure. But every decision on judges and prosecutors is made by the High Council of Justice, or personally greater, so that the minister does not have the opportunity to decide. As for the discussion of MP Milan Stevovic, I must admit that this is a very interesting discussion. It's about a new concept and a model that, in my opinion, when working on a new constitution, maybe he needs to find a suitable solution in that constitution. I just don't think I can agree with his explanation for the two-stage initiation of a trial for judges and prosecutors. If we evened out in those variants, we'd get, and that happens again and later on in others, we'd get so-called. Fourth power. Prosecutors aren't the fourth power. The constitution provides for only three: legislative, executive and judicial. We have led the prosecutors under the High Council of Justice to protect them from abuse of the executive authority. Otherwise, they are far closer to the executive authority, they will also have a normal situation as well as a relationship with the executive authority, because it is a single body of a specific executive authority that serves to prosecute it in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I don't think we should even it out, because we'd get fourth power. The fourth wave is not foreseen under the Constitution. The pay question has been asked. I think that's what I gave the explanation for. Decisions have been made. The law has been amended. You were in on it, and as I recall, almost unanimously. On this basis, regulations have been adopted and wages are increased by 20% to all, and from court fees. As for the courts, and that was the question, we provided funds for the first time that judges, judges and prosecutors were paid in accordance with the Law on Judges, not according to a regulation that was in force earlier, which is, somewhere, about 15%. I can't tell you exactly the percentage, but about that much. So, twenty-fifth percent, and any later increases will depend on the fee. If the tax was charged better, and as far as I know, there were 2,900,000 dinars last year, and half of it was 1,400,000, and that's 53% of the charge, if 80% of it was charged, I think employees could be raised by 20% and possibly by certain additions to judges. Also, I want to point to article 78. A proposal has been put in to eliminate for a simple reason. In one law where there are general reasons that apply to all and the basic principles applicable to all judges and prosecutors for resolution, no specific need to be introduced. This article 78a, I think it's pretty wasted. Unfortunately, he may have led to a bad situation. A large number of people who participated in these proceedings, as you say, are out of court today, but it has also led to the departure of a large number of good judges and courts very poor. This member becomes completely pointless, there are no people he can apply to. For these reasons, we suggested that it be abolished. The last finding - that these laws lead to a difficult situation in the judiciary. I have to draw attention, because it's obviously about replacing thesis. The 2001 laws were a shift in judicial independence. The 2002 changes, where the Constitutional Court had to respond urgently to temporary measures to halt a catastrophic change and change in 2003, have led the judiciary into this gruesome and difficult situation. With these changes now, which we are proposing, we are looking to remove these consequences and return to the initial state with certain improvements. There lies that explanation, why the High Council needs to be re-elected by that invitationary composition, as some more new functions are added and the prosecutor's question is being introduced. It's got to change the composition automatically. The only thing I want to say is, and I see it's the SPS MPs and they get it. If we could even these four prosecutors, we'd be in a position to say that we have a fourth power, because when it comes to the prosecutors, we have a permanent composition of four members, and prosecutors five would decide for themselves as a special authority. That's why it shouldn't have been allowed, and that's why it can only be two prosecutors, and with the prosecutor in constant composition, that's three -- a sufficient number that can decide on Council decisions, but it can't cross that number, because we'd get a fourth power that doesn't exist under the Constitution. I hope I've given an explanation of the basic and important things that have been asked here as a question. If necessary, in the follow-up session, I will give other explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2472	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Prophetovic, to the previous exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2473	I'm not going to replicate, because Mr. Bosko Ristic is not here right now. I'd just like to give a little defiance. In fact, the DSS has never voted in favour of whose term of office at meetings of the Administrative Board. The fact that Mr Dragan Jocic, as deputy chairman of the Administrative Committee, had to sign a decision made by the majority of the votes by DOS MPs and MPs of Branislav Ivkovic's party is in accordance with the law, because one president or vice president of the board does not release him from the obligation to sign the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-04-20-0.u2474	Thank you. On the basis of Article 94, and the time of the end of working hours has come near, I interrupt the work of the National Assembly. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. Thank you and pleasant.
