ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6820	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. No MP has informed that he has been prevented from attending. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLUATION ON THE ASSOCIATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (continuation) At the end of last night's replica session, National MP Gordana Komic appeared, then the first speaker today Goran Svilanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6821	Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of his working hours at yesterday's session, the MP, the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Angelkovic, said two facts that do not stand when it comes to the European Parliament's resolution made on 16 September, as well as yesterday's decision by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the adoption of a resolution entitled "functioning of democratic institutions in Serbia-Montenegro". So it was the European Parliament's resolution on the harassment of national minorities in Vojvodina. The resolution was adopted on 16 September this year on a proposal from all parliamentary groups in the European Parliament, the European Union parliament, unfortunately without our participation. This contribution to the discussion that we will later have in order to, as we say, go through European integration. At the request of Parliamentarian Zoran Angelkovic during today's day, the resolution has been taken into consideration, and will be available to you at the desk. It was discussed at two or three sessions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have ideas and an action plan to further co-operate with the Committee on International Relations of the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro, the Committee on International Policy of the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. We have direct co-operation with Hungarian parliamentarians. It is about MP Jolt Nemelt, who also heads the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Hungarian Parliament and our idea is to invite diplomatic representatives of individual countries and representatives of the European Union, I mean Belgrade, to listen to the Committee and our views. Especially with regard to what we have seen as too strong assessments in the resolution adopted by the European Parliament. That resolution is in total eight parameters with seven points and on the board I've said and I'll repeat, this resolution is the beginning, not the end. This resolution should be read as a chance to show the inaccuracy, untrueness and excessive intensity of the evaluations found in this resolution by the executive bodies in the Republic of Serbia, the province authorities and this assembly. I am well aware that there is a tendency in our public to evaluate the resolutions and documents of the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with too much ease and interpretation. Each of these documents is serious and is the beginning of a process when these institutions will call on us. This second resolution, which was passed yesterday and is still in English, I apologize for overstepping, only notification, so it will be translated during the week and you will get it in MP groups, and if we don't sit down, it will wait for you at the desk if we work. Please read the European Parliament resolution carefully. This will help all those who feel that they can do anything different than the ways of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6822	The word has a folk MP Goran Svilanovic, and let the MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say a few words in favour of the proposal of the Committee on European Integration of the Serbian Parliament, which proposed that we adopt a resolution on Serbia's European future. I thank you, because when I held the KZŠ in the Assembly a few months ago with the same idea and with a similar text of resolution, I just wanted as many parties as possible to gather around the idea. I regret to say that it is obvious that this resolution will be adopted, but that we will not have full consent. I sincerely regret that the idea was to bring together representatives of Serbia, so SRS representatives and their MPs, and SPS and everyone else in this country and, if possible, to be unique about the European idea. On the other hand, I am grateful to find that those who spoke against this resolution have not given up on the European idea and have spoken in favour of our country as a place indeed within the European Union. However, it is obvious that Serbia's political scene is at the moment pressing on some major topics that make the European idea somewhat aside. It is precisely the work of this Parliament in the last few months that shows that we are really following the course, whether different or also we think about key issues that burden the political scene. We had one session of the Assembly when we discussed the Law on Co-operation with The Hague Court. So this was also about helping those who are there and who are accused, but we did not all agree on the proposal that was made, but a two-day debate on the subject showed that we all accept that it is one of the key issues that has a major impact on the state of the country, which, of course, affects the work of this Parliament. After that, we had a two-day session, and we discussed again the proposal of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the plan for decentralisation of Kosovo, and then we reached full agreement, which is one of the topics dominated by political life. In addition, it was difficult to reach agreement a few days ago when we look at statements by the Prime Minister and the president of the state that are different on one issue, and it is about the situation in Kosovo. Today we are discussing a third topic that I believe is also one of the essential topics on Serbia's political scene, which is whether, under what conditions, under which circumstances we will really become part of the European Union. My idea was to talk a little more openly today, at least about what I'm about to say, and I think some speakers were saying yesterday, about the problems that exist. First, there are problems on the part of the European Union, not only with us and hence some who have talked about whether they want us, whether or not we are going to know whether or not we are going to become part of the European Union at all, they are not talking very empty. Problems exist, but they need to be defined. There are several questions at this point that are being discussed within the European Union and it would be good for the discussion that we are having to follow these considerations. One of the dilemmas is the relationship between the European Union and the Russian Federation. This is a big topic for the member states of the European Union, because they are not able to define to the end with such a large country, very influential in the international order, an important country, but still a country that is not, but will probably not be a member of the European Union. It's one of the issues European ministers are dealing with at the moment. Another similar question is, what are the interests and what policy the European Union needs and can lead to in relation to the situation in the Caucasus and Central Asia, and this is an important issue for European ministers, because by responding to these and the birds that I will mention, the European Union is in fact defining its borders, which means that it creates conditions for defining its foreign policy. The third such question is a question that includes us, and that is whether and at what speed they will manage to integrate the countries so-called. The Western Balkans, and that's us. The fourth such issue is the most present in the media in the last few days, which is Turkey's integration. I mention these questions because all the four issues I have mentioned are important for Serbia, whether we will soon or later become members of the European Union. It's normal for us to have a relationship with these questions. We can say today in Parliament that all those gathered in this House want to improve the relationship between the European Union and the Russian Federation. It also affects our position. Currently, Serbia is energy related to the Russian Federation, energy dependent on the Russian Federation, when it comes to gas, to a good extent when it comes to oil. We have an interest in seeing how the European Union and the Russian Federation will develop, because we want membership in the European Union. When it comes to the Caucasus or Central Asia, too, because riots and terrorist actions there are certainly creating conditions to increase the sense of insecurity, fear and uncertainty for all citizens in our country. When it comes to the fourth subject I mentioned, which is Turkey's integration into the European Union, we need to have a clearer position and we need to talk a little bit about it, not because we are wondering, but because it is our interest to have a clear idea whether Turkey should or should not enter the European Union. First, it's a country that's one wider neighbor to our country. Secondly, it is a country that depends heavily on stability in Serbia, given the high percentage of the Bosniak, Muslim population in our country. We care about improving our relationship with them. It would be important to achieve agreement in this Parliament whether they belong in the European Union. My opinion is that it is, precisely because Turkey is the centre of European Islam and as such can represent a bridge towards stabilising relations between key partners, between the European Union and the United States. The third question concerns us. To this issue of Balkan integration, which means Serbia-Montenegro, the European Union gave one answer more than a year ago at a summit held in Thessaloniki. The summit brought together leaders of the European Union and leaders of Western Balkan countries. There were also our representatives: the president of the state union, the prime ministers of both Member States. It's a really good decision. It's what we expected. The sentence contained in the document, in the conclusions of the Thessaloniki summit, reads: "The European Union will not be complete until the Western Balkan countries," which means, "they do not become part of it". This can please us, but we must be open and say that the finance ministers did not follow this view of the foreign ministers, because the aid that stands out is still insufficient, regardless of the growth recorded in Serbia in 2001 – 5.5%, in 2002 – 4%, in 2003 – 3%. Given the murder of the Prime Minister, that's a success. This year's growth will be bigger. Regardless of the growth we are recording, the gap, in economic terms, between us and the countries that were candidates by yesterday and entered the European Union on 1 May this year, has been increased. That is what we must explain to the citizens of our country, but at the same time to ministers in the European Union, when we address a request for greater and more determined support. However, dilemmas on the part of the European Union exist, regardless of the decision taken at the summit. More and more influential voices are saying -- it's about countries that are still unfinished, it's about countries that are based on documents that were only meant to put out fire, not to stabilise a clear political system, and then mention the Dayton Agreement, as an agreement that was only meant to put out the war in Bosnia, not to build new Bosnia. They mention the Ohrid Agreement, as an agreement that was only meant to stop conflicts in Macedonia, rather than permanently define Macedonia. They mention the Belgrade Agreement, as an agreement that was intended to prevent our country from breaking up, but at the same time they do not see it as an agreement that could be a real constitutional model of a stable community. This is one of the problems seen more and more by the ministers of the European Union. One of the problems we can solve here, which is to define our relationship with the Belgrade Agreement, to bring Serbia's Constitution. The government of President Kostunica had several assignments, and I would like two. One to try to bring the Constitution, that's where we were supposed to help; the other to complete our co-operation with The Hague Court. Both of these goals, both of these tasks lead to faster membership in the European Union. That is why, when some MPs here say they want to join the European Union, but do not want to impose conditions such as the completion of co-operation with the Court of Justice in The Hague, the unclear policy of the European Union in relation to Kosovo, so they take it as an obstacle, I must openly say that these are the conditions for membership in the European Union. We, as we have dealt with these issues, will also return to these questions in the coming months. We will return to Kosovo, precisely because of the difference that has been made, we will return because the elections will be held and authorities will soon be formed. We will return to the Kosovo issue because the serious dialogue on whether this status remains or if Kosovo's status changes next year will begin. Let me tell you frankly, the key factors will be in office by the beginning of next year. I have in mind that there are presidential elections in America and that early next year there will be a new or new-old administration. I have insight into the fact that the European Union has just chosen a new composition of European commissioners, so the new government of the European Union, and that they will soon be in their offices. I have insight into the fact that elections will be held in Kosovo and that we will have a new government. I have insight into the fact that the Serbian government's century is probably limited and that early next year we will have elections at some point. The government that is elected will have to have a lot of courage, because it will be a government that will inherit jobs that this government has not completed, unless the constitution ends, co-operation with The Hague Court, and gets new jobs, such as participation in the Kosovo status dialogue. We can't pretend we don't see it. On the contrary, we here or the new composition of parliament, regardless of who will choose the government, must help the government to participate in the process as a partner who can really influence the decisions that will be made. If we say here that we want to join the European Union, but we don't want to co-operate with the Court of Justice in The Hague, we don't want anything to change in Kosovo, I'm afraid we essentially said we don't want to join the European Union. These are conditions and are not the only conditions. They are right to say that fighting corruption is also a condition, that the overall state of human rights is also a very important condition, that the functioning of the domestic economy may be a key condition. All of these are the conditions and should be open and accept the fact that we are talking today about the resolution that was proposed and that perhaps those who said yesterday that we would return to this topic are right. We will return until we reach full unity. That's why I said at first that I was very sorry that Serbian radicals are not with us today, which is also not with us today in this matter. Perhaps it could have been more flexible in the talks about the text of the resolution, I would have loved it very much. My idea, when I proposed this resolution, was to make a deal and get us all behind one text, even if that text wasn't ideal. To be clear, if there is no willingness to complete co-operation with the Court of Justice in The Hague, we can make any resolution, there is no question that we will be able to reach membership in the European Union. It is legitimate that anyone, who is an MP or who runs the party, says here – we will not do it. That attitude can be defended, but that attitude implies defining some other orientation of our country, some other policy of our country. In these circumstances, I must say - look, let's look together, let's look around us, all the countries that are our neighbours, or are members of the European Union or are far away on that path. It is true that some of them do not have the kind of economy Serbia has today. Even the legal system doesn't work anywhere near, how it works in Serbia, with all the shortcomings, with all the problems we have. But they are a few steps ahead of us. Don't be surprised if our neighbours are still rewarded by speeding up their European perspective, just so we can be sent a message to step aside, to agree whether we want to join the European Union, or whether we want to keep going back to topics that we cannot possibly overcome. It is true that exactly the acceleration of the accession process in some of these countries is a direct consequence of the fact that we do not have a decision on what we want with our country, that we do not have much unity about how we want this country to look and whether this country wants to be part of the European Union. When you turn around, you will see that this is not only true in relation to the European Union, but also in relation to NATO. I think this country should be a NATO member. I am sorry that the SPS has left out its signature, its vote in favour of this resolution, because the Partnership for Peace has been mentioned. You're right, the Partnership for Peace is NATO's lobby. Of course, it doesn't necessarily mean that upon entering the Partnership for Peace this country will actually join NATO. It is my policy and may not be shared by the majority in this parliament, or by the majority in this country, but let's just talk for one minute about why NATO is important. NATO is on the territory of our country, in Kosovo. NATO is in the nearest neighbourhood, in Bosnia and Macedonia is present with its combat units, with military missions. The fact is that all other countries are around us or in NATO, or a step away from it, but in the Partnership for Peace. What other policy can we define? Who else in the world is our partner in this policy of ours? I'm afraid that's not true. Russia is a member of the Partnership for Peace Programme. Secondly, he is practically a NATO member. The annual NATO-Russian Federation summits are being held, and key decisions are being made for both. So let's not claim that there is a partner for another, different, fundamentally different policy. We need to make a decision whether we want to get into these processes or not. I believe that each of you truly wants to live in this country better, to make people richer than they are, to make the economy stronger. That basically means you want EU membership. The gap between us and each of the countries that have joined the EU is 1:6 when it comes to the poorest member of the EU. Let's tell it to the citizens of our country. That's a fact. Only today and yesterday's debate is surrounded by the topic -- Kosovo and The Hague. I believe that when we return this topic, once we adopt this resolution, in six months or a year we will return to a similar text. There may no longer be a topic that will burden this debate, then perhaps we will be able to consider the arguments mentioned here yesterday, which relate to agriculture. Let's say the citizens of this country that when we seriously negotiate with the EU, the key problem will be agriculture because at this point average property in Serbia is about three hectares and below. With less than three acres in Vojvodina, you can't live. In the mountainous and mountainous area, perhaps, if you are near a big city, if you are engaged in warfare and if you are constantly on the market and selling war products for cash. Little owners won't be able to survive with such a small property, with such a small hectare, with so little production, and that's what people should be told. We do not need to hide from them that when we talk about EU membership, we are talking about fundamental changes and agriculture. But our responsibility is to put on the scale of the country's gain and what the losses are. It is true and should be said - there are costs, there are losses, there are poor foreign EU memberships, but they are incomparable to what membership in the European Union brings to this country and when it comes to its security and when it comes to its integrity and when it comes to its economy and the European Union market. Therefore, this debate that we are having today is essential. This is why it is important that the larger number of MPs today decide that we want to speed up the accession process to the European Union and be fully aware, not only depends on us, the conditions set are very sharp, very strict and it is true that this mood within the EU is cooling down in time towards the Balkan countries. It cools because of unresolved geostrategic issues, it cools because of the high level of corruption in the administration, because of the weakness of the economy. It can satisfy some of the MPs today, which is why I'm saying this, but we need to be open to the citizens of this country -- the economy is in such a difficult state, the institutions have suffered such a huge blow, that if we want to recover the economy and the personal standard of every citizen and stabilise the institutions of this country, we have to work with the European Union. Therefore, the essence of the document we adopt must be binding on both this and each of the next governments, whether it is Members of one, the other or the third parties. To continue to do the best he can, as fast as he can, the process of joining the country's EU. If we stay where we are today, and formally observed, we are at the end of those who are waiting to join the EU, last in line, if we stay in that place it will be difficult, people will live worse than they do today and we will not have the courage to explain to them why it is. It is precisely because of the indecisiveness to define a clear national EU accession strategy, that things are standing in this country. The strategy must also include the issue of co-operation with the Hague court, it must include what we adopted as a plan for Kosovo, it must include full co-operation with the international community and therefore we cannot rule out Serbs from Kosovo from political processes and suggest they do not participate in these processes. They have to participate, they have to fight with all of us for safety, fight to live better than they do today. That's not gonna work. I thank again all the parties who are publicly in the Assembly, as well as in the Committee's work, for supporting and affecting this text of resolution to be as good as possible. We'll support this text. I'm really sorry other parties won't do it. I just hope that in different circumstances, in a few months, we will talk about this again and that then other parties in Serbia will be willing to support this. I respect the support you have received from citizens and I believe that those citizens who have supported the SRS or the SPS also have the dilemmas that you speak of here publicly. They also have fears about Kosovo and its future, when it comes to co-operation with the Hague court, but at the same time, these same citizens want to live better and want to become part of the EU in the best sense of the word, when it comes to personal standards, when it comes to their security, when it comes to their personal life. That is why I hope that you will continue to adapt your policy to the demands of those people who supported you, in order to meet these hopes, and not only those concerning the topics you spoke about yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6824	Thank you. Since there is currently no authorised representative on this agenda point, Gordana Pop-Lazic, a replica to mention the SRS. I apologize, she's an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6825	Dear fellow Members of the People, I went out for a pay phone more for the public than for you, because I suppose it is much clearer to you what Mr. Svilanovic wanted in his presentation, in exchange for the thesis to say and to tell the Serbian public. So, the SRS is for European integration, but we see and experience these European integrations quite differently from how Mr Svilanovic sees it or how the motioner of this resolution experiences it. Whenever there's something on the agenda in this House, I remember the exposé that the prime minister had when you all voted for this government and I think we should be as representatives of the people to control what the government is doing. In this regard, I wanted to draw on one sentence made by the prime minister, presenting the programme and the composition of the new government -- the government will develop a national strategy for EU accession, which will expose the basic elements of the accession policy and the obligations of state bodies, businesses and other social factors in this long-term process. If you remember my presentation yesterday, when I commented on who were proposing such an important resolution, I was just asking the government to deal with this problem as perhaps the most competent one, because it promised to develop a national strategy, but we do not have any national strategy, not only on the EU accession, as it stands in this resolution, but on no important state issue. When I say "an important state issue", I mean both economics and the economy and social policy, both at The Hague and at joining various European institutions. The moment we are able to adopt a complete strategy for the development of this country, then, within that strategy, we will be able to address this issue as well. This way, out of the whole context of society and the state, only something that is current or important at the moment, wanting to cover some political move that will follow or that has already been, is unacceptable to us. This resolution doesn't mean anything to us. We want you as Parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6826	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6827	... We'll help the government if it's necessary to develop a national strategy. And that's when I told Mr. Kostunica, from your presentation, I still don't see what this country's strategy is. You owe it as a future prime minister to make it. You can't, we're here in Parliament the ones who can. So don't let anyone lecture here to the SRS, don't let them explain the SRS' attitudes. We've shown in all the choices we've made so far that we can...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6828	Four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6829	... To explain to voters what the SRS programme is and what we want. So, the strategy is yes, but what we have ahead of us is not a strategy but a trick for all the dirty things that should be done, which would draw Serbia even more away from European integration. Please, the basic question, why didn't you suggest this resolution...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6830	Please, four and a half minutes, be kind and finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6831	I'm done. So in 2002, in 2003, what were you waiting for until 2004?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6832	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Dacic. Replica, Mr. Aligrudic. Please, once again with the apology of Mrs Pop-Lazic, let us remind myself, and I forgot, therefore, three are authorised representatives: Gordana Pop-Lazic in front of the SRS, Dusan Proroković in front of the DSS and Milos Jevtic in front of the DS. I'm really sorry I missed that. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6833	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have answered the line about the SPS mentioning Mr Goran Svilanovic. I tried yesterday to define why the SPS would not support this motion for a resolution. Simply because this resolution speaks in the title of joining the European Union, and in the context of the resolution, the proposal also mentions other programmes which, as Mr Svilanovic himself said, are the lobby of a multinational military organisation -- NATO. It is not disputed to also discuss joining NATO's pact or joining NATO's pact or joining NATO's pact. That is what parliament needs to make a decision or, according to the SPS, because there are numerous scars on the body and the soul of the Serb people related to the NATO pact. We think that it is best to declare this to the people in the referendum, and as it is done in many countries of Europe. In view of all of this, we have been asked a fundamental question, if the position of all political parties is that we should do everything to join the European Union as soon as possible. Then why in making these documents we insist on the details that lead to us not having a consensus on accepting these documents. If we want a consensus, then we have to go to the smallest possible common denominator. What has been done has been done in such a way that it only deepens divisions, divisions and secessions of the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia on this subject. Therefore, the SPS does not support this resolution text. That is why it is entirely wrong for someone to conclude that those who support the text of this resolution are for European integration, and those who do not support are against it. We do not support the text and the way the text happened. Otherwise, as you know, since 2000, October 5th, and these days were exactly four years, there has been enough time for the government that was once in the single DOS to bring not only resolutions on joining the European Union, but also to do something concrete to make us a step closer to the European Union. Mr. Goran Svilanovic knows that, too, because he was foreign minister. At one point when he exhibited in the Federal Parliament concerning our country's international position, he said one sentence, and I remember it today, which is that in some segments, the international position of the state union or at that time the SRJ was even worse than before 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6834	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6835	Anyway, I called to explain what Mr. Goran Svilanovic was talking about about with the SPS. We would support every text of the resolution and we will support every draft law that is justified by the need to harmonise our legislation with European Union legislation, but we do not support a small door through various papers introducing a partnership for peace and NATO pact in what is called a consensus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica when he had his own exposé which is...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6836	Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6837	... Supported by the SPS, he mentioned joining the European Union. He didn't mention a Partnership for Peace. I ask that the Serbian government also stick to what they said at the beginning of their term of office.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6838	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Svilanovic. Really, I think this is getting a little unfair. I understand all the speakers who answer. I'll strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure. So, over three and a half minutes, I can't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6839	Partnership for peace, I want some things to be clear, whether something's being introduced to a small door or not. I said my position, I think we should join NATO. I even said some elements in favor of my position. I accept that a good part of the people in this assembly disagrees, or that a good part of the citizens disagree with this. What I insist on is that when we discussed whether it was our country's place in the Partnership for Peace programme, we called on the Committee on Foreign Policy and Security of the then Federal Assembly, and then I presented the proposal as the sole proposal and the only item of the agenda to the Committee and asked for the agreement of the Committee. I just want it to be clear that the procedure is respected and that that is when we brought it to Parliament's competent committees. As for the referendum, yes or no, the Parliament's decisions yes or no, when it comes to NATO, cannot be decided without a referendum. That's not the subject of this House or this society at the moment. When it comes to the Partnership for Peace programme, it's something the government can decide on. In particular, some decisions have been made and I want to mention them, and that ends Mr. President. The federal government's decision has been made. Secondly, a decision of the Supreme Defence Council was made. Third, the decision of the Foreign Political Committee and the Security Committee of the Federal Parliament. So it went into some procedure that was really acceptable, I just wanted to explain that he didn't skip the order of steps. At this point, I said why I think it is a place to mention the Partnership for Peace programme in this document, and that is why I am sorry that we do not have SPS support for this document, because there is no country that has entered the European Union without being in that programme. Secondly, there is no country that has not entered the Council of Europe first, then the European Union. Therefore, something has been done in the previous four years to make our country reach the European Union. You said it was small, and I respect your opinion and I want to help this government too when it comes to membership in the European Union to do as much as possible, and to every next one that will be formed, because that is the goal that exceeds our party divisions. We cannot define the left and right in the country, because all other topics of Kosovo and Serbia-Montenegro are just not the subject of how people live, so we can discuss the percentages of education, the percentages of agricultural isolation, to turn to people who are supposed to live from something in this country. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6840	Thank you. Replication to the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic, please, Mr Aligrudic. Replication to Mr. Svilanovic's presentation later? The edge of Dacic? Please, just after the presentation, I'm sorry, Mr. Yevtić, I won't give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6841	In Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic's statement, the prime minister of the republican government, who is also president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, was mentioned, and that is the basis for the replica. The issue of national strategies for European integration, i.e. to join the European Union, has been mentioned. The context in which it was said meant a set of all the measures that would influence us to meet the conditions required to join the European Union and when, in the slow process, the Prime Minister spoke of the overallity of these measures. They mean, in the broadest sense, the words of economic and political measures. Joining the European Union is, in fact, some kind of accession agreement. We do not determine these conditions, we do not determine those measures and the totality of these measures, but they are predetermined and determined. Of course, the difference in these conditions depends on the specificities of certain areas and specificities of the countries in which they are located. This country has certain specificities, even if it were not, that it is exactly the same, that the same circumstances as in other countries would exist certain elements that need to be met, certain conditions that, if there were sincere will, and as far as I've heard clearly there are no differences, that the European Union is being approached, because at this point in view of the degree of development we are in, given the environment we have no other conditions for prosperity. Therefore, this is the goal of what was given in the prime minister's presentation in the inaugural speech when it came to defining the national strategy for joining the European Union. Something else is mentioned in this text of the resolution. That doesn't go against what the Prime Minister put out. The assembly, when it adopts this resolution, will in some way request the republican government to draw up Serbia's national accession strategy as soon as possible, without setting the length of the deadline. The shorter the deadline given the gravity of the task and the complexity of the commitments to be taken, but on the other hand, there is in Article 5(5) of this resolution the obligation to inform once every three months the National Assembly by the Republic Government of the planned and fulfilled commitments and the implementation of all programmes and other activities necessary to speed up the process of joining the state union of Serbia-Montenegro to the European Union. So here we are building a commitment to the Republic government to report to us, within certain deadlines, on the measures that have been taken so far on this plan. So, I don't see any contradiction in that, and I think that this resolution is in no way incompatible with what's said in the inaugural speech, but that it's compatible, and that in this way we're practically meeting these obligations that are in front of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6842	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and let the MP Dejan Mikavica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the motion for a resolution on joining the European Union is one political pamphlet aimed at turning the story in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the right track and going on the sidelines, to talk about something that will be in 2012 or 2017 or 2021 or who knows when. Today, the parliament was due to discuss a statement by Serbian President Boris Tadic calling on Serbs and the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the polls. Why is he asking us out to the polls? Why is such an opinion by the President of the Republic of Serbia contrary to the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was also voted by MPs from the Democratic Party? Why is his opinion contrary to the opinion of the Democratic Party MP club? Why is his position contrary to the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why is his attitude contrary to the position of the Serbian Orthodox Church? Why is Boris Tadic's stance contrary to the position of the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church? Why is it contrary to the interests of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija? Why does Boris Tadic want the agony of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to continue? Why is he wishing a new 17th March for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? This is what we, ladies and gentlemen, should have discussed today, not this resolution that has only one goal, which is to distract the story from what is most important in the state of Serbia, which is the election scheduled for October 23rd in Kosovo and Metohija. Who is in the interest of succeeding the election process in Kosovo and Metohija is scheduled for 23 October 2004 and to form the Shiparian institutions? The international community that has collapsed, shame and shame in its five-year operation in Kosovo and Metohija, the Shiptars. Since the start of multilaterals in Serbia, they have been boycotting elections, not recognising Serbia's state. Did anyone force them to vote? Did anyone blackmail them into going to any elections? No, neither Europe nor the world nor Serbia did. It was their democratic right. It seems that in the world, everyone has and protects their rights except for the Serbs and the Serb people. For them, there is no right but to blackmail, pressure, threats, harassment, bombing, it is for Serbs, and for other rights and democracy. Who else is in the interest of successful election process in Kosovo and Metohija? Shyptarists and terrorists, and that's the only reason. It is in the interest of Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia. Why? To be a Western favorite, and to the detriment of Serbs and the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and in general Serbs in the state of Serbia. Who else is in the interest? The return coalition, which was the only one who supported Boris Tadic's proposal, and the fact that they are going to the assembly sessions in the children's car, which happened on 17 March, does not matter, it is important that they do well. Since the election, 100 will have interests, and what about the interests of 130,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, what about the interests of 250,000 expelled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and what about the interests of Serbs living in Serbia. It is important that members of the Return Coalition and the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic be satisfied. To this day, only one Niš-based civic initiative has applied for elections in Kosovo and Metohija. According to Mr. Boris Tadic, everyone else was either crazy or stupid, and his political party had not participated in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija so far. Why didn't they do that if he had such a vision from before? Why did he publish this after the local and regional elections in Vojvodina? Who is in the interest of the Kosovo and Metohija elections being successful? Former and current foreign minister, Mr Svilanovic and Mr Vuk Draskovic. Mr. Svilanovic said recently that Kosovo will be independent in 2005. I don't know why he's sitting in these parliamentary benches. A statement by one of the senior DOS officials, messages to citizens, and he wants some political consensus to be reached here, wants some unity in this parliament, and sends a message to Serbs in Kosovo that tomorrow Kosovo will be independent. I would like to take this opportunity and ask him what Mr Svilanovic is in, did he get the authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to lead certain European delegations in Kosovo and Metohija? I was personally introduced by Mr. Svilanovic to Karl Bilt when he was in Kosovo Mitrovica. In that capacity? Whose MP is he? Does the European Parliament, does the Serbian parliament, do Kosovo's parliament? Whose interests is he protecting? Europe, Shipara, Serbs? Let Mr. Goran Svilanovic plead. He tells him - I am so sorry that Serbian radicals are not with us. I'd rather kill myself than be with you and your idea of creating a Serbian state. Who else is interested in making the election work? It's in Mr. Vuk Draskovic's interest, and I'd like to ask him - why Wolf? Why? So he can walk around Europe and the world, receive it from world statesmen, so that he can bring gifts from those trips to his family. Well, that's not such a reason to put on the pillar of shame and the nakedness of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. And yet another great businessman has reason to succeed in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, which is Bogoljub Karic, but his interest is of financial nature -- to protect his interests, his company "Mobtel", which works in Kosovo and Metohija. So when we analyze who's in the interest of it, it's one handful of people -- Svilanovic, Vuk Draskovic, Tadic, and the Return Coalition. Are they an important factor that can convince Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Be assured - no. Serbs will not go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of what they call them. However, these elections will be made as determined by the UNMIK administration, not as voted. We are aware of that, these false choices, both in Republika Srpska and in Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises whether Serbia should go to Europe. European integration -- yes, but without conditions, without The Hague, without Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia must be an equal member of the European Union, not a maimed Serbia, with one leg, without Kosovo and Metohija, or Serbia without its sons who have been accused of crimes they did not commit, who have only committed their duty and heroically defended Serbs and the Serb people against Cypriot terrorists and separatists, and from NATO aggression to the state of Serbia. Is secession allowed in the European Union? It's not allowed. And are Slovenia and Croatia rewarded for the act of secession? They did. They were rewarded, and Serbia will also be rewarded, according to Goran Svilanovic, if it secedes from Kosovo and Metohija, and the job is finished. Is that justified? It's not. It's not justified. No one has the right, nor does Goran Svilanovic, to sacrifice any part of the territory for the rest of the part, so that he can live. Kosovo and Metohija is a Serb sanctity and must remain, regardless of all the problems we face, within the Serbian state. That's the only way it's gonna be Serbia. If there is no Kosovo and Metohija, be assured -- neither will the Serbian state. Let me remind you, five and a half years ago in Kosovo and Metohija is the European Union. All administrators, civilian so-called. The administrators were from Europe, five six of them, as far as they've changed so far, they're all European citizens and members of these governments of Europe and they've been working for five and a half years. If you do not know how they do and what they do, please walk to Kosovo Mitrovica, to Gracanica, to Strpce and to see what Europe and the world have brought to Kosovo and Metohija. For five and a half years, there is a very long period, a great process for each and every serious strategy and policy. And it's a very small space for the world. But there are very big problems, because Kosovo and Metohija have made a "black hole" of Europe and the world, this very European Union and this world international community. The Charter writes well - free movement of people, goods, capital and services. Is there freedom of movement for people in Kosovo and Metohija? There isn't. There's freedom to kill people, to arrest people, to harass people, to persecute them, but on the condition that he's a Serb, because then everything is allowed. Is there a goods store? There is no free trade, there is already smuggling, and the most trafficked goods in Kosovo and Metohija are drugs and weapons. Is there a movement of capital? There is, by robbing Serbian property, Serbian households, robbing Serbian nature in Kosovo and Metohija. It is done to launder dirty money through Kosovo institutions. Can you use services? Do you know what services Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija can use? Just prison services. No other services have the right to use Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Is this what this parliament needs to adopt today and propose to Serbian citizens, especially Serbs who have stayed in Kosovo and Metohija and a message for 250,000 Serbs who want to return to Kosovo and Metohija. No, I don't. I'm sure that's not the case. Here, I will read you two letters that I received from the Serbian National Council of Kosovo Mitrovica, and for Kosovo and Metohija, which warn of this devastating act, to this false step by President Boris Tadic and ask that this assembly sit down urgently and decide whether to go to elections or not. Why did we bring a resolution from a month or two ago if it takes one man to crush everything that 250 MPs say? I cannot understand that Boris Tadic refutes Bojan Pajtic's opinion, Comićka and others from the DS. Because they said two months ago -- there is no choice until the government's plan for Kosovo is realised, and now their president, acting as president of the Republic of Serbia, cancels the entire will of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, and all of us here who voted. No one was against it then. With a policy like this, Serbia will be nothing. So let's think about it. If we know we're leading the country, we're leading it, if we don't resign, because this is such an act that every normal statesman would resign in his place, after this decision, and that the entire public and the whole environment would be against that decision. One man can't be smarter than 10 million people. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6844	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6845	So, the problem in Kosovo is certainly a problem that tangs all MPs in this parliament. What is definitely the common interest of all of us is that in Kosovo security standards for the Serbian and all non-Albanian population are provided, above all. Of course there are two models that are proposed to achieve this. One is, of course, legitimate, and he is looking at the election boycott in Kosovo, and the other is also a legitimate man and it is an invitation for Serbs in Kosovo to come to the polls. Why do I think this other one is more right? First of all, he shows good will towards the international community, and on the other hand leaves enough room for the Serbian side, especially in case, in due time, within a reasonable time, these security standards do not establish, that Serbian MPs in parliament withdraw their mandates. There is also a third group of MPs who are trying to replace the issues and who are discussing the consequences we currently have in Kosovo. It is much more instructed to discuss and analyse the causes that have led to such a difficult situation, and it is quite hypocritical that the representatives of the SRS talk about it. They directly caused by their political action the heavy loss of the Serb people today in Kosovo. As for the maximum access to this resolution and its adoption, it was primarily the achievement of a broad social consensus, and such consensus must be preceded by a consensus of political parties in parliament. I'm very sorry we couldn't do that. However, the result of today's discussion, and it seems to me that the post-debate vote, will be a clear polarisation of the Serbian political scene on the parties that are to join the European Union and the parties, such as the SRS and the SPS, which are not to join the European Union. It is not enough for certain political parties to declare themselves European-oriented. So they have to prove it by their actions. The SPS, or Mr Ivica Dacic, is talking about achieving the least common denominator in the European integration process. Mr Dacic, that is not enough, because such an approach does not meet all the necessary conditions for entering the European Union. I'll remind you one more time, that's what I said yesterday in the statement that there is no country, a member of the European Union that has not previously been in the Partnership for Peace programme. That's why the Partnership for Peace was mentioned in this resolution. Serbia has definitely determined its path and made it clear. This is the way to the European Union, and Serbian citizens have shown in all elections held over the past year that they are for European Serbia. Of course, it is very important that we, by our political action and understanding of political responsibility, make this path faster and more efficient, precisely, in this assembly, we are, above all, responsible for it to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6847	Thank you, Madam Vice President, I owe you an answer, since you asked a question and that's why I'm answering. So, you asked me why I introduced you and how I introduced you to Carl Bilt, and otherwise I thought you'd thank me for being able to talk to Carl Bilt. The fact is that he was once the prime minister of Sweden, and the second fact is that at this point he is very influential among the right-wing parties in the political spectrum throughout the European Union. In particular, the International Commission for the Balkans brings together 17 people. I'm a member. The president of the commission is Giuliano Amato, who was the president of the Italian government. The members of that commission are still Karl Bilt, whom you mentioned, who was the president of the Swedish government, the member of that commission is Jean character Dean, who was the prime minister of Belgium, who was a member of that commission, Kiro Gligorov, who was president of Macedonia. A member of that commission is Vitzzecker, who was president of Germany, so a whole series of people, mostly from the European Union, but also two representatives from the United States, was an opportunity for you to say what you want, what you think and you took that opportunity. So, don't be against it, because I didn't speak there either as an MP, nor as president of any party, no, I was just happy that you and other Serbs from Kosovo, so in Lipan, in Decan, in the Sokolic monastery, in the old Grack, and there we talked about all the troubles and you know, people were speaking very openly, very directly, looking for security, they were looking for decentralisation, they were ideas and they said, and I believe that you didn't say otherwise, but as a majority. So that's the answer to your question, how did those people get there. Let me tell you something else, why are they important? So, as you could see, the European Union is expanding its powers in relation to the crisis points in the region, so it took over the Bosnian mission, took over the mission in Macedonia, the next step in the next two years will be for the European Union to be practically in charge of political, but especially for the security situation in Kosovo, instead of NATO. That's why it was important for you to talk to these people, and it will be important in the next few years for all of us to become part of the European Union, because I'm afraid you didn't listen when Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus spoke on the first day. He said it openly, and I will just repeat it, the only way for you to travel to your family for the next 10 years without visas, so to the Serbs in Croatia, in Bosnia, in Kosovo, is to be together in the European Union. Believe me, it may be sad, but it's the only way we can keep that Serb Corps without borders. That's what I wanted to tell you, because it's one of the arguments, not the most important but important argument, when we talk about whether we want to go to the European Indies or we want to go out. We can be outside, but we're gonna need visas for all the ones I mentioned. If you want to live in such an orchestra, I'm afraid you won't have the support of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6848	Mr. Kragovic, the base for reporting? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6849	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. - The MP violates the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have received the answer that the MP is a member of a European Commission and here again I ask that the Administrative Committee declare whether the MP, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the right to be a member of any European Commission. So, either in any other body, and only after a few years do we find out that he's a member of that committee or such a committee. On the other hand, Mr. Svilanovic, if you're willing to fight for Serbs who are in Kosovo, why you sold the property, I mean Gjilan, why you sold it to the Shiptars, because tomorrow you'll sell it here, you'll go to Brussels. That's where you belong, sell what you have in Belgrade, sell it there, sell it here, go and be a friend of Karl Bilta's, and leave us here to fight alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6850	Hansel Dacic, the base for reporting? Replication to Milos Jevtic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6851	The mandated DS representative, Mr Milos Jevtic, is, of course, in the manner of the Agitpropova propaganda, so the SPS has defined as a party that is against entering the European Union. It's exactly what I was saying at the beginning. So whoever disagrees with the text of this resolution is against entering the European Union. That, Mr Jevtic, also spoke Cedomir Jovanovic to all those who did not accept his plan for harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's relations, all were then against the European Union. We are not against joining the European Union, but we clearly say that we are against joining NATO, we are asking that the people declare this in a referendum, and I therefore believe that there should be no partnership for peace in this text, but your authority for the past three years has shown that it is not up to entering the European Union, because at the time of your government, there was an action of "Sabbe" where there were the most violations of human rights in this part of Southeast Europe. There's been a sugar affair where we've been sanctioned for sugar. We were given sanctions, ladies and gentlemen, for defending the Serbian people and for smuggling sugar. In your time, there was a vote from Bodrum, Thessaloniki and everyone else, and I even heard it was from Beijing. In your day, ladies and gentlemen, there's been crime, corruption and the connection of your highest officials to criminal affairs, and you're for the European Union? Who will welcome you into such a European Union? So I don't let DS have the right to share lessons with the SPS or anyone else, and the fact that you called as a party, or Boris Tadic did it himself, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to elections, confirms well how principled you are. You urged Serbs in Serbia not to participate in the 1992 and 1997 elections, due to alleged violations of human rights, non-democratic elections, and whether these elections are Rugova, Thaci and other democratic ones, so you call on Serbs to go to those elections. Since you are not ashamed to invite them to these elections, you boycotted the 1992 and 1997 elections in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6852	I assume it's according to the Rules of Procedure, that you're misread? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6853	Mr Dacic, it is very touching that you are so concerned about the Serbian people and their interests, but when you create a small retrospective of everything the SPS has done in the last ten years, first of all, during the period of power in Serbia, it is measured by complete disaster. So, especially when it comes to Kosovo. You are well aware that the direct consequence of your bad policy moves is what we have in Kosovo today, first of all, the bombing in 1999, the exodus of the Serbian people, refugees, or exiled persons who had to leave Kosovo, the Kuman Agreement which is a direct signing of the capitulation in Kosovo and the fact that around a million refugees live in Serbia today, not only from Kosovo, but from Croatia and Bosnia. So that's the result of your policy. Try to measure it in millions of euros, in the amount of damage you've done to the Serbian people, because you've had your chance, you haven't taken advantage of it, and I think it's quite clear today. Your definition is not European. You declare yourself a party of European orientation. Once again, that's not enough. That you are for the European Union, first of all, must show by your actions. The smallest common denominator you stand for is simply not enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6854	That was according to the Rules of Procedure, and now Mr. Dacic's replica. Mr. Dacic, I can ask you, as well as Mr. Yevtic, I don't know how the replica was caused, but what I've been listening to for the last six minutes has nothing to do with the subject. Be nice, come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6855	Of course, I have the right to a replica, as Mr. Jevtic spoke in the Rules of Procedure. In any case, I would like to repeat once again that the relationship to this text of resolution is not a relationship to the European Union. The relationship towards the European Union is seen in the harmonisation of our legislation compared to the European Union. At a time when the DS was in power, the law was passed that people could be arrested without the court's decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the European Union. At the time of DS government, there was media censorship through the government's communications bureau. At the time of the DS government, the highest people in this country were associated with criminal circles and affairs. At the time of DS authorities, we have not adopted any resolution on joining the European Union. On the contrary, we were imposed sanctions by the European Union for sugar smuggling, which were also done by members or friends of the DS. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us not now share Serbia again, based on this resolution, whether we are in favour or against European integration. There is no evidence of loyalty to Europe and the idea of commonity in Europe by having to listen to everything Europe requires of us. If our country enters the European Union to give up Kosovo and Metohija, as Holbrooke said that Serbia should choose between Kosovo and Europe, if the condition is that our country enters the European Union and the internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue, if the condition is that our country enters the European Union and that all those requested by Carla del Ponte are extradited to The Hague, if all of this is a condition for entering the European Union, there is a big question as to what Serbia gets by entering the European Union, and there will be no more Serbia. So let us not ask such questions. As far as DS and President Boris Tadic are concerned, the patriarch has also urged Tadic not to invite Serbs to the elections. Now they remembered that the patriarch had no right to interfere in politics, and when he was against Milosevic and coming to the demonstrations, it could have been. Also, you'll see what demonstrations look like against someone. I seem to have heard that a Serb demonstration from Kosovo is scheduled for Monday in front of the so-called. People's offices, so they'll see the President of the Republic love him.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6856	The word of the Messenger of the people is Dejan Mikavica; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Vukelić. I thank you for understanding all those who have given up on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6857	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a series of views which, in practice, refer to the presentation of party or party opinions, allow me to say a few words myself concerning the resolution on joining the European Union. In this way, I have an obligation, given that I have participated in the work of the Committee on European Integration to a lesser or greater extent. The resolution on the accession of the European Union, which lies before us, is or should, in a certain way, represent the permanent political definition of our country, a kind of, I would say, an over-party political imperative or an idea of how we can better, more fundamentally and more successfully define our both national and national interests. To achieve that, what we have heard more than once is necessary, I would say, in my best intentions, to encourage this agreement, the agreement, the political consensus. When I say that, I can't help but think that, basically, a small number of those issues that require political consensus, how small their numbers are, and yet they are, by their weight and by their seriousness, extremely significant. Usually, when we say that we need an agreement, we cannot help but remember the constitutional issue, let's say, which I personally find very important in terms of achieving a proper political consensus and in this assembly; integration issues, which are now on the agenda and on the issues of Kosovo and Metohija, which we have taken a position in this assembly and allowed the Government to fulfill what is the confidence of all MPs in this assembly. All that came later, these days, and as for statements that the unfree Serbs should also freely go to these elections, certainly represent an inappropriate statement and examples of the irresponsibility they represent, fortunately, I would say, a certain kind of precedent in our political life. So we remain in the view and in the position that we have made here, in that decision that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija should be resolved in one democratic way, in accordance with those principles that we consider important and in line with the national interests that we must hold in this assembly. When it comes to joining the European Union, I would like us all to make it possible for each other and not to allow one party, two parties, three parties or individual parties in this assembly and their representatives to retain some exclusive right to interpret the meaning and content of European integration, the process of adherence to the European Union. I am deeply convinced and I want to remain convinced that there is no MP in this assembly who does not consider that the process of joining the European Union is something that needs our country, something that is useful. If that is the case, then the question is why would it be an component or element in the political programmes of individual parties, and in other parties it would not be the case. What are the motives that need to share us in this regard? I was truly convinced that we wouldn't get to the point where we split up. I also believe that it is very important in each party's political programmes to introduce this definition, a team before all the political parties in this assembly are in a certain way the heritage of political ideology and the political tradition of the European Union and the states in the European environment. When, in yesterday's debate, one of the MPs of the National Assembly came out with the the thesis that, as he has alluded, the dark 19th century, certain principles and certain political traditions that do not correspond to today, I would remind him that in the last century, Serbian political parties were created precisely on the basis of European parliamentary democracy, European principles of liberalism and democracy, in the light of the civil European resolution and to inherit that tradition. All Serbian parties thus emerged, on these grounds, and all Serbian political elites inherited European political tradition, building or helping build their country, relying on the experiences of political elites in our European environment. If so, and I think so, then I believe that all these discussions concerning who has some privilege of determining what it should be like to join the European Union, which are the conditions and interpretations that are in relation to it, which should be fulfilled, are quite unnecessary and unnecessary. I would appeal to all MPs in the National Assembly that, regardless of certain, less or more reasoned remarks concerning the text of the resolution, they once again consider that what stands in the text of the resolution on joining the European Union is far better and more useful than what may have been left out, that there is this useful space, possible space around which it is possible to reach an agreement, that what stands in that text of the resolution is far better than what may not be best stated in that text. You have special parts concerning commitment and insists on the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to insist on preservation, I would say, functional federal states. You have parts that directly point out that we will stick to what represents political stability in Southeast Europe. You have those parts and those specifics that concern strict respect for human and minority rights, the harmonisation of our right, the rights of our country with the assets of European law. If you look closely at the wording of the resolution, you will see that the good qualities of this text resolution greatly exceed those that we can, and we do not have to, have such difficult discussions that often have a narrow party omen. If we accept that based on this text of resolution, it is still possible to better define the strategic interests of our country, then I am convinced that we can agree on this text of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6858	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Mircic then has the word of the People's MP Milorad Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6859	I apologize, Mr. President, but I would like you to, under Article 96, use your rights to set a break at 13.00 hours, for the simple reason that Serbia also knows colleagues in parliament, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have announced their arrival with the president of the Assembly and with the president of individual committees. I'd like to ask you, since it's about this subject that we're discussing, and it's primarily about how they're forced by force and pain that made them remind the president at 13.00 hours. So as not to be replaced by someone in the congregation, the congregation works normally, and we talk about and how significant problems they face. I propose this from the best intentions in front of the SRS and most MPs in the Assembly, that at 13.00 hours we set a break, because whether it will be at 13.00 or 14.00 hours, that is, conditionally speaking, irrelevant to those problems they face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6860	Thank you. I am obliged to inform everyone, thank you for helping, as is the case with the difficult state issues, certain groups, whether they are political or non-political, on this subject they are looking for a discussion with one of the board presidents or the president of the Assembly, and that is part of the usual activities. Of course yesterday the president of the assembly accepted. The head of the Security Committee, Mr. Mircic and the chairman of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, Mr. Prorokovic, accepted talks with representatives of political structures with Kosovo, representatives of municipalities in Kosovo, and the talks will be held today at 13.00 hours. All we need to know is that once again the request for these representatives to be informed that the Parliament, as you know, has unanimously reached a conclusion on who is authorized to do something and that will only be confirmed. That is precisely the desire for the congregation to work and there is no reason for the congregation to pause while the authorities are doing their job. Of course, the second vice president will lead the session here, as usual. Thank you for your initiative. The People's Messenger, Milorad Vucelic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare himself, Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6861	Dear President, honourable MPs, the SPS is for Europe. It is not just by declarative pledges as a good part of the parties, nor is it according to current political fashion or some incomprehensible story of Euro-Atlantic integration, whatever they mean. The SPS for Europe because of its own strength and perseverance, which it drew out of citizens' confidence, brought Serbia a multi-party constitution, fought for the values of the rule of law and the division of power, defended the values of the social state and preserved the provision by which Serbia preserved the state of all citizens living in it, not this or that people. The SPS has preserved this European and civilizational fluid, and perhaps it was better to say it, despite fierce opposition from the entire opposition today, today's opposition and today's authorities or more precisely the DOS-based parties. The SPS is for Europe because, during its rule, the Republic of Serbia remains the only country in the entire region that has preserved its multiethnic structure and that has by no means lied to Serbian and SPS haters about that time, has not contributed to the change in Serbia's ethnic composition. The SPS is for Europe because it knew that there was no serious historical nation that would not defend its territory when it was exposed to attacks by terrorists and murderers, as Kosovo and Metohija were exposed by Albanian separatists. The SPS is for Europe because it knew that there was no European state that would accept or recognise the secession of any square centimeter of this territory. It was the SPS who adopted all the refugees, regardless of race, religion and the confessional belongings they found in Serbia. But this paper that is here today, and which is pretentious and without any basis called by some motion for a resolution on EU accession, has one prosaic propaganda goal, the second one is dlative, to conceal the absence of real will, the real act of actually entering Europe. There are no declarations, no capitulations, unconditional landings in Europe, we have to, we have no choice but to lose our territory. It enters Europe by recognising the values of the country that enters it. What happened in joining Europe and this story to Europe, Europe without borders, this big game? It has happened that, as never before, the crisis in southern Serbia has opened up to the point that we have citizens who no one calls for presidential elections or parliamentary elections, nor commits to vote, to integrate into Serbia's legal system, to be voters, to be Serbian citizens, to recognise Serbia. No, they are under the authority to vote only in local elections, to avoid European values, not to consume their civil rights, but only to work on the separation of a part of the territory. Here is the way for Europe to legalise and legitimise Kosovo's provisional institutions, and that is clear. It's politics. Who gave Mr. Boris Tadic the right to give up and who gave the promoters of this resolution the right to renounce Resolution 1244? Who avoided this condition? Is it possible that the more permanent institution of The Hague is a tribunal than the SB Resolution and are both conditions and a cease-fire of war and guaranteeing Serbia sovereignty. Who gives the right to Mr. Tadic or anyone else to give up these terms? Who gives the conditions to start counting the days when the Serbs should be returned? This is where we count the time from March 17th. I guess it counts time from Christ, not from 17 March and every 17 March, there will be fewer Serbs and we will set conditions for those who return before 17 March. How can Europe be recognised in the fact that the President of the Republic does not respect the will of the majority, the will of the citizens, the will of Parliament, the will of the government. What is this European value? Is there any European country where power and law are not respected? Can Europe be identified in the flagrant violation of the constitution offered by this paper? Is unconstitutionalness, illegality, lack of division of power, not respecting the will of most Europeans? It's not. So this is what appears here as a European pathway and as the liquids of these last years on the European pathway. Look what happened in Vojvodina. We silence over the fact that it resents Serbia for receiving refugees. Imagine the discrimination they offer us from the resolution and from the explanation of various European institutions, that by receiving refugees, we have violated the national structure of Vojvodina, that we are respecting the most sacred right of one's life, have we applied any rule to restore any law, the basis for bringing people back to live or in Croatia that enters the EU or Kosovo under Resolution 1244? There's not one, and I don't want to waste any time talking about "Sabre. " I don't want to mention time, time is wasting because of the affairs that have been committed, the rights of those proposals have been misused to bring the death penalty for a few days, for a month until we kill who we need, and then we move on. It's not Europe. These are not European values. Those of you who do not respect these values can insinuate and try to insinuate part by piece of territory, and it is not just Cosmet and it is not only that, but also south of Serbia, it is Vojvodina. It's about nobody mentioning the Dayton Agreement. Is the Dayton Agreement, as a peace agreement, a guarantee of the survival of Republika Srpska? Yes, it is. Is it possible that it is possible for our proposings when they are already putting a Partnership for Peace where it does not belong, which is not the institution of the European Union, that they have forgotten both the resolution and the Dayton Agreement and other obligations that we have to complete, but rather went to share Serbia. The aim of this paper is to declare the false Europeans who have done everything I've counted here, get another point in the propaganda sense in front of some in Europe and say, we are for Europe, and those others who respect European values, and that is the SPS, they are not a European party. Europeanism is not proven by mere declarations, but by concrete pro-European work. The latest invitation by Mr Tadic to the vote is the most flagrant violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Parliament's decision, leaving Resolution 1244. Who allowed President Tadic to take and reject Resolution 1244, which institution was it decided on? What are the new conditions, who has agreed on these new conditions. Who was working. This is a whole empty story. The UN tribunal and the Partnership for Peace will be discussed specifically on our amendments. A business that is constantly based on something that is unconditional, it's not co-operation. There is no unconditional cooperation. Co-operation is always conditioned by those who enter it. That story about when we all enter Europe, then all Serbs will live together in Europe. You know what, tulips and carnations and roses live and have them all over Europe, but they're not a nation, they're not a state, they're a species of plants. No one argues that Serbs will be, etc., but whether they will be as nations, as states, as states carrying their own interests, we are talking about. Europe does not know such institutions that they do not know who they are or where they are going. The SPS is for Europe and for that Serbia who knows what it was, who knows what it is, who is aware of its interests and who knows where it is going and why it is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6862	Thank you. Here, you will have a replica, a first proposaler, and otherwise I ask the speakers not only to stick to the topic, but at least to correctly present what it says in the documents discussed and referred to you too, Miss Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6863	Here were the subject of European standards, and they are certainly the subject of this resolution. First, I would refer to Resolution 1244 in this section, which is a classic replica. Namely, no part of it denies UN Security Council Resolution 1244. According to the Kosovo Resolution adopted unanimously by this Assembly and according to the government plan of the Republic of Serbia to resolve Kosovo's issues, which was unanimously adopted by this Assembly, Resolution 1244 is the only basic and starting document when it comes to all issues related to Kosovo and its possible status, and Resolution 1244 is unequivocal in that sense, i.e. Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. Of course, even the promoters of this resolution, respecting the decisions made by this Assembly, treat Resolution 1244 itself. If we're seriously acting as MPs, then it's something that's in itself understood. Therefore, I cannot accept, on behalf of the promoter, that in such a context, and in terms of this resolution, the Security Council Resolution is mentioned. As regards European standards, European standards are objective and cannot be subject to subjective interpretations. Yesterday, I spoke by explaining the resolution on what conditions are, or standards for membership in the European Union, as a set of facts. I continue to pray that we stick to the facts, not to interpret them as it depends on party membership politically suits us. Subjective interpretation is a legitimate right, especially in this Assembly, but it is unacceptable in a situation relating to certain criteria that are objectively given. In that sense, I have to give one personal attitude, and trying all the time to avoid any subjective and even less party interpretations. If we look at things rationally and objectively between 1991 and 2000 in Serbia, the minimum of European standards is not respected. To talk about respecting European standards during the period when Serbia was unfortunately involved in the most difficult conflicts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, at a time when Serbia did not respect the basic European standards concerning all aspects of life, at a time when Serbia was in the most difficult isolation in its history and at a time when Serbia was most humiliated in its history, I must say, and I regret to say it from this pay phone, but the least I can say is hypocritically about European orientation and European standards. European standards are a dynamic category and Serbia, thank God, has entered the process of European integration and will take time to adapt all these standards to its specificities. It is a path that is irrevocable and Serbia will never return to that dark age again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6864	Replica, Mr. Jevtic, then the replica of Mr. Vucelic's exposure, then Mr. Vuceliæ at the exhibition of Ksenija Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6865	Thank you, Mr. President. The European SPS's path must first and foremost be determined by solving a rather schizoid situation in this party. So, this party received about 20 seats in the last parliamentary elections in December 2003, just putting it on the list as the bearer of Slobodan Milosevic. I think it is well known here and also for the citizens of Serbia that Slobodan Milosevic, as a political phenomenon of the 20th century, is exactly the image of European values. So you have to inside your own party to solve a prejudicial question. So, are you in Slobodan Milosevic's party, whether he's your boss or if you have another boss. So this is the beginning of your European integration process. Secondly, you mentioned that European value cannot possibly be a loss or trade in its own territories. I'm glad that after fourteen years you became self-critical, because exactly the whole process of losing Serbian territories, starting with Knin, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, has just been caused and directly caused by your poor policies. If you're talking about calling elections in Kosovo as a violation of Resolution 1244, I need to ask you a question, in which part, and did you read that resolution at all. The second question is the resolution on Kosovo, discussed by the parliament and decided. I don't think there's any mention in that resolution that it's forbidden to invite Serbs to go to this election. So, don't change the thesis, because if you want to talk about an active contribution to European integration, first you have to see what the principles and standards that actually mean the way to Europe are.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6866	Mr. Vukelic, do you want a replica of Ksenija Milivojevic's exposure? I can't give it to you, because you didn't mention it personally or as a party. You can call the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You're referring to a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6867	A 100th and a misquote. I can't really accept it as an objective fact of subjective sighting of Miss Milivojevic. Indeed, her subjective experience of objective reality is not a fact. It's her vision and it's still too much for me, with all the sympathy I have for a woman MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6868	Apply a member of the Rules of Procedure and tell where you are misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6869	I am subjectively interpreted wrongly because it has been found that it is one of my subjectivising the objective reality of European values and European integration, and it is one of the most subjective, biased and unskilled views of the promoters when it comes to European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6870	Now you've explained it in detail. Here, I'll give you back your time. Now it's clear to everyone what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6871	So it can't be accepted in any way to imply something that isn't there. There is something very explicit here, and what is unacceptable to us, and to God means what is acceptable and what is not and what is meant. Simply, the document as it is is unacceptable, and now it just keeps showing how unacceptable it is. As for Resolution 1244 and Serbia's sovereignty, the document, which is why it is not there, the sovereignty of Serbia in Kosovo has been guaranteed and sovereignty of the resolution in Kosovo has been recognised. So giving up on it isn't an accident. You are deliberately giving up because your policy is complete and your speech on the final solution to Kosovo, for every official of the state of Serbia, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and anyone else, is a commitment. The final status of Kosovo exists. It is the province of Serbia. This constitution has been resolved, and Serbia's territorial sovereignty over Kosovo has been recognised. Why do you give it up in advance? Why bet on losing? You bet 'cause you're rooting for it. It's your job and your goal to do it. As for the gentleman from the Democratic Party, he is in the enthusiasm of regulating his own party and we see how he has set out to regulate relations in other parties. Let him face his electoral defeat in this election, over this disaster that they have lost 70 municipalities. Let them think about it, let them arrange it, let them cry on their President of the Republic's shoulder, let them follow him on this dirt that leads them to ruin. I don't mind. But as far as Slobodan Milosevic is concerned, he is indeed, you said well, European value, that is correct. He's a historical figure and he's the president of the Socialist Party and that's true. It's exactly the sequence of all your internal acts, the attacks on his family, the discrimination of his family, the various other pursuits, the non-defense of the state, the annulment of the law, that really defends the national interests of this country and this people. You are also doing this resolution, you have put in the hands of Carla del Ponte to judge the history of the Serbian people and to judge the past. It's your resolution, but we'll talk about it when we talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6872	Here, you have a replica on Mr. Vucelic's Rules of Procedure or as a Proposer. As a proposer, and you have a replica of exposure to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6873	Who I'm talking about here about facts, so I'm going to put a few facts back together. Kosovo and Metohija have regretted my great regret and probably not all of us have been under the practical sovereignty of Serbia since 1999. More specifically, by signing the Kumanovo Agreement, which made Kosovo a protectorate of the international community. It is a sad fact resulting from the policy that the then government in Serbia led in Kosovo. It's a fact and it's simple, as much as you want it, we can't escape, whether we like it or not. What is up to us is to provide the best possible negotiating position for all those issues that will be opened in this respect in the next period. But Kosovo, formally-factually, is not under Serbia's sovereignty, and that is our sad and also objective reality. As for subjective experiences, I admit that I have a subjective experience, and my subjective experience between 1991 and 2000 is that unfortunately I have lived in the objective reality of the ruling party at the time, and that is a tragedy that unfortunately happened to the entire Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6874	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6875	Mr. Wolfellic, just to explain my exposure, I don't think you understood me very well. I did not say that Mr. Slobodan Milosevic is European value. I said he's a paradigm of European values across Europe, in all countries. As for the results of the last local elections, I must tell you that after the first round, the Democratic Party won over 460,000 votes. Ask yourself how much your party won. So minimum seven times less. In the second round, the number of municipalities where the Democratic Party won direct elections for mayor is three times the number of municipalities where you won. I don't know how you can express yourself in such a way that we lost this election. The Democratic Party has won power in the largest number of municipalities of all parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6876	You have a replica of a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6877	When it comes to effective sovereignty, and when someone steals something from your house, they're practically in possession until they find it and the police return it. Therefore, do not justify these things. Why would we admit and legalize the state of play? Not every effective state has to be a legal state. You must be taught by someone who talks about it. So, if someone actually took something, stole it, as soon as the police find it, they'll give it back to you, etc. You have to fight for it and you have to report that theft, and if you're a politician, you have to stand up for one such policy. Mr. from the Democratic Party, you said it again, and I am now convinced that he is a paradigm of European value. Or you don't know what that word means. You praised him even more in the second performance, and I'm glad you understood that, because historical facts are independent of these political and your current, and this is a historical fact. He is a paradigm of European values. You're right, you've said it great, I congratulate you, you've surpassed your party's narrowness and tightness and congratulations. You have confessed to what history must admit, and you have politically confessed. It's not good that you did it, but it's good that anyone did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6878	Here you are, on behalf of the promoter, MP Ksenija Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6879	Another little correction. Nobody stole anything from us. We signed, i.e. signed then by the government in Serbia, the Kumanski Agreement in 1999, so on behalf of the Republic of Serbia signed that fact state, there is a document and the document remains in force. Therefore, nothing has been stolen from us, which we have not agreed to. You can't agree to put part of your territory under the international protectorate, so then you say, well, that's actually what they stole from us, simply because it's not like that. You have also signed this factual state formalized and it is one legal fact, because it is the answer and because it is a document signed on one hand by the Republic of Serbia, or those who represented it in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6880	Please, just let me tell you-- I'll decide on the replicas. Here, you have a minute and we'll finish the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6881	The contract, Miss Milivojevic, says it's ours. The Commission notes that Resolution 1244 and everything else derived from it are the conditions of the end of the war, the conditions of the end of aggression. Therefore, it is not that sovereignty is not recognised, but sovereignty is recognised, territorial integrity is recognised. These are still UN forces, whose members we are. They're not officially NATO forces. These are international forces both in fact and legally, and as you will, Serbia is sovereign over it. What you do is not to be sovereign, what you want with this resolution and all other behavior, and by calling for elections, and what you do, and what you do to make it part of other people's territory, and that temporary institutions that are regulated by that resolution, what you want to cancel and that resolution is your policy. So that's your policy, that's your strategy, and that's how you see the way to Europe. You see a path to Europe without Kosovo, without the south of Serbia, without Vojvodina, without borders in general. Your Europeanism has no limits. You Serbs want to make a kind of flower. I've already said, either tulips, or white ones, beavers, which aren't everywhere, and that's what matters to you. You don't care about anything else. You want to reach passports, which are important to you, and when you get to them, you will crush the articulation of both nations and states, and its institutions and its territories. This is your policy and that is why we are against this view of Europe and against and against such Europeanism, because it is neither Europe nor Europeanism. This is exactly the issue and violation of basic European values.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6882	Thank you. On behalf of the proposing MP, Ksenija Milivojevic. Here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6883	I agree, sovereignty has been established, that is, the continuity of sovereignty exists, but then no one stole from us, since it was conditions for the end of the war, as interpreted here, and then we can't talk about it being stolen from us, where we have total confusion. First we hear a story about how we were stolen, then we hear -- no, no, actually it's not, there's a UN force. So, when we're politically suited to being NATO forces, then they're NATO forces, and when we're more comfortable with being the United Nations, then they're the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please stick to the facts and don't give yourself the authority to interpret anyone's policy. The works always say a lot more than words. They know Serbia's citizens by 2000 and know and recognise what they have been doing since 2000. So, I really can't, nor want to give myself the right to interpret anyone's politics. It is the legitimate right of every party, and I pray that what is in this context and respect, and read facts, especially when you talk about Kosovo, which, I remind you, is not a party but a state issue, read facts and do not, if at one point you are comfortable with one force being in Kosovo, and in the other, allow yourself to do so. You must not allow yourself for the simple reason that not only do you not know the facts but you are playing with the territory of the country that is most at risk at the moment, and no serious citizen of Serbia, let alone an MP in parliament, must allow himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6884	Please, no, no... Please, be careful, I'm calling for Article 97 of Section 3 and there's no more replicas in this matter. [[Sagar.]] The People's Messenger, Vojkan Tomic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared. (Some MPs continue to insist on winning the right to a word. ) No, no, really, I said - you can only do it by the Rules of Procedure, and since I am calling for Article 97(3) of Decision... (National MP Ivica Dacic insists further. ) Mr Dacic, let me tell you, when I called on the position of Article 3 of the 97th Chairman to decide who has the right to reply. This time I'm going to give you a replica, and this is what we really end up with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6885	I waited patiently for this round of replicas and violations of the Rules of Procedure to pass, and I reported on the presentation of Milos Jevtic, who mentioned the SPS and the results achieved in the local elections. The SPS, or its mayoral candidates, won 25 municipalities in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the Democratic Party should really start to account, and it has lost relative to the number of its candidates, who have entered the second round, or let it look at where they have all received and where they have lost everything. The SPS MPs and the New Serbia-DSS know this well, the SPS MPs well, and even some of the smaller parties who defeated them in those municipalities. As far as I'm concerned, I just want to call all the MPs... I also said - SRS, so it seems to me that we are moving away from the topic by entering each other's discussions on something that is not about today's topic - the European Union. You know why the SPS is against this text. We are talking about that it was dark in Serbia during the 10-year-old SPS government, or that Serbia had no European standards, or what it says in the light of this resolution, that Serbia was closer to the European Union in 1999 than in 2000. So you're saying that in Serbia, at a time of communism and a one-party system, there were more rights than in a multiparty. Then don't complain when someone tells you you're a titoist. Also, Mrs Milivojevic is talking about the power she had until 2000 and since 2000. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the G17 Plus, you have played against DOS authorities in the last elections, and on the basis of this policy against the Democratic Party, you have received so many mandates. How come you're counting all this on your authority now? And secondly, after what Miss Milivojevic said about the SPS, if I were you, I would never agree to be in some kind of power with the party you think I am. Are ministerial places and chairs more important to you than principles - that's a question for you. If that's what you think of the SPS, then don't ask for our votes. (Chairman: Please, time.) Ladies and gentlemen, take care of it. Because this story isn't just a story against what's been going on for the past 10 years. We blame ourselves if we talk about the fact that in 10 years we're the authorities that blame us for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6886	Please, it's time for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6887	And the persecution of the Albanians and the Muslims and the Croats. So, Serbia is on its own for everything. It's against national and national interest. It's not against the SPS, don't forget that. So, generally, I invite everyone back on the subject. Let's go back, discuss what's on the subject. You admit that a partnership for peace is not the place in this document, and yet you put it. So, because you don't want a consensus on these topics, and if you don't want a consensus on these topics, then you're going to have to make an effort to reach the parliamentary majority, but at the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the laws proposed by your G17 ministers are going on, and if you think so about the SPS, there's no problem, there are Democrats, there are radicals, and they're going to vote for your legal projects. No problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6888	On behalf of the motionary, I apologize, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to correct the untruth I've been told. So, the G17 plus doesn't ask for SPS votes, nor has she ever asked for it, nor is it in the government with the SPS. If there were any arrangements, Mr. Dacic, tell the public who you made them with, because with G17 plus you didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6890	The People's Messenger, Vojkan Tomic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared. Since Vojkan Tomic is not here, here you go, Mrs. Radet. You have to wait after the squirrel.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6891	Ladies and gentlemen, since the G17 MPs obviously misread my words, let me make them clear. The day before the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a meeting was held in the DSS rooms where Vojislav Kostunica, Dragan Marsican, Miroljub Labus, Vuk Draskovic, Velimir Ilic and Ivica Dacic were present. So much for everything and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6892	The People's MP, Verica Radeta, has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zoran Ćirković.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6893	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday someone here said that it might have been a good idea for the motion for a resolution on joining the European Union to be published in the media so that the public of Serbia knew what we were discussing for two days. So I'm going to talk about the motion for this resolution and its individual points. Point 2 speaks of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expressing its full readiness, and then, by one, to meet all the necessary preconditions needed to speed up integration into the European Union. I ask you, gentlemen of the DOS, former and present, who has been standing in your way so far to do this, who has defended you so far, or who could have forbade you, given the fact that you had and that you have a majority, and maybe you don't, if what Ivica Dacic says is true. Furthermore, he says the National Assembly expresses its full readiness for respect for human rights and minority rights. Until an hour ago, I was convinced that no one here thinks there is any doubt about some violated minority rights of national minorities in Serbia, but in the meantime, we received a resolution on the harassment of minorities in Vojvodina adopted by the European Parliament at a session of 16 September 2004. This means, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian government, that you are actually standing on the European path of Serbia. We have been building and building healthy international relations in Vojvodina for decades, you have artificially internationalized this problem, and here today we have this resolution, and then you say again that someone is realistic, and someone is declaring that it is to enter European integration. It's obvious that you didn't, because if you did, we wouldn't have this resolution today. Furthermore, you say the National Assembly expresses its full readiness to meet all international obligations, not to read to the end, regarding the UN tribunal. Don't you co-operate with the Hague tribunal since 2000 in every possible and impossible way, because whatever they tell you, whoever they point to, you meet exactly what you're asked to do. First, you kidnap Slobodan Milosevic, take him to The Hague. Next, you deceived Mr. Sainovic and the others, so I don't list them all, that they surrender voluntarily, and then they will defend themselves from freedom. You arrested Mr. Sljivancan. You wrote an indictment in Belgrade against Vojislav Seselj that he would voluntarily go to The Hague, you were rallying support completely illegal to General Lukic and what we lacked - nothing. If we get sanctions, are we bombed - we're not. You had an obligation to extradite four generals, and you didn't. This government for how many months has the obligation to hand them over, it doesn't extradite them, of course, it doesn't have to hand them over. So nothing terrible is happening because you do not respect some of your obligations to the Hague tribunal. You do as much as you want, you do as much as you're asked. I am telling you that co-operation with The Hague tribunal is not a key reason for us not to enter into European integration. You say, the National Assembly expresses its full readiness to further develop and improve all kinds of regional co-operation, regional initiatives and co-operation with neighbours. You're doing great, you sold the Serbian market to Slovenians, Croats, isn't that what you want to cover with this position in this resolution now? You further say, it points to the need for the more effective work of the joint bodies of the Serbia-Montenegro state union and the formation of all necessary institutions, as well as to take measures to strengthen co-operation with the European Union. We know this is like this, but you need to convince one part of the Serbian government, because it is those who advocate the separation of Serbia-Montenegro, and then yesterday we are mentioned as something ugly to them, therefore, our dream of a great Serbia. He who insists on the separation of Serbia-Montenegro dreams of a great Albania, because God forbid if Serbia-Montenegro splits up in two years Montenegro will be part of that great Albania. You undertake to bring the legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with the legal assets of the European Union to a priority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, including the introduction of special procedures to improve the efficiency of the process. My people, who has stood by you and who has been in your way, why have you not done so before? We spent two days on this piece of paper that you call a resolution, which really means nothing, and instead, we could respect this point 4 so that maybe we could discuss some law that needs to be harmonised with European legislation. Yesterday, the Deputy Prime Minister here told us a story about Gekna. He says, first he says that Europe is calling us, and now I'm asking, he's not here, but I'm asking him in public -- then who refused that call? Does someone have to answer why they refused to call us if Europe calls, and then says what's about Gekna, says whether we're going to enter Europe, yes, we will, and when we enter Europe, we don't know. That's really amazing. We all know that we do not know when we will enter Europe, because entering Europe is not up to us, but entering Europe depends on when Europe will be ready to see us. Your friend Solana said the other night he didn't even have a conversation before 2012. So, no talking, and then a possible procedure. Also, Mr. Labus said there's a harmonisation with Montenegro. I really don't understand who the authorities are complaining about here. Who's stopping you from working on that harmonisation? You may miss Ceda Jovanovic, as it seems he was the only one who did it successfully. Now he's gone, and there's no one else to do it. The Deputy Prime Minister also said something yesterday that is terrible, just as terrible as the invitation by Boris Tadic to the Serbs to go to the polls. He announces Kosovo and Metohija's status will finally be discussed in 2005. Doesn't Mr. Labus know of Resolution 1244, in which the status of Kosovo and Metohija is defined and there is no change. That's what this National Assembly said, unanimously. Now Labus, as if he fell from heaven, tells of something, just as Boris Tadic invites Serbs to the election opposite Article 2. The constitution, contrary to the resolution of the National Assembly, is the opposite of the Government of Serbia's programme, in the end, the opposite of the votes of its party's representatives in this parliament. I also found it interesting that the motionary's representative said that this resolution has been working since February. Imagine miracles, these two sides of the text that don't mean anything, they've been working since February. I can't figure that out. He also said that we should make this resolution because it should bind the government. As far as I know, and I'm sure I know, everything we do here and everything we bring here is binding primarily on the government. The government is an executive body, we have set them up and everything we do is bound by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It was also said that this resolution was the result of some real consensus. Whom do I ask? Six MPs, apparently, agreed, but if a general consensus was said to have been reached, then it would have been normal to expect the largest political party in Serbia and in this parliament -- the SRS to be involved in this conversation. Neither did any of us ask about this, nor did any of us consult on this. It is really interesting that the representative of the motion party is a representative of the G17 Plus, which, in these elections, seems to me, has not crossed the censorship, which is not my problem, but I am talking about the false fact that this paper was written on the basis of the agreement of all relevant factors in Serbia. I want to repeat what you heard from all my colleagues who spoke here. The SRS is for European integration, it is not a demagogy, because we are the opposition. Demagogy is, ladies and gentlemen, when someone is in power and when they say that we want to join European integration, we are for European integration, and nothing really makes us join that Europe and join European integration. So you are demagogues, and we represent the view that we are for Europe, but of course, in a different way than what you offer. Demagogy is also your story that the lack of co-operation or lack of co-operation with The Hague is an obstacle to Serbia-Montenegro's entry into Europe. I will remind you, and first of all, for the sake of the public of Serbia, I will say the real reasons why we have not entered European integration so far, which is why we are much further today than we were in 2000. The reasons are: absolutely endangered human rights and freedoms at the time of the famous unconstitutional action "Sabre". The reason is the sugar affair, which has not been enlightened to this day. The reason is for the criminal privatisation of the C Market, the Center of Product, the Book of Milos, and not to add any more. The reason is that individual parties making up the government should separate Serbia-Montenegro. The reason is the crime of military reform. The reason is "Resavska School" in passing laws absolutely inapplicable to our terms. The reason has been corrupt and incompetent since 2000. The government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic and part of the government of Vojislav Kostunica were corrupt, and the other part is unable to run the state, it is obvious. The reason we're not in Europe is an affair about selling electricity. The reason is to steal votes in the assembly. The reason is the theft of the council mandates. The main and main reason why we are not in Europe is the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. trying to create conditions to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. The confirmation of this was the day before yesterday's invitation to Boris Tadic, who, completely ignoring the views of both the National Assembly and the government, ignoring Serbia's constitution, urged Serbs to go to the polls with a very strange explanation. Boris Tadic said, it was also heard in this hall: "The election boycott is not guaranteed that it will not happen again on March 17th, there is no guarantee that there will be an improvement of human rights and freedom in Kosovo." Does he guarantee that going to the elections will prevent some new 17 March or improve the status of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, it does not guarantee, but says – if something does not happen within 90 days, it says, there is no other one, but it will invite these possibly elected representatives of Serbs to withdraw from those institutions. Not Serbs in Kosovo are pawns that Boris Tadic is putting them on this one, now on that cube. First of all, it must respect the opinion of Serbs from Kosovo, it must respect all institutions, however, must respect the public of Serbia, who made a negative statement all day yesterday about his call for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to go to these elections. All that was happening yesterday was an absolute confirmation that the SRS, or our parliamentary group, was absolutely right when we asked to initiate the procedure for impeachment of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. I am fully convinced that we will finish this job, because I do not believe that there is someone who will not accept the reasons that we have cited here, the reasons for which the whole of Serbia has been buzzing for two days, the whole Serbian public. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this resolution be withdrawn, because it is really pointless that they tried to protect Tadic's call for elections to this resolution, there is no point. It's all clear, it's all made public. It is clear to everyone in Serbia today that Boris Tadic has betrayed voters and remains faithful to Solana and Carly del Ponte. That's why he went to America right after his appointment, which is why he wrote to dear George. Of course, it's his own problem, but from the point of view of the state and what a big problem. So I suggest you withdraw this resolution, that we all say together we're sorry we spent two days on what doesn't mean anything. I would like to point out once again, that someone does not abuse and say – here, Serbian radicals are not for joining the European Union. We have, as we haven't, but it's completely unnecessary to write what every one of us knows, something that's generally accepted and wasted the time of the National Assembly and the Members of the People's Parliament, instead of doing something that makes us really citizens here, something that's really going to see some benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6894	Here you go, Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6895	I can truly accept that there are political views from this pay phone, but I cannot accept that they are false, to explain it again. Representatives of the SRS and members of the SRS Committee on European Integration have on several occasions explicitly refused to participate at any stage in the development of this resolution. I accept your position that she's pointless and I don't mind, you have the right to do so, but you can't say from this pay phone that no one asked you because you've been asked on several occasions. One of the reasons why this resolution is being prepared since February is that several attempts were to reach a general consensus, i.e. MPs and representatives of the SRS participate in writing a resolution with their suggestions. Therefore, it is true and all members of the Committee on European Integration, including representatives of the SRS, know that truth. Once again, I will repeat what I said yesterday - a member of the Committee on European Integration is also the deputy president of the SRS, i.e. the head of the party's parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament. To my great regret, he only appeared at the constitutive session of that committee. He may feel that there is no need to participate in the work of that committee, or that this committee is not important, but there is a way to do so. The responsible parliamentary groups shall delegate those MPs who are interested in that portfolio, or those on which the Committee is concerned. So I'm not going into the internal decisions of the parties, I'm just finding out that in his work, and especially in the work to prepare this resolution, the SRS explicitly refused to participate on several occasions. Of course, on behalf of the promoter, I don't accept the motion to withdraw the resolution. It is also necessary, it is necessary precisely because of what it commits, not only this one, but every next government, to treat it. Any other action would be a flagrant violation of the law. and the decisions made by this Assembly. It actually means Serbia's definition that in the process of European integration, not only takes active participation, but does what is necessary in this process, and this is not understood and cannot be understood. It's something we all have to work on. All those who are against this resolution, however much they declare themselves to the EU, actually do not want to see Serbia in the EU, because they deny everything that Serbia needs to do and must do. However, I am not afraid, ladies and gentlemen, because I know that Serbia will be in Europe, as much as anyone is specifically opposed to it. As far as time goes, I have no restriction as a proposing representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6896	Advertises Rules of Procedure National MP Verica Radeta, Article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6897	Article 100(1) The Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly say that the MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. In order for the MP to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, he should say what is indeed true. First, the motion for a resolution on EU accession -- submissions of the proposal by MPs, some individually, has nothing to do with the committee. Secondly, in light of the resolution on EU accession, it says -- taking as a starting point the clearly expressed definition of Serbian citizens, as well as the political consensus reached on the accession of the Republic of Serbia as an undeniable strategic goal... This is an undeniable strategic goal, this is one general definition, but it has nothing to do with this particular text. Today we heard that even the SPS representatives didn't accept this text, the representatives of the SRS first saw it here when we got it. What does that consensus of yours mean, then, how much do you think it takes for citizens to make that consensus? Is this more than half the citizens we represent in this House, or those one point something that you represent. I also respect these one-point citizens who support you because I respect all citizens. I reiterate once again that you do not abuse what we say we will not vote for this motion for a resolution, that you do not abuse to claim here that the SRS is not for joining the EU, because that is your abuse. We're saying something else, we're saying that this is a completely worthless paper, that this is a paper that absolutely means nothing, that this is a paper that doesn't bind anyone, and at least someone from the EU, and that's the only truth related to the position of the SRS parliamentary group relating to this paper that I'm not going to call a resolution anymore, because this is just plain typed paper. The SRS, ladies and gentlemen, I told you before, does not stand in the way of the ruling majority to do everything in this paper. I'm just asking you -- what have you been doing for four years? The day before yesterday, you celebrated the four-year-old bulldozer of the revolution. What did you do for those four years? Where are we compared to Europe? Where are we compared to ourselves? Where are our workers? On the streets instead of in factories. What have you gentlemen done? Don't hide behind ordinary papers. You work, you're a little more power, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6899	It is the duty of every MP in the National Assembly to know the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that legislators of the law are MPs, but unfortunately for me, not the assembly committees. So, if the Committee on European Integration, as it originally wished, had proposed this resolution, it would have violated the Rules of Procedure, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible under the current laws of Serbia, and it is a good opportunity to say about the initiative that the members of the Committee on European Integration are about to take, and that is that when the Rules of Procedure is changed, the committees become authorised proposings. The six MPs who signed this proposal are members of the Committee on European Integration, and this resolution has big, or any relation to this committee. As for the applicability of the resolution, I thought, and I must admit that in that belief, I was greatly helped by my colleagues in the SRS, that all decisions of this Assembly were respected. Therefore, if we take the stand to make the decision of this Assembly, if the resolution is voted, and I expect that they will, they will not, then we are destroying the National Assembly itself. The resolution contains very specific obligations and I, on behalf of the Committee on the European Integration of the Serbian Parliament, as a working body which has the right to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for answers to certain questions, i.e. to fulfil the obligations of this resolution, can certainly say that these obligations will be met in time and within the deadlines, that all MPs in this Assembly will be informed on time and in time. The bottom line is, ladies and gentlemen, taking responsibility for the work that's done. If we're not able to do that, then how do we think we can be able to run a serious state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6900	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ćirkovic, and let MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6901	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the resolution on joining the European Union, the National Assembly adopts a resolution confirming that the accelerated entry of the Republic of Serbia as members of the SCG state union into full EU membership is its strategic goal. The preparedness under a) to meet all the conditions necessary for accelerated integration into the European Union. Under b) to respect man's rights and minority rights. Under c) to fulfil all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and bring justice to persons suspected of crimes committed during the 1991-2000 war conflicts in the former SFRY area. Under g) for permanent and constructive co-operation stemming from membership in the Council of Europe and the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation. Under d) to further develop and improve all kinds of co-operation with neighbours, regional initiatives and regional co-operation, to invite citizens of Serbia, the media, political parties, NGOs, employers and trade union organisations to step up the accession process in all areas of the legislative, judicial and executive authorities, as well as any free social activities. The obligation to bring national legislation into line with the legal assets of the European Union will give priority to the work of the National Assembly, including the introduction of a special procedure to improve the efficiency of the process. The Government of the Republic of Serbia will commit to inform the National Assembly once every three months of its planned and fulfilled commitments to implement the programmes and activities needed to speed up and process the accession of the SCG state union to the European Union. That the government of the Republic of Serbia will be asked to present Serbia's national strategy for joining the EU SCG as soon as possible. The commitment to develop and improve co-operation with the European Parliament, the parliaments of the member states, the parliaments of the candidate countries for the European Union, as well as the parliaments of the countries involved in the stabilisation and accession process. The obligation to actively contribute to the affirmation of European values through the introduction of our public with the importance of our country joining the EU, i.e. joining the European family of free peoples and advanced states. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the text of a resolution I like. In part, I intervened on the existing text, believing that some things were too high and that there was no need to stand. I agree that mentioning the Partnership for Peace was unnecessary, and not because we are not going into partnership, because it is not the subject of this resolution. We can bring a second resolution in which we will present our strong position to enter the Partnership for Peace as the lobby of the NATO Pact. Otherwise, Putin's Russia is also a member of the Partnership for Peace and there is no simple problem when it comes to a certain relationship with the resolution. We can accept the idea of joining without accepting the text of the resolution. In that case, we say, we accept the idea and we propose a text like this. One parliamentary group says it declares itself to be in favour of joining, but does not offer a solution, does not suggest what the text of the resolution would be to their liking. That would be just fine, it would be best if this Assembly, by consensus, made a decision to join. We would simply declare ourselves in front of the world that we would not be European money. We want to be in a community of free European states. Now I'm going to specify the things that were in the original text, which are likely to remain. Our parliamentary group will support the text of the resolution for the reason it has always advocated European integration and association. I'm saying, what I just read is, and without the introduction, I said, a text that we would like, or to be more specific, I liked. At point 3, for example, he stood by and I didn't predict him and I don't propose and I don't advocate that he be an integral part of the resolution that this Assembly will adopt. I will read it, he said, indicates the need for the more effective work of the joint body of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the formation of all necessary institutions and the taking of measures to strengthen co-operation with the EU. It's just what the world doesn't care what we do. We say what we offer to the world and how we recommend it. As things stand, we will not be the last country in Europe to enter the European Union. Approximately, the last one will enter Mongolia, Ukraine and Belarus, if they come in at all. It is possible to enter ahead of them, if the accession process comes to life and if our pledge is serious and if our legislation is such that we can recommend ourselves... (from the hall: Moldova). I'm sorry, Moldova, a mistake, thank you for knowing the traditional geography, I know you know Belarus, etc. So I have nothing more to say about this resolution. The text of the resolution is supported with certain changes, with a certain style ironing. It is possible that the working group can reassemble and create a text that will be in the spirit of European resolutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6902	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, one warning, you have two and a half minutes, so much left.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to clarify in these two and a half minutes the position of the SPS in relation to the Partnership for Peace one more time, so there is no misunderstanding with that. The Partnership for Peace is a political programme, a NATO military programme. All those who approach the Partnership for Peace of their mutual relations regulate bilateral agreements. Nothing is meant when you become a member of the Partnership for Peace if you want to build special relations with any member, you have to resolve it in a way that the two members agree on the same questions. It's not good to get set up. We have a clear attitude towards the European Union and a clear attitude towards Euro-Atlantic integration. No one should blame us for this, because we simply do not have anyone's mandate or give up the right to war damage, nor agree unconditionally to Serbia-Montenegro become members of the NATO Pact. No one should blame us for that. We take our own account of it to our constituents. Nobody needs to worry about what we're saying here. We only worry when we talk about what they think about it because of whose votes we are here, and we think about those whose votes we want to win and that again we or others on behalf of our party are here. You don't need to raise the temperature with that relationship. The SPS once again insists that the issue of political consensus between political parties does not make artificial differences and does not create a gap that does not exist in fact and that we are in a resolution, and that we will talk about this when the amendments come, that they do not force us to declare the resolution in issues in the resolution is not a place and that, in our understanding, they are in fact harming the state of Serbia and the people of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. So that's the question. Our position is legitimate. When we bring it out, we know what we are getting, and what we are risking, but in any case it is a clean and clear political stance, the decision of the 6th SPS Congress is to accept Serbia's entry into the European Union. We have no trouble with this, but we have a view that we will not and cannot access Euro-Atlantic integration unconditionally, without knowing whether it costs 30 or 50 billion dollars to the state of Serbia, what happens to the damage done during NATO aggression and with a whole series of open issues that cannot be overcome beyond the consensus of all political parties, all political entities, and above all that Serbian citizens have absolute benefit. Political parties exist because different approaches are expressed to address certain issues, and so we only ask that in a completely peaceful and legitimate atmosphere we talk about, and when the amendments are made, we will try to gain the trust of the other colleagues in parliament for the two amendments we have submitted and to come out of this in a manner worthy of Parliament. I think everyone has the right to their own argument and anyone with their own argument can or can't get the trust of those who need to plead. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6904	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. One explanation he wants to discuss yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6905	Due to the misreading, since there was an answer here first thing in the afternoon, and I thank you for getting the text of the resolution. I'm sorry I was right, because I don't like this resolution to be adopted for Serbia, and I'm sorry it's harder than the resolution that was adopted when we got the sanctions. Unfortunately, it's true what I said, that giggling is the word used. You'll tell me - no, it's harassment. The translator in the text that we received from the Serbian Parliament says the word can be interpreted as shagging, abuse and harassment. Therefore, it is a free interpretation of the translator. He wrote it. It is not only that, but under e) and under f) it is said: ''taking into account the last year and a half of the central and local authorities did not ensure respect for basic human rights, including the rights of ethnic national minorities in Vojvodina'. Where are you going to find your qualifications more difficult? I don't like what it is, but we must accept that this is how we discuss these issues and that is actually the main contribution to bringing Europe and the European Union closer, not that we are declaring ourselves to be willing in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6906	I've been setting a break for an hour. Resume at 15.00 hours. The next speaker is Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6907	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work, search the first item of the agenda. Please determine the quorum before work begins. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6908	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, here we are already in session four discussing the motion for a resolution on the accession of the European Union and we have heard all sorts of and different and over-explanatory and unspeakable attitudes and different opinions, and it is a very decent, beautiful resolution. I just have to remind you that the resolution, which has a purely political character, treats only a political issue, so one of the previous speakers, who characterised it as a declaration of empty political content, was close to guessing. The resolution is not a declaration, and personally, otherwise, I don't see a single word or part of a sentence that should be thrown out or changed. First, I cannot agree that the point within a simple-expanded sentence will not be shared by Serbia, because this point, and by throwing out the rest of the sentence, does not mean anything fundamental and nothing important in the resolution itself, changes. Carefully listening to everyone who spoke from here I am quite confused with one orchestrated, illogical circle that moves in, about, the borders of absurdity, contradictions, paradoxicality and in my head has caused confusion, because I can't believe that even though we've split up, and we shouldn't be about this, that we're all for Europe but, in some ways, in someone's opinion, Europe should meet certain conditions in order for us to get close to them. Hardly. And then I'm, you know, thinking about where the point of it is, "we're in, but... "a video of what this is really about. We're not all for Europe. No one can convince me of that anymore. Why? The European Union encourages European peoples to leave narrow and closed nationalism. That's good. No one's against it, and of course, we're all for it. I take the right to speak even for someone else's sake. But by entering Europe, I.E. By joining the European Union, we give up acts of state sovereignty, or, more specifically, we weaken state sovereignty, believing that Europe does not take into account different national needs and interests in decision-making. That's not true. The theory has long been abandoned by the introduction of the principle of subsidiarity, as one of the key principles of European legislation, and that means that everything that can be done at some lower level of government should not be passed on to higher levels of government. It's not decentralisation. It's just one complete dispersion of the decision center. This means that everything any member of the European Union has and can regulate, even regionally, that Europe will not do so. But there's one other thing, and there's basically a response to all of our controversy and diversity in opinions. Historically united national identities are weak. So entering the European Union weakens national identity. The result is that somewhere and sometimes that can lead to hostility and a nationalist response. There's a problem. Because in Europe, the nation plays as much as Europe plays the role of a single country. There are also solutions to our huge problems, because by entering Europe and setting up this supranational one we will simply be able to really, seriously and at the same level participate in solving our problems. Everything else represents the politics of false dilemmas, which emptys life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6909	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. He's not here. ) The word has a people's messenger Gordana Komic, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6910	Ladies and gentlemen, as one of the signatories of the motion for a resolution on joining the European Union and on behalf of the DS, these ten minutes of our time together, I will spend on an assessment of what it is that obstacles are on the way to accession and where and how there is an argument that this resolution is one of the mechanisms for removing these obstacles. One who deals with mathematics knows that for some processes and children in elementary school they teach that some theory would prove itself or that it would be valid, there are necessary, sufficient and necessary conditions. A necessary condition for all the jobs of European integration for Serbia, i.e. for Serbia-Montenegro, is The Hague. As unpleasant as we've been silent about the reasons why someone is suspected of crimes against humanity and why someone has a indictment before an international court in The Hague, as long as we thought that the Hague, justice, will disappear on its own or be extinguished in a protest, so all those who consider it a political court, not really an international justice court for the former Yugoslavia, for as long as we thought that, if most people in Serbia, by supporting various political parties, has a positive view of the European Union, even a partnership for peace, but has a particularly negative view on The Hague tribunal. So, for as long as we have lost to these delusions, it will take us as long as we do not realize that The Hague is a necessary condition for European integration. In essence, our debate today is not about what the debates were about when the resolution was adopted in Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic, where they were mainly about standards, about employees, about privatisation, about the privatisation model, about freedom of speech, about freedom of the media, about the release from the Russian way of regulating the state. So there were discussions at the beginning of the 1990s when these countries entered the process of adopting the resolution. Today, we are mostly talking about The Hague and Kosovo and Metohija as two topics affecting this society. It's got both the bad and the good side. The bad news is that only now, practically, the debate on this resolution opens up the topic of what we will all end up doing together if we can do to remove this obstacle called The Hague, and the good news is that everything else, which other countries have been dealing with for a long time, Serbia has done more or less. The evidence for the last claim is the parallel levels of institution development, the control of public finances, the assessment of the Law on Privatisation, the level of corruption, the level of gray economy, everything measured in changing countries, whether we are better than Romania, than Bulgaria, Macedonia, both from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. However, the problem I cited, therefore, The Hague, will be an obstacle to what we all call common support for European integration. This and the Partnership for Peace mentioned in one article is the biggest obstacle to reaching political consensus. We who have been involved in politics long enough know that it is not about that, that it is about interpretation of facts, not facts themselves. So a large number of citizens who support one political party have a positive view of the European Union and the party knows that, but has a negative view of everything else. The other political party also has voters who have a positive attitude towards the European Union, but does not have a positive attitude towards a partnership for peace. The third political party has a widespread electoral body in a positive and negative position both towards the European Union and NATO and towards a partnership for peace. Since we are all political craftsmen, we will recognize ourselves who is who in this congregation. It's not our job if we don't want to go against the will of what they think and feel those who vote for us. It can only be rare of us, if they see that sometimes it takes courage, to make a political move, a political decision, which is beneficial to all, invisible today or invisible for the weekend, but visible in the short or medium term for the whole country. So if we don't want to show courage as politicians and go into conflict with the will of those who chose us, let's at least open a topic here, if you don't want to mention The Hague, if you don't want a partnership for peace to be mentioned, and what do you want? If you don't want anything other than a sentence -- we want to join the EU, then we haven't achieved anything at all, one political party prone to approve of it is talking about a resolution that has one sentence -- we want to join the EU. Now I will return to the necessary and sufficient conditions and leave this Hague as a necessary condition. The necessary conditions begin with this resolution, so conditions are needed for a number of procedures in institutions that paint political decisions, political resolve, but which also paint bureaucratic pathways, and each country that changes goes through European integration. That path begins with the adoption of this resolution. What good do we have if we haven't made a political consensus of this resolution, does anyone benefit? There is no one, not even those voters, those parties who say -- I want a resolution with a sentence -- I want in the EU and nothing more, not in the short term, not in the medium term, not in the long term. So there's no use for company. Why is this a necessary condition? Because this resolution stems from political decisions and political consequences for all institutions that are in one or the other with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That'll be binding on the government as well. This will already be binding on every minister who sends us a bill to consider, to sign a declaration of compliance of the provisions of the law with European Union standards. Whether you consider these standards to be good or not to agree with them, you no longer question that. A resolution like this serves to understand that democracy is not always about putting everything into question, but about finding mechanisms to which you answer questions and society is asking them. And to all of us, whoever votes for us, society is asking the question -- when I'm going to live better, when I'm going to get rid of The Hague, when I can expect 500 euros on average, when you're going to lift my visas, when you're going to start working in the Assembly, the Government, everywhere, something that I see as a citizen, as a citizen, that I have tangible benefits. That's the answer, that's the question that needs a condition and the start of this resolution. What is a sufficient condition, practically, is good news when it comes to difficulties with The Hague, therefore, the good news is the level of institutions, and by the end of the week you will get the report, or the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where Serbia-Montenegro is quite favourable compared to the level of institution building and everything that is characterized by countries that are changing. That's enough conditions, because without it, you can't. Finally, the dilemma about what even, although we meet the necessary conditions, which is The Hague, is needed, is this resolution and the real political day-to-day decisions of all of us in politics and sufficient conditions, so the level of institutions, the level of service on local self-government, the level of validity of the application of what we are making as laws, what if then there is no political will and decision that Serbia is ready to sign an association agreement, stabilisation, to access the list of candidate countries, that it is time to get a questionnaire that we are filling as a state with as many questions as the European Union considers. This is the point where I will return to the beginning and to the necessary condition. So, the whole process, it is blocked by what is estimated in the European Union as an inadmissible low level of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. What it implements from a sentence that only reads "I want to go to Europe" is a political delusion to enter the European Union under some of our conditions. As in the resolutions adopted in the European Parliaments and in the Council of Europe Assembly, there are no negotiations, and with the European Union, until the moment you become full members, there are no negotiations. You have negotiations in the period when you admit you're a candidate country, until the moment you're admitted. It is only when you enter the European Union that you have the right to negotiate. I'll give you strength and emotion, one negative example. Hungary, while walking towards a bid to join the European Union, could not set any conditions for its own status. The moment she became a candidate country, she began to use the institution's resources, the way all politicians do. Your result is a resolution adopted in the European Parliament on the 16th, which applies not only to Serbia but also to other countries, because it is Hungary's policy. Is that fair? I think we'll all agree that if we agree that the resolution is "We want to join the European Union" and that the second sentence is "No justice". That would be true, because it's not about justice, it's about the rule of law, the rules of international law, the mutual contractual relationship and the rule of law. The difference between justice, which we talk about when we want to define our path to the European Union, and the rule of law, can sometimes be huge. Our task, as MPs and MPs in this assembly, would be to adopt this resolution, however unanimously understand that our commitment to the rule of law, which we are also entering into this resolution, means later, and then I would not assess how much time, and justice for some of us or for all of us who live in Serbia. In order for this resolution, apart from being adopted, to leave as a consequence and the fact that there is an open debate on important issues in the Assembly, and with a desire for this debate to continue among parliamentary groups, among influential people in the media and the public, among people from the professional public. I am fully convinced that if someone has a good chance and if someone deserves to join a group of modern European peoples where European rules and games apply, that it is Serbia. I will be very pleased to share with you the memory that this assembly has begun this game.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6911	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6912	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS assumed that a motion for such a resolution would come on the agenda at the beginning of the autumn session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I concluded this from a statement that was much earlier than she agreed in this way by the promoter, given by Ms Milivojevic, visiting the first programme of Montenegro's Television, on the round table, where she spoke, as the chairman of the assembly committee, with the negotiators from the second republic of our state community, on issues concerning Serbia-Montenegro's relations in such a established arrangement under the Charter that came into force in February 2003 and on a new report from the European Commission. I've got it right here, it's got the title of the Commission's Working Document. Serbia-Montenegro: Stabilisation and Association Report 2004'. Much has been said about this these days, and counterpart Pop-Lazic was right about this resolution and by this number of proposings, and without the consensus of all political actors in this parliament, especially the biggest political parties, as regards the very text of the resolution, the intention of the promoters and the obligations that we cannot accept, when she said it was a political pamphlet. That he is right, he also speaks of the fact that the resolution and its text are nothing more than the requirements contained in the Commission's report. It is obvious that between us and the promoter, as well as previous speaker Mrs. Komic, I think of us Serbian Radicals, and I would say a large number of people in a difficult economic and social situation, which does not accept in the national field such political moves or current current current current government, namely Boris Tadic, or previous DOS authorities, there is indeed a fundamental political difference. Not because we Serbian radicals are not for European integration. On the contrary, we also advocate it from the existence of our party and because of the fact that we really need it, because we cannot otherwise pursue economic and economic recovery, we cannot strive in any other way to improve the standard of living of our society, but the fact that it cannot be done in this way. If you say there are certain conditions, and Miss Milivojevic herself said yesterday – you know, when you are a member of an organization, you must accept these conditions. It could only be accepted if it is not blackmailed and clearly served orders of what to do. No one can ignore the fact that this mentioned commission is working closely with certain structures in our country and with the current government, I suppose, with the competent assembly board and therefore has given this insight to the MPs, as I recall, in May or June of the month. It was three months after Kostunica's government was elected, with a view to what was the previous three years, between 2000 and 2003, when the "reformors" in this same assembly passed the law by voting MPs from Thessaloniki, elected the governor by "vote" from Bodrum, through the removal of MPs, through the lack of respect for democratic rights and through the lack of a legal and legitimate assembly majority. Of course, they gave their opinion, hit the previous DOS furniture, and warned Kostunica and his coalition partners that they must strictly stick to what their views are, their criticisms and clear views on certain issues. When you say you have to accept some rules, then that's probably how it is for you, by the system take or leave, as they serve you. For us, European integration, if we ask ourselves anything, if it is asked the most legislative body, if the citizens of Serbia are asked, and if the people who are the leaders of the highest authorities act in accordance with the decisions, above all, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, therefore the competent committees, and if you say all of this in the context, including this resolution, which is more than suspicious to me, the survival of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which you have advocated in this way. Because the signator of the agreement, above all Belgrade, is Miroljub Labus, and then the Constitutional Charter, which came into force. The fact is that you cannot speak affirmably about such a process of improving our relations with Western Europe without having no idea that they clearly condition us, above all, on Kosovo and Metohija. In this context, due to such orders, the day before yesterday's statement at 20.05 hours is Boris Tadic. That is why we have launched the initiative and we appeal to the conscience and consciousness of all of you MPs, and to you from the DS, to join this initiative. If more of your MPs, first of all I mean DS MPs, promoting such a political pamphlet here said that what the Serbian Parliament votes, and now it's something called a resolution, binding on all of us, as the most legislative body, is that we commit the executive power and president of the Republic, to convince citizens, and especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that anything that is more binding in this assembly for such a president of the Republic, which, probably with extensive talks and communication that he had with Bush, with Karl del Ponte, with Solan, is coming to Serbia's citizens before Serbia before and calling Serbs, completely unprotected, completely unprotected, in the occupied area of our southern province, to go to elections. Here, in this report, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Commission for European Integration, are clearly using some terms that are not funny, but are sad. Kosovo and Metohija are not mentioned at all in the context of Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I'll read you what's on page 20 of that report. They say, with their review -- an additional issue is related to Kosovo -- Kosovo and Metohija -- based on Resolution 1244 SB, UNMIK committed to applying the Stability Pact's memorandum in February 2003, including the conclusion of a free trade agreement with interested parties in the region. They further say -- partners in the relevant working groups, the Stability Pact, have taken note of UNMIK's intention to ensure there is no gap in the free trade area in Southeast Europe. Of course, their economic interest, especially in this area, is also very important to them, but you on the other hand forget, if you want a path to European integration, which is Serbia's economic interest. Will they want to see us or anyone to talk to us? If we have this privatisation law, if we have such a scandal that happened last week with the company "Knjiz Milos" with other companies, with such privatisation under that same law and sugar and cement - who to talk to? Then it's easy to say - the law isn't good, we'll question it, that the workers die, that the president of the state, the Deputy Prime Minister, appears. You don't have a Minister of Resort. How are you going to convince them, and a whole chapter tells us about the budget deficit that you allegedly managed to reduce. We'll see how you can do it by the end of this year. You're going to reduce public spending, but according to the debauchery of some ministers, you can't see it. It's been a long time since the new government was established. How will you convince them that the process of production will be launched, that unemployment will be reduced, when Slovenia, the dear republic with which you have excellent relations, to remind you of their act of secession and the fact that the rest of them are unpunished because of the killing of 80 Serb soldiers, has prepared several hundred million euros to buy everything that is worth here in Serbia and then to extract the maximum profit from it. For example, you can see that in mixing with the company Knjiz Milos, at the C Market, with all the companies in our country. If you are already talking about European integration, you must be aware of the fact, and you have not mentioned it either from the former DOS, nor from the current since you are in this assembly, and it has not mentioned any previous or current authority. What is our country's relationship in the field of foreign trade and economic co-operation with the Russian Federation? Do you know what the foreign trade surplus of that country is? Do you know how much she's advanced over the past few years and what their economy is like, what are their foreign reserves? Do you know the fact that the SRJ, of course, as an international legal recognition of the entity has now taken over this current state union of Serbia-Montenegro, signed a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation right after the 1999 bombing. Can anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the current prime minister tell us how much this is used and explain to us the state of our production, and what we can produce and export to a wide and large Russian market? You're not interested in it for the simple reason that you're obsessed with all of this and what's clearly indicated here. The international criminal court for the former Yugoslavia, it is the anti-Serbian UN tribunal containing Serbian heroes, and above all Serbia's greatest hero, the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj. It is also one issue that yesterday was addressed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which Mrs Comic mentioned, through the adoption of a resolution that does not go in favor of us, as she wanted to present it here, did not commend us, but only a guideline, that is, their plan -- what goes on with Serbian generals and all those who defended state and national interests. I must say that this same Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, whose autumn session began three days ago in Strasbourg, which also includes the SRS MPs, in a delegation headed by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, voted yesterday for another resolution in which we are being hit by pucks because of insufficiently advanced democratic relations and respect for democratic rights in our country. Who's to blame? Serbian radicals or you from the former and current DOS? What is your relationship with political inexperience? What is the current president's attitude towards half the electoral body, and these are all those people who vote for the SRS? The relation of an individual representing his political party and who has had three working days since he was elected, and in the third working day, if it can be called his overnight address at 20.05 p.m., he urged our troubled countrymen to go to the occupation elections. Nothing binding for him, so nothing will be binding for you either. If such a president of the Republic is who you voted for, and we, both a million and a half Serbian citizens, had a better solution, a real man. A man who, as he performs in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, could do much better and much faster to integrate us into Europe. You chose Boris Tadic and now both you and he will have to deal with the consequences of your actions. He behaves worse than that handful of self-proclaimed Serb representatives in Kosovo and the Metohija paid by occupiers. He goes even one step further and in his address in his service. You know, at the time of the steel-communist era in Eastern European countries, leaders or leaders of these communist countries did not write Brezhnev such condescending letters, as Boris Tadic addressed George Bush 15 days ago. Then what are we talking about? Who protects Serbian, national and state interests? Not only Serbs, but all representatives of national minorities in our country. To bring you back to what is a burning problem for anyone who wants to normally think about anyone who thinks about the future of all our children and all the generations that need to be educated in this country, to start families and live, what they say when it comes to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. They say -- Serbia-Montenegro has not yet fulfilled its international obligations to co-operate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The October 2003 SB UN report by the chief co-operation prosecutor characterised it as difficult and highly politicised. The overall situation and political instability and such a relationship with the opposition party, which has almost half of the electoral body, which has shown local elections completed, there's all the politicisation through Boris Tadic and all of you who want to listen, such tasks are performed by Carla del Ponte and similar to it, all those who want nothing good to Serbia or the Serbian people. It's no conspiracy theory. There are clearly specified conditions here. These are blackmails. These are not conditions for a normal state and for people who want economic prosperity, progress in every way for themselves and for their people. These are the conditions that will cost you dearly, first of all, from the DSS, which you accept to be such factors in such a government, which you have not heard in December of this year, to turn where you were supposed to look. And if you had listened to the advice of Tomislav Nikolic, both you and your Vojislav Kostunica, your party wouldn't have collapsed so much. If you had listened to our advice, it would not have happened that the same man would have only been a little overdressed and allegedly democratically streeted and wearing his makeup Boris Tadic, who showed his true face before last night, to achieve such success that is not a success for all those who want this country and this people well, and it would not have happened to have been so cut by the Democratic Party from which you separated in 1992. Therefore, you will receive a replica, Mr. Aligrudić, these are irrefutable facts. Given that the current government now headed by Vojislav Kostunica, who co-habits with Boris Tadic, who called on Serbs to go to the occupation elections and disobeyed three resolutions and one declaration, regardless of what was voted in the previous assembly's assembly, if he continues to rule like this and if he continues to deafen himself to everything the SRS warns you about won't be well. I don't care what your party is going to fail and what you're going to get 3 or 4% of the vote in the next election if you continue to act this way, if something worse happens to Serbia and the Serbian people. For us Serbian radicals, the goal is to always put state interests above party interests. We did so when in this assembly at the time of our most angry account with 176 DOS MPs was on the agenda of the so-called declaration. Hackerup's constitutional frameworks, which later became the Shipar Constitution, which gave legitimacy to the Shiptar terrorist authorities, their terrorists, and which made it impossible for the 1600 families to find out where their loved ones were. After that, you invited Serbs to the occupation election. Once gave legitimacy to the Shiptarian authorities. Then why are you angry that you and Rug and Thaci and Haradinaj are sharing packs over these of the so-called. international communities. You once agreed to these terms and conditions, and now they're asking you to do the same thing. Boris Tadic was maximum service, he was doing it without a problem, that's his policy, and that's the difference between us and him and then and now, and I mean his representatives. You who voted in favour of the resolution here, which you and the SRS and our representative held talks about that we needed a consensus, that we needed to have and to support, and you know that with little restraint, we did the government's programme to protect our population in Kosovo and Metohija, you weren't prepared to make clear yesterday that, if necessary, this session should be interrupted and that you are vigorously looking for it, which is about the pamphlet, and the conditions of real and blackmail are in this document. And to immediately start as serious people with awareness of the situation of the people in Kosovo and Metohija and what the future awaits us, to discuss the possibility of two-thirds of the MPs calling off Boris Tadic, namely to create conditions for the people to do so in a referendum. I use the possibility, however peaceful and peaceful you may be now without raising tensions, but because of the fact that nothing is written to us because of conditions like this, to invite all of you MPs, representatives of all political parties to join our initiative and to recall Boris Tadic from the position of the President of the Republic because he acted against the current constitution. Because although you vote this resolution, I repeat, we are not against European integration, but we are against every type of blackmail, and that once and for all, whoever is elected to any high state function, let it be known that what this assembly and the national representatives vote must be binding on all. You don't have, gentlemen, and now I'm talking to you from the DSS in the end, no reason to be angry about what I told you or any representative of the SRS. You know, you may be deeply aware of that, but you don't want to admit it, or you don't want to face it, maybe because of lack of courage, maybe because of some blackmail that you're exposed to, that the path that advocates the SRS is the only right way. And if we're right, they confirm us from choice to choice of citizens. What a satisfaction for a political party to gain so much voter trust if it disappears from a state where these citizens should live and enjoy all democratic rights and if it can work and decide for itself. Think about it and appeal to your representatives and to the presidents of your parties to save what can be saved, because it's really the last moment for responsible people to do something to make us feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6913	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6914	There was a reference to the DSS from my predecessor, who had a very hot exposure, and that pecked like a machine gun but with blanks. So what was said here was extremely incorrect, because the DSS has been pushing for consensus and political parties' dialogue on important state issues since the beginning. Today we are not hearing a consensus on important issues, and we have forgotten that today's debate is not what you were talking about, but that the topic of today's debate is a resolution on the agenda, which, on the one hand, is that it is a pamphlet, and on the other hand it contains some expressions or terms that are not adequate, so it cannot be voted on. I accept all that. We don't all have to be Europeans or Europhobics, but in any case we have to have an agreement on some key social issues. We can't reach an agreement with a dialogue like this that's just been conducted. I see this as a dialogue, because you've been talking to us and we have the right to respond. Simply, the DSS has tried from the beginning to achieve such a kind of dialogue with everyone in this congregation. She tried to do it, and she still does it, and she will not stop trying to do it with the SRS as well as with other political parties in this parliament. It is extremely incorrect to speak in this context about what Boris Tadic did two days ago, and to link it to Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS. You have heard very clearly what Vojislav Kostunica's position is on the issue of going out in this election. You have heard that the government of the Republic of Serbia has assessed as an organ, and this is what this assembly has given it for the right, that conditions are not met for going to the elections and that it cannot therefore invite citizens of Serbia to the elections and citizens of Kosovo and Metohija to participate in these elections. Therefore, it is a clear position of this House. We have reached a consensus about this attitude here and don't let what we have agreed on in this House and what we're going to try to reach a further agreement, bring it down this way. This is not correct and your statements are not correct, Mrs Jovanovic. So I had to answer and replicate, because what you just said was extremely incorrect and extremely incorrect as far as the DSS is concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6915	The word is made by MP Vojkan Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6916	Article 100(2) The MPs are obliged to address with respect to other MPs. Here, I have been listening for two days as one of the motions of this document, and I think it has now gone too far, from the previous speaker that the proposings and those who have worked on this text have used ridiculous and sad terms, that they have only installed in this resolution what was required from the European Commission's report for the previous year. With special satisfaction, I must tell you that the Committee on European Integration has called on Ambassador Jeffrey Barrett to address the MPs of the National Assembly and to present the report personally. What that report says may hurt, but that's how they see it. Secondly, I do not accept that we are just foreign listeners, who, for some report's sake, have put this into this resolution, because this report has nothing to do with the beginning of work on this text of the EU accession resolution. Therefore, the truth works for and the public, the Committee on European Integration, and whose member I am, and the working group, whose member I am, has repeatedly insisted and urged members of the Radical Party to take part in the work group. You just didn't accept it. What we are listening to at the pay phone for two days now is a naked demagogy that has absolutely nothing to do with the text that appears in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you have any objections, is this the wrong formulation of meeting international obligations regarding The Hague, is this a question of regional co-operation, is that a question, and what we could hear from the SPS members, about the Partnership for Peace? Then tell us specifically - we will not vote for this resolution because of that and that. Don't mix your grandmothers and frogs and use this pay phone for the political moment we've had these days. So don't make political statements just because of the abuse of this pay phone. You're talking a little bit about this resolution. Therefore, this and this resolution, which is only the first step towards joining the European Union, is as it is. The data is to the MPs for adoption. I invite you to vote for her. When you have a majority in this House vote for another resolution, let it be better or worse than it is. These resolutions or similar resolutions have all the countries in the environment. This is a political act of a pair of excellences that this House needs the kind of composition it is. So I invite you to make as much consensus as possible about this text, or if you have any better texts, give that better text, let's see what that better text is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6917	Ms. Jovanovic, a replica of the presentation of Vojkan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6918	Mr. Tomic, it can't be a demagogy of what one says, though the largest opposition party that has 50% of the electoral bodies, but what the current government does. What you put in the text of this resolution is at least embarrassing. See what stands when it comes to Serbs being accused of so-called. International war crimes court. Is it clear to you what kind of situation they are in and how they are treated by Serbs who have voluntarily surrendered, what kind of guarantee and what help the current government has given them, and not to talk about the previous DOS and the fact that a former foreign minister came out here today, the one who dragged Carla del Ponte to write the indictment against the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. To vote one of the representatives of the SRS for a resolution that stands – to fulfil all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, and which strongly supports the view that all persons suspected of crimes committed during the 1991-2000 armed conflicts in the territory of the former SFRY are brought to justice in accordance with positive legal regulations and international obligations. Your obligations and your unilateral co-operation with Carla del Ponte are not the obligation of any Serbian patriot, not a single Serbian radical. Since the moment our party's president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who was escorted by 100,000 people on the Belgrade streets, went to the anti-Serbian Hague tribunal, where he was completely isolated for six months against all international rights, standards and statutes, he said no Serb soldier, no Serb general should go there anymore. He will, rest assured, regardless of being held in prison there for a year and eight months, defend the interest of every Serb, Serb people and Serbian state, will return to thank God alive and healthy here, and by that time will already be ruled by Serbian radicals at all levels of government. That trend can't be stopped. Speaking of what you've been doing and where you've been, Mr. Tomic, you'd better file that report on your work as your People's Democratic Party and your Vuksanovic, who won an entire 1.5% in the mayoral election.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6919	You have no right to a replica. The People's Messenger Jovan Palalić has the word, and let Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this discussion on the motion for a resolution on joining the European Union, I would like to highlight the importance of discussing Serbia's accession to the European Union before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, we had a situation to discuss through a working group, through an improved ongoing dialogue at the level of the administrative bodies of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the European administration the issues of joining the European Union, the measures needed to make the state union and the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely the fact that, after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, a large part of the areas that need to be agreed on and implemented by the European Union's law were found in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, it also points to the importance of the need for the highest and most important bodies such as the National Assembly to discuss this strategic issue and the future of our Republic. The proposal for this resolution gives the National Assembly an active role. It's the first time it's ever played an active role in the definition of our country. It is precisely in this sense that this debate should be supported no matter how the way of European integration is viewed. Regardless of the fact that, unfortunately, the proposed resolution will not be adopted unanimously, I think that the quality of the discussion that was held yesterday and today before the National Assembly is precisely the fact that all the parliamentary groups, all the political parties in this Parliament, have sent a clear message and expressed their position that they are for European integration. They generally agreed with the fact that it is necessary to accept and subsequently apply the European Union's communal law. I think that's the most important task in the coming period in front of the National Assembly and in front of all of us as MPs. On this issue, about the way in which everything that makes the European law liquid should be incorporated into our national legislation, namely European values, can bring us together and lead us towards the final consensus, perhaps some future document and the text of some resolution that we will all agree on together. I repeat again, I think it is the proposed text, the one we're discussing now, so that all political parties would have to vote for it. Of course, regrettable that the previous years have not been tried to establish a political consensus on one issue, regardless of the fact that a lot of talks on European integration have been conducted through the working group and through an improved ongoing dialogue, discussed the measures needed for Serbia to take. But before the National Assembly, no consensus has been tried, and I think that this assembly's assembly has made great progress in this regard and that this is one first step towards this political consensus and agreement on the general course of Serbia's future development. Of course, the story of European integration remains not only at the level of the declaration, but to approach one serious and operational job should be seen in what state our institutions, our political and legal system, and in view of the scale of the Copenhagen criteria or those 31 conditions that are numbered in so-called. "The White Book" when it comes to harmonising with the European Union's internal market. It can't be said that in the previous period, nothing was done about it. It is precisely this call of the National Assembly that some laws have been adopted that meet to a good extent a part of the conditions required of a country that wants to join the European Union when it comes to the 31st condition. Any area to take, if we take the fact of the public service, we have had a situation that the Public Procurement Act was passed, that it was in this assembly of the National Assembly that the law was corrected, that it was corrected in the work concerning complaints about the procurement process. In that part, it is satisfied that the part that is required - that competitiveness in obtaining public jobs is one of the definitions, and that I am not talking about the company's right to adopt the Business Registers Act, the Agency for Business Registers, and the Business Society Act is in preparation. The bankruptcy act was passed. A new Insurance Act has been adopted, as has a number of other laws that are subject to the rules required to meet these conditions, has been adopted in this assembly of parliament. Of course, in order to fully establish the dynamics of the entire course of accession, which cannot be sudden, we cannot fully accept the communal right, because the situation in our society, the situation in our political system, is not such that it can accept it, so what is required by this motion for a resolution, which is the adoption of a national strategy for Serbia-Montenegro's accession to the European Union. It is through this national strategy that these dynamics of regulation and harmonisation and harmonisation with communal law will be seen, so that our economy, which is in a difficult situation, can endure and adapt to that degree of liberalisation and these economic freedoms. Here are mentioned exactly four economic freedoms, which must be adapted to make it possible to survive. When it comes to criteria, we have a situation where the basic condition they are looking for, political and legal, which we have failed to meet, and it is an opportunity to reach a consensus in the next period of time, when we are all for European integration, is the adoption of a new constitution of Serbia. It is the new constitution of Serbia that should be not only that we will all gather around it and bring it together, but the source of all legal norms, new legal norms, new stable institutions, which will effectively resolve rights, obligations and responsibilities and meet these criteria. When it comes to the market and the state of our economy, the situation is much more complex because these criteria require our businesses to withstand the pressure of competitiveness, when they are one day part of the European Union's single market. I'm afraid the question of competition is one of the most important issues of our economy, and there is much to be done in this field. Our companies, in addition to having poor management, which is uncompetitive both in prices and in quality, which do not have enough development programmes, are burdened with major social problems, have not seriously addressed the issue of strengthening their competitiveness and marketing. In the previous period, something has been done when it comes to strengthening the competitiveness of our economy, but it is one of the priorities that must be done in the next period. The fact that we are making this resolution a clear decision that priority in the work of the National Assembly in the coming period is to bring our regulations into line with the regulations of the European Union, to build institutions that are compatible with what is required of us and to introduce such procedures that will achieve efficiency in the adoption of regulations, and to oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to develop a national strategy for this, is something that puts this National Assembly at the heart of European integration and increases the responsibility of all of us and citizens who really want Serbia to become a part of the European Union someday, and also to strengthen the control mechanism towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, DSS MPs, who will vote in favour of this resolution, will take a very active part in the next period, following the adoption of this resolution, in the process of harmonising our right with the communal law of the European Union, and thereby contribute to improving and accelerating the integration process, and to one day Serbia becoming and achieving its objective as outlined in the Constitutional Charter, to become part of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6921	The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and let Goran Jaksic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6922	I think it's a good thing this point is on the agenda, because it's high time the public in Serbia came into a situation to notice, perhaps a small and perhaps crucial difference in political views between political parties, and that difference is needed, that is, to determine the difference in order to see which side of the illusions are on which side is the facts and the realistic perception of our position, our perspective and our future. It is confusing to the public when representatives of those political parties, who support such a resolution, in this text, speak and express their views on the European Union and thus spread one illusion, one false picture of something that awaits us here, just across the street, one step is needed, because what they wrote in this motion for a resolution is contrary not only to European standards but also to the basic documents of the European Union, where they allegedly want to lead this republic. I will be on my way to analyse the proposal for this resolution, but at the outset I must state that this matter, as outlined in this proposal, should be a declaration, a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, stating the position of the Republic of Serbia as a member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Whether it is a different form, a name or form of an act that makes it more clear, it is still within the jurisdiction of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Some of the formulations in the motion for a resolution are obviously contrary to what you wrote in the Constitutional Charter. The Constitutional Charter contains several difficult failures. One of these is that one member is given the definition of the path and the goal to which the state community is seeking. The state community is neither confederate nor Federation, nor alliance, it is in a formal and legal sense -- nothing, absolutely nothing. If this logic comes with the motion of this resolution, then it must be noted that in the first position of the preamble, it is said "confirming the attachment of the Republic of Serbia to the construction of a democratic society". Democratic society is a term used by individual journalists, and in most cases by ignorants. The democratic society of the republican form is the presentation of the same concepts in several ways. It's obvious that whoever wrote the text of this resolution doesn't know the elemental stuff. He doesn't know what a form of state is; what a form of social order is; what could be a mark of a country's foreign policy, he doesn't know what a political component of a country's regulation is. He doesn't know what the shape of a state order is, and he doesn't know what could be the motive for integrating a state into an association. So this text contains something that a linguist and a man who understands a little bit in these terms, which deals with foreign policy, can simply tear or say -- please, this is a failed political pamphlet. In that manner, this document was drawn up. He doesn't really mean anything. A set of vague and conflicting concepts, which is confirmed, by wasting illusions from this pay phone on a single road with no alternative and other corny flossules we have heard for 15 years on Serbia's political scene. You see, in that first position, it's called "as well as the construction of effective state institutions". The term - institution exists in the Constitutional Charter, to express that the Council of Ministers and these ministries there are neither state bodies, they are crushed below that level, but what does this mean - effective? There is no such thing, probably someone, I suppose, well-intentioned meant to improve the work of state authorities and organisations and, say, to achieve the level needed for equal and full accession to the European Union. It would be one formulation that would likely be acceptable to all political parties represented in the National Assembly. Like this, effective state institutions, I don't think anyone who wrote knows what he wrote. In the second position, "confirming the full commitment of the Republic of Serbia to implement the Constitutional Charter". Please, this is how we say, as we do not believe in the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, so we must swear again that we will be defined. Yesterday, he was the Deputy Prime Minister who at the time of the adoption of the Belgrade Agreement, that's when Solana turned his hands, signed the Belgrade Agreement, and two minutes after the signature was put in front of TV cameras, I don't know what I signed. So everyone started canceling that document afterwards, and as a result of the annulment and denunciation, we got the Constitutional Charter that was nothing. Now the motionors of this act are pushing to convince us that we need to swear again that we will apply the Constitutional Charter. It probably shouldn't stand in one document, but this -- "determined commitment to building a functional state community," in which sense is the word "functional" used? Is it in the sense that the state community needs to get some functions, that the small functions that exist are governed by the Constitutional Charter, is this supposed to mean that the state community is finally beginning to fulfil its obligations under the Constitutional Charter, or is it perhaps something third? So, the promoter brings us into one situation, it's an illusion, one flossula, it's probably read in some European Union document, and then a little bit from here, a little bit from there, so the mix and that mix is nothing. In the third position, it is said "taking as a starting point clearly defined Serbian citizens". So, the clear definition of Serbian citizens is taking place in a referendum, because it's only clear. That definition of Serbian citizens coming through the positions of political parties that the citizens voted for is special, so it can't be clear. But given that we do not have a government that reflects the citizens' electoral will, then why is it surprising that citizens are fully aware that their voice in Serbia's political life means nothing, so they simply quietly boycott the elections, so perhaps in the next elections, 80% of the citizens will not go to the polls, so that someone based on 20% of the voters who went out to say -- that's a clear choice of citizens. Furthermore, the same stance cites "the established political consensus on the accession of the Republic of Serbia". You see, it's not even the state union, it's the Republic of Serbia. That's why I said at the beginning that this is a matter that needs to be regulated by a declaration expressing a political stance, but always in expressing that political stance, it must be stated that through and through the state community, the Republic of Serbia is expressing its readiness. It's not here, and I'm guessing this was done by people who kind of participated in that creation of the Constitutional Charter. You see, it says "political consensus on the accession of the Republic of Serbia". I agree, there is a political consensus, almost all the political parties are for that approach, but is this the way, is this the right way, is this a formulation of the strategy that needs to go towards the European Union deserve consensus? He doesn't deserve it, then you can't put this on. He says it's an indisputable strategic goal. The goal of an individual and the aim of a society is defined as the last point of resistance or the limit to which an individual or group wants to reach, to achieve, therefore, the strategic goal is, first and foremost, the strategic absolute abuse of one concept that does not belong in such a single document. If you said you needed a plan, a programme of clear measures, actions, how to achieve goals, and the goals are you and you, that would be clear, so people could identify themselves, and like this behind the word "strategic," you could put anything and anything. We have witnessed for the past four years that everything and everything is put behind words - strategically. I'll remind you that in the Federal Assembly in 2001, when some laws were passed that ratified agreements between any association of the European Union and our state on financial assistance, even stupider concepts appeared, but then at that time the vice-president of the economy, says you know what, it's a translation problem. Please, it's not a translation problem here. We know exactly which group of MPs are standing here because they all speak Serbian as their native language. So, it's not a problem with translation, it's a problem of ignorance, or that through this formulation, everything goes through it, so tomorrow when someone says, you've proposed this bill, so someone argues, so it's not regulated anywhere in Europe. And then someone says -- we voted for the resolution, that's what it said. There's this abuse that's possible because of the times so badly used, that I'll be so mild in this criticism. The fourth stance says "confirming the determination of the Republic of Serbia to fulfil the obligations undertaken", so some documents are listed, so one state, unless it is a member of an association, cannot take any obligation, it can impose the obligation as a condition. In that sense, you should write these documents. So, given that the European Union has decided and that it has conditioned our entry into these and these conditions, we define ourselves to meet these and those conditions that are mentioned. If it can serve you as some kind of help when you write something, so be it. The fifth stance states "an emphasising the desire of the Republic of Serbia to actively and versatilely contribute to the efforts of the international community". Please, what are the efforts of the international community and the European Union to establish political stability and lasting peace in Southeast Europe? A few months ago, we brought a document where we realized that the international community had done nothing about Kosovo and Metohija, that it had done everything past and contrary to Resolution 1244 and that it was on the path of Kosovo and Metohija independence. We criticised all constitutional frameworks, criticised privatisation, criticised that the KLA was not disarmed, and these were all the efforts of the international community. Now these promoters are forcing us to raise our hand to support these efforts. Please, who could support that? I believe in the good intentions of some people who have done this resolution, but are they aware of what this means. You seem to have no idea what's in this text. The efforts of the international community, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia and all that has been happening in the space and territory of the former SFRY, the efforts they have made were not well-intentioned, were not all well-intentioned towards this people and this state. Who's making us support these efforts now? Remember, the Racak was constructed, so after 10 days it was found that it didn't matter, that it wasn't like that. The international community has not withdrawn the sanctions imposed on Rack. Remember the market in Sarajevo. That's when Serbia got the sanctions. After five days, it was clear that it had nothing to do with any Serb from Republika Srpska. Did the international community withdraw the sanctions? She didn't withdraw the sanctions. Don't make me support those efforts, because I can't support those efforts. Furthermore, according to the amount of these not only termological, conceptual and political indetermination, the right intention of the one who, I can say, has been misleading to the people who have signed this motion for a resolution. Item 6 says, "Dividing the principles, values and objectives on which the European Union is based, while respecting the historical and cultural personalities of the Republic of Serbia." I am absolutely certain that the signatories of this motion for a resolution do not know either the principles, nor the values or objectives. They don't know or can't recognize what the real goals are. Point 7 says, "Congratulating the historic enlargement of the European Union since 1 May 2004, which abolished the political, military, economic and ideological division of Europe." Please, that division was lifted by the fall of the Berlin Wall. Don't change history. With the fall of the Berlin Wall, Germany has united, and all other countries have disintegrated, a bipolar Europe has disappeared, only one side dominates. Don't change history. The first of May 2004 you must have celebrated as the Day of Work, but that was not the moment that the division fell. The division fell when the Berlin Wall fell. Further: "Departing from Article 49. The Treaty on European Union... "you gave us a brochure, a manual for MPs – what the European Union is. They list some other members there, but make it a mistake. "... the procedure and conditions of receipt of the State which applied for membership in the European Union... ". Now comes the essence and contents of what you suggest. I'll have to read it to you. One MP tried to redecorate this text and read his proposal for this resolution. He did something, but he couldn't fix the text. This text is irreparable. Point 1. says "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirms that the accelerated entry of the Republic of Serbia as members of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro... "I guess the accelerated entry of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and within that, the Republic of Serbia, but come on, let's go. "... a strategic and national goal." About the strategic goals, I think it's premature to qualify like this. If there was an interest, it could be, but if that interest were defined just like this, I couldn't do it. Point 2 says: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expresses its full readiness to meet all the necessary preconditions needed to speed up integration into the European Union." In view of the fact that Chris Patten said – two separate tracks etc., the qualification of "full readiness" would mean some full determination, loyalty, the desire to do all this, to meet the requirements. Apparently, whoever wrote doesn't know what all the conditions are. The conditions are also in the domain of politics, both in the domain of the economy, and in the domain of defence, both in the domain of security and generally in the domain of the economy. I think that the one who expresses "full readiness" in four years has done nothing or just mutilated some legal proposals by presenting them as the achievements of the European Union, such as the Law on Working in the Last Assembly – it is European law, the International Labour Organisation has given its consent. Later, it turned out to be the 1848 Law, which doesn't apply anywhere, nor can it apply. They suggest a full fulfillment. It's just getting chilly. "Respect for the rights of man and minority," that's all right, it's just to be said that in that part we're not much behind. Just because someone doesn't want to look at us the right way, that's another thing. Next: "The fulfillment of all international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and the firm support of the position that all persons suspected of crimes committed... "What's a crime? Crime is a crime. "Deceased"? If you knew which definition of beginning was used by The Hague tribunal, you would never put this here. It's not just an execution, it's a complicity, and they're also treating a joint criminal enterprise as part of the initiation. If you knew what a joint criminal enterprise is, first, second and third categories. The first category is the widest target. I could tell you that, from The Hague's point of view, you're all criminals here because you shared the same goal, because all citizens shared the same goal. You're forcing us to sign it, to accept it. He goes on to say, "... committed during the armed conflict between 1991 and 2000... ". What was the armed conflict in 2000? If you already wanted to associate with The Hague tribunal, then you did not give the definition of the statute, 'Statut of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Criminal Crime of the People who have committed serious violations of international humanitarian law since 1991 in the former Yugoslavia'. You shouldn't have put that on, and you meant it. He goes on to say, "... in the territory of the former SFRY, bring justice in line with the positive legal regulations and international obligations." Positive-legal regulations are our regulations. Who was brought in according to our regulations? What international regulation is that? You mean the Statute of the UN tribunal? It's not a regulation. You mean the Hague Tribunal? It's a cease-fire court, it's not a court. If you had read a little book, it would probably be clear to you that the Hague tribunal is committing crimes, giving its interpretations new elements of the criminal acts, which do not exist, with the aim of covering everything in the width and that each one of them can get out of here as needed and through every name and name to conditions power. And then, we have those in power, so he doesn't go, he accepts everything, so the Serbs are a genocide people, so they did this, so we need to withdraw the lawsuit, so this should, like, go to the elections to legalise independent Kosovo and Metohija. We won't sign it, we won't raise our hand for it. We don't want euthanasia, we don't want Chris Patten to say tomorrow - what to do, you've decided. We must resist the truth and justice coming. It's hard, but we have to resist, because we don't have another time. Further: "For the permanent and continuous co-operation that stems from membership in the Council of Europe and the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation". We as members of the OSCE, in our time, have signed the inviolability of borders in Europe, the Paris Act on Future Europe, etc. Everything was on our side. No one respected it. They came and gave beautiful services to the Brions and destroyed the state. We respect that, but they don't respect it. He says "cooperation." With who? Who holds international co-operation – the Republic of Serbia or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? Think about it. Point 3 says, "It points to the need for the more effective work of the joint bodies of the Serbia-Montenegro state union." You complain to us that the state community does not operate, does not work, etc., and then says measures to strengthen co-operation with the EU. Of course, the OLAF report should be completed, the report should be completed on drug trafficking, sugar smuggling. There will be more questions, be sure, some banks that have laundered money, it's all a leak of five-octobaric. You just had a chance to hear what you've been up against for the past year and a half. You didn't do anything to get close to the EU. With 2004, 2006, we've now come to some year after 2012. You think of these drying divisions - who's for, well, who's not with us, he's against us, as I know, it was in 1934 in Germany. If you're thinking of sharing a political scene, it won't work. No more illusionists. Our reality is so cruel that it doesn't allow us to sow illusions. Furthermore, it is said "expected from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that once in three months", point 5. - 'We expect from the Serbian government'. If we're a congregation, I guess we're looking, we're asking, no, we're expecting. So that's the deal. In order to say at point 6, there's a plan that needs to be made. So we're asking them first for a report, so at the next point we say, there's a plan to be made. I guess there's a plan to be made first, so we're looking for a way to meet that plan. They can change all that. National strategy. Not a national strategy. We have a national education strategy, we have a national health strategy, we have medicines, we have national strategies, but we don't have any of that. Make a simple program, a plan -- this year you and those regulations should be in line, this year they need these regulations, in the third year these regulations. Make a deal. Since the government is leading this internal and foreign policy, let them build teams to do it, let them keep the boards informed and we'll finish the job. But no, you want a special procedure now. What special procedure? The procedure is the only one that exists in the Rules of Procedure. You want some new speedy procedure. I don't know, based on this, and especially points 8. where the National Assembly is obliged to be a public service to the EU in terms of promotion of values and fluids. And speaking of liquids, read a little bit, our liquids were, in fact, 90 years ago, what was in our possession, the currents of Europe in the legal sense of words. Remember, by the age of 80, we had special status in co-operation with the EU. At the time they had no political interest in seeing us, they conditioned us with two or three conditions, but they didn't mind Tito ruling. Finally, not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, surely as part of the European people and as a country located in Europe, friends and co-operation should be sought in Europe and in this cooperation we express, first of all, our interests and we fit into something that nature requires things to exist. International trade co-operation is impossible unless there are common criteria. It is impossible to co-operate in banking unless there are common criteria. It's all normal and it's all there, but we have to take care of our interests. The path should be stable, it must not be swift and should not be in a system of political flossules and cheap political points based on a provincial text by a journalist from a magazine published within a SOUR. If you're making any history papers, make it worth it. Make it so that it is acceptable for all the political groups present here, but do not go with greater conditions than those who say we should be in Europe. I'm not sure that's what Europe wants, that it wants us right there. I'm not sure that's true. Since that's the way, do this in two or three sentences, which is acceptable to everyone. This way, believe me, it can't go through, and it'll be a shame and a shame for those who signed this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6923	Thank you. National MP Goran Jaksic gave up, as did all MPs from the G17 Plus list and from the DSS list. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović. Here you go, one minute and a half. Let the People's MP Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am really not sorry after this presentation of colleagues Krasic that he spent my time too, because you heard one detailed, comprehensive and clever exposure. What I'm trying to say is the fact that we owe the people an explanation -- why this resolution right now. One is the only reason, and that's -- the elections are over and we should tell the people -- dear people, we have to arrest you generals. Behind this lies the whole truth and all our consideration. I don't believe that those signatories stand behind all this, but that there is a government that wants to take cover for this parliament. The government needs protection for what it has promised and what it has to do. I'll remind you that one smart Serbian head has said why all this is happening to us and she's saying this is happening to us because we had a school without faith, that we had a state without blessing, that we had an army without patriotism and that we had politicians without honesty. Let the people judge whether this mind and holy Serbian head was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6925	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. Sorry, replica, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6926	Ladies and gentlemen, in the presentations of two MPs, the signatories of this act, which we call the motion for a resolution, are qualified. It is inadmissible to express qualifications on signatories. You can comment on the text, you can suggest a new text, but if your only weapon is unable to show courage and accept facts and reality in Serbia, the rest of you are disqualifying someone who has signed something by taking away the elemental right of every MP to sign whatever he wants, then it is a question that deeply affects and what are congregation debates. So, with a lot of attention and respect, I'm listening, as a signator of this proposal, to any objection relating to the text, but with just as much determination, I refuse to accept that our Assembly should be a place where someone will disqualify just because they signed something. In one paradoxical way, this debate was about disputes, reminders and qualifications between the two opposition parties. There is power in this country that has not been mentioned in today's debate. As members of the DS parliamentary group, it is clear to me why all disputes are done through disqualification of what is DS. For a simple and simple reason -- you know very well that Serbian citizens and citizens in the DS recognise European values. I would beg without disqualifying the signatories of this document. With the disqualification of content as much as you want, it'll do everyone good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6927	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6928	I'll point out what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is about. I think the predecessor misread everything I said. I did mention the signatories of the motion for a resolution. I probably used 99.9% of all the words I used here from this pay phone to point out the specific shortcomings in this motion for a resolution. I haven't discussed personalities at all, if I may say so. Of course, it does not occur to me to challenge someone’s justice to launch a congregation initiative, which is the right of all MPs. Every MP has the right to use it. I'm glad one thought finally came out. I'm especially glad that seven months of effort is behind these two sides. I'm particularly glad, because this is the best proof of what everything in politics is used to create a problem where there's not even real...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6929	Mr. Krasic, may I ask you to speak only of the injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6930	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured by my predecessor objecting to me that in my discussion I have disabling the work of those people who are signatories of this proposal and that I have made something out of their personality...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6931	You threw it away, we have a lot of understanding that your performance was misread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6932	I just wanted to explain that in that part, the Rules of Procedure were injured and that Mrs. Komic misunderstood, 99.9% of the exposure I used to explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6933	It's all right. Thank you. Thank you for understanding. Thank you again for understanding, Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6934	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advocating members 48th and 74th. Rules of Procedure. On our table today, there was a letter from Mrs. Comic in her signature, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You've seen what this is all about. The Democratic Party's work has confirmed this once again. Yesterday, the president of the Democratic Party and the president of the state came out and invited Serbs to the elections illegally, against the constitution, and today Mrs. Comic sends MPs something that I don't know what it is, because it is not being seduced in the National Assembly. No one from the Foreign Affairs Committee has authorized this to be sent to all MPs, although, of course, they are not prohibited from getting to know each other, because you all know very well that you can attend to all the committees, whoever wants, whenever they want, therefore, the sessions are not closed. We didn't agree to send this text to the MPs. Gordana Comic is not an institution. She is an institution for herself as a national MP, but let her not hide behind the Committee on Foreign Affairs. What's he sending us? In addition to the information we are delivering the text of the resolution on the harassment of minorities in Vojvodina, which the European Parliament adopted at a session on 16 September 2004 in translation. Disturbing can also be the moaning and abuse of a translator. It informs us that it will only deliver to us what the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe yesterday, today and the day before. I'll tell you what she did, because of people like Gordana Komic and those who went there irresponsible and unprepared. A very bad resolution has been adopted that realizes there has been a stalemate in the development of democracy. It is, though, but the authorities are the ones the West wanted, so they're to blame for the delay in democracy. Our delegation went there unprepared for the performance and there, I was told, was a resolution in which we were even accused of anti-Semitism. How do you think we should go to Europe then, as you propose to this resolution, and do nothing to prevent such resolutions from taking place in the Council of Europe? Who, please, has Mrs. Comic allowed you to share this, where is the press here that this is being seduced in the National Assembly? How do I know this is yours, where this is printed? You're not the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but you have to file an account for someone and you have to report someone - here, I've done another task. Shame on Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6935	Please take care of the expression. Please, Mrs. Comic, just a moment. Therefore, none of those members were injured. Please talk about the Committee's work. Thank you. There was no objection here as to how the board works. I thank you for asking the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to know everything about the text of the resolution, and during the discussion, it was promised that the translation of this text would be delivered and it is here today and is available to everyone. It's not the subject of discussion here in any way, except for all the materials in the attachments that are divided here. Please, since this wasn't according to the Rules of Procedure, you don't have a replica. (Gordana Comić: Direct mention of the name) Please, the discussion was not according to the Rules of Procedure. I have found, please, that no member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, there has been no discussion. (Gordana Comić: This is deleted from the stenogram? That's right. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6936	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr President, the topic of this session is whether Serbia wants to join Europe, whether it wants to join European integration or not. I am afraid that this pay phone has been abused during the long period of time to blame each other for daily political points and absolutely on the agenda of this session. Therefore, the DS will vote in favour of this resolution since it is defined for European integration, it is defined to accept all the objectives and values around which the European Union countries are gathered and to accept the standards that these countries have already adopted by introducing these standards and implementing them into their legislation and their legal system. That's the subject, and we'll plead positive to that issue. What are the values and objectives around which the countries of the European Union are gathered that we accept? It is a responsibility in work, it is a public in work, it is a free market, freedom of movement of people, goods and capital, a rule of law, that is, the rule of law, the economic prosperity of Serbian citizens through the European Union and in the community with other countries of developed democracy. Here some are trying to portray Serbia as a possible victim of European integration. It seems to me that only those who cannot or are not ready or willing to meet the standards prescribed and generally accepted by the European Union seem to advocate such a thesis. The DS advocates prosperous society, the rule of law and rich citizens of Serbia. It advocates full sovereignty, advocates policymaking and the protection of citizens' interests through institutions. When someone here has already mentioned an invitation from the president of the state and president of the DS to go to the Kosovo elections and vote through the institutions to try to exercise their rights, of course, with the conditions and time limits we have set, it is a completely legitimate thing and it shows and talks about civilised behaviour and civilised approach in solving Serbia's citizens' problems in all of its territory. Should we bring the resolution or not? The Constitutional Charter is mentioned. The Constitutional Charter shows and it was adopted, that Serbia is defined as European integration through the state union with Montenegro. It is now Serbia's obligation, because there is an obligation to bring Serbia's Constitution into line with the Constitutional Charter. However, in order for this resolution to be implemented realistically, in order not to remain a full declaration, a declaration of acceptance and acceptance of the objectives and values, it is necessary that all political and social factors act in accordance with their definition. This means that all political factors, all political parties, especially parties in parliament, but also non-parliamentary political forces will implement their programmes in such a way as not to prevent European integration. This means that we will all, in part, give up the parts of our programs that mean extremism, which means mutual misunderstanding and which means a deviation from the objectives that we will adopt and accept from this resolution. Therefore, it is clear that by adopting a resolution on European integration, this assembly achieves a national consensus on the most important issues, on objectives and values and on the standards it will later implement in its legislative system. Answering certain questions, which is why the European Union, why European integration, how European integration can be achieved, who should lead to European integration, when this is to happen and where, we will also get the most important answers that need to be created by consensus. Why the European Union? Why European integration? Because of her goals and values. How? By harmonising our legal system and implementing standards and harmonising relations with Montenegro. Who? All democratic and well-intentioned political forces that take care of the interests of Serbian citizens. When? Right away, until this goal is met. Where? In the country of Serbia, all over its territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6937	Is Mr. Alexander Vlahovic there? No, I don't. ( ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right? The word is Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6938	Since this is a united debate and there will be no time to discuss the SPS amendments, I want to say a few words about these two amendments, because they are essential to this debate on the proposal for a resolution on Serbia's accession to the European Union. Many speakers yesterday and today taught us that there was no need, no reason to mention the Partnership for Peace as the content of this declaration, nor that this is a problem for the adoption of this declaration, without giving any concrete evidence that the Partnership for Peace is a place in this declaration. Several times yesterday and today, several of our MPs reiterated that the Partnership for Peace is not a programme that is related to accession and membership in the European Union and we were absolutely right. If possibly our exposure had some dimension that was not founded, I was free to find a document issued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and said – Partnership for Peace, the meaning of that concept, "North-Atlantic Cooperation Council established in December 1991. The North Atlantic Council gathers allies from NATO and the state of the former Warsaw Treaty within a forum dedicated to security and co-operation issues. Three years later in 1994, a Partnership for Peace programme was launched to enable partner countries to develop individual co-operation programmes with NATO. As a substitute for the North Atlantic Cooperation Council in 1997, a Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council was established, etc. The main objectives of the Partnership for Peace are the public in the process of planning defence and military financing, democratic control of the armed forces, as well as the development of capacity for joint action of party countries forces and those members of NATO. '"Black on the White Partnership for Peace in this declaration of the place is gone and should not be. I also took this document that we received yesterday as MPs, as an educational reading for the debate on this subject. I've been going over a book called the European Integration Process in detail, and I haven't found a Partnership for Peace anywhere. I'm asking one logical question. Why the Partnership for Peace in the Declaration when the Partnership for Peace is not something that is related to the accession of any member of the European Union. Whether the small door wants to adopt the view that we have given support to the Partnership for Peace in the Assembly. If we really want the attitude of the Assembly and individual parties, then we should have put it as a special item of the agenda. It is not acceptable for SPS members to have the declaration on Serbia's accession to the European Union as regards our country's relationship with NATO's Partnership for Peace programme. We don't want that question to be mentioned here, and the content of that program itself is enough. One of our colleagues mentioned today that no one is talking about what follows after the Partnership for Peace, that is NATO purgatory, some have admitted. It is a matter of several dozen billion costs to adapt the entire defence system to NATO standards. That someone should pay, and that will be our citizens, and especially what is done about destroying the state military industry. If we continue to reform the army like this, we will lose the subject of reform, because we left them with nothing, we left them without basic living conditions. If you wanted to discuss the Partnership for Peace then you should have said it publicly. The Partnership for Peace in this resolution of the place was not and should not be and we have proposed simply to erase that attitude. Another thing about The Hague. True, the SPS cannot accept the position set out in this resolution specifically seeking the transfer of Hague indictees to the court. It's part of a resolution that can't be seen, but yesterday I found that document from Thessaloniki and quoted it. It's not acceptable for us, and it needs to be known. Do not lecture us about the need for painful decisions. What painful decisions? They weren't mentioned. It's called The Hague. Why don't you mention Kosovo and Metohija? Is this part of the painful decisions we need to make to Serbia to be a member of the European Union? If we are to be a member of the European Union and give up Kosovo and Metohija, then we should not be a member of the European Union. The Hague court has its own century. What will we do if the duration of The Hague court is foreseen by 2008, and it is mentioned that in 2012, we will be a member of the European Union? The Hague court has its own political need, and it has almost met that need. He's missing evidence, and that's why he needs his associates in evidence. Because the Hague court was founded to justify what NATO countries have done to our country together with America. And that's that 78 days and nights bombed us, made numerous human and material sacrifices and damages and sought justification for this process. The subject of international obligations includes co-operation with a permanent court, criminal, international in Rome. Why not mention it? After all, or at the beginning of things, we in Serbia still have a valid constitution. Even this resolution mentions the proposal, which is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Our Constitution forbids the extradition of citizens and that must be known. Finally, it is interesting to mention how the position in parliament changes the views of individual MPs. And it is interesting to note that the obligation to hand over four generals, since this is an ongoing topic, also those who in December of last year, but then as a government, made a decision that those four generals should not be extradited. Is that the principle of politics you're talking about, or is it politics? Of course, it's about politics. So now we're not the government, we're not the government, now we're something else, so now people can go to The Hague, they can be extradited. This is not a responsible relationship with either the issue or the state. We believe that for these two positions in the document, which lies in front of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there was no place and we do not know the reasons for the proposing - why it went at all costs to such formulations. We felt, and today, that if the motionor really wanted to express the unity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he could have found a different way to express this unity and that all parliamentary parties represented in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia voted on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6939	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Proposer's representative want a closing statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6940	I have to start by saying, unfortunately, that to the most extent, this debate marked day-to-day policy and re-replace thesis. Namely, a fundamental issue of our relationship with the EU is being raised, and in this sense there is one thing in which we all agree, at least declaratively, is that we all advocate that Serbia-Montenegro become an EU member. That's good. The problem, however, is that the EU's attitude is not measured by good wishes. The attitude towards the EU is measured by the fact and I can agree that if we were to analyse what has been done so far on this issue, very little has been done. In global terms, in the most generic sense, very little has been done, and just now the motions for a resolution were absolutely conscious. They were aware that it was necessary for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legislative institution in the country, to determine a political position, a binding political stance towards all institutions of the Republic of Serbia. Just because we were all aware of the fact that there is much left to be done, and that we are actually as a state at the very beginning of the European integration process. At the very beginning, we are the very fact that we have not yet signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, an agreement that leads to candidate status for EU membership. For a reminder, it is also a sad fact that we, besides Bosnia and Herzegovina, are the only country that has not signed the agreement. One of the main obstacles to the signing of this agreement was that they were two obstacles. One was the harmonisation of Serbia-Montenegro's economic system, and the other was co-operation, i.e. non-co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The first obstacle was removed just over a month ago, when the EU adopted the so-called. The principle of double track, according to which economic systems are harmonised directly with the European system, where internal harmonisation is thus unnecessary, and allows for the acceleration of the process. As for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the EU is not satisfied with the co-operation at the moment, nor is it satisfied with the UN tribunal. We can discuss whether or not we should co-operate with that tribunal. Whether that tribunal is fair or not. Whether it's political or not. And we'll probably all have the smallest common denominator here, too. There is no person in Serbia who will stand up and say that it is an entirely just court, that it has not been politicised at all and that there has been a lot of bias in it. However, it remains as a fact, and the obligations to it remain as a fact, not only because the EU is asking us, or anyone else, but because we have committed ourselves to it as a member of the UN and we have committed ourselves to our positive regulations, that is, the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Therefore, these are facts. So, the fact is that we're not still a candidate for membership, that we probably won't be in the nearest period. The fact is that there are certain conditions that, in order for that status to be achieved, we have to meet and the question arises - when we start from that first point, which is that we all want to be members of the EU, what we should do, and then we come to the fact that we cannot agree, or that we are not all ready to do what needs to be done to achieve that status. And, then, there's no point in even saying that we're all for the EU anymore. Because the EU's relationship is determined by what we do to reach the EU. That's the essence of this resolution. So we were aware, and we were aware that there was a lot more to be done. That's why we're talking to this assembly. That's why we went through the resolution to the government. That is why we address all those factors that play a role in this process. They're unions, they're employers' associations, they're NGOs. These are religious communities, these are all Serbian citizens, who should and will participate in the process, which will be affected by the process. It is the only way we can realise EU membership, and it really has no alternative, and that is why this resolution is necessary, not only for this Assembly but for all citizens of Serbia and I hope that it will be adopted as such in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-10-07-0.u6941	Thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on amendments submitted to the motion for a resolution in general in the day to vote. Please, I am scheduled to vote or resume this session, since we have two more points, on Wednesday, October 13th, at 10.00 hours.
