ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Since 93 MPs are present in the O.R., I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Staniša Stevanović and Miroslav Petkovic (before noon). We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Law on Local Self-Government (joint principled search with the 18th point-again) Do the presidents, or representatives of MPs' groups want a word? The word is by MP Goran Knezevic, an authorised representative at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10192	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the ministry, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax for 2005 are also the consequence of the continued adoption of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party supported all the positive solutions a few days ago of the adoption of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, it's a good thing that public spending is being reduced, and that probably affects the competitiveness of the domestic economy. It is good that the budget deficit decreases, and it is likely to meet the International Monetary Fund to write 15% of the debt to the Paris Club of Trustees. On the other hand, it's very bad that this budget, adopted the other day, doesn't have any development components. The funds for the economy are at the level of 2002, the agricultural budget and capital investments are on the decline, there is nothing since housing, and the railway is likely to collapse. Most of all, in this Budget Law was wrong about the AP Vojvodina budget and local self-government, and that is the biggest problem. The AP Vojvodina Assembly launched an initiative to rebalance the Republic of Serbia's budget and I hope we will be in a position to discuss it in this House. As for local self-government, the adoption of these two laws will make it very difficult for local self-government to function in 2005. Three problems are obvious. The first problem is deadlines for making local decisions on budgets and criteria. In fact, the Budget System Law imposed certain procedures and dynamics on decision-making in local self-government. All this begins with a memorandum of government and ministry, to follow the instructions of budget users, both direct and indirect, and in order for public debate to take place, according to the dynamics of the law, on 15 November, the municipal council proposes a decision on the budget, and local self-government congregations by 15 December each year are obliged to adopt that decision on the budget. In the event of failure, temporary funding is followed, and today is December 10th, and I doubt that local self-government will succeed in bringing its local budgets, so we will likely have a problem that most local self-government will be on temporary funding, with all the consequences it carries on direct and indirect users of these budgets. Furthermore, so far it has been a practice, which is normal, that the Law on Budgets goes with the law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in transport tax. This time it's different. These two laws don't follow the Budget Law, and I have the impression that it was done on purpose, that we were placed in local self-government before the final act, because the amount of transfer funds is limited by this law to 13.8 billion. The ministry left us in the local self-government to lie between ourselves and, as you saw, that is, we will have a chance to see, yesterday there was a Finance Committee and over 70% of the amendments are about to increase certain local self-government transfer funds, and that these funds are being reduced to the city of Belgrade, since it has nominally the largest amount of funds. Also, in this law they did not provide detailed data on criteria, as was the case with previous laws. However, according to the new Article 99 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Self-Government, transfer funds are allocated according to the following criteria: the number of residents, number of departments and number of elementary and secondary schools, the number of children covered by social care for children and the number of social care facilities for children, environmental status, degree of development, size of territory of the unit of local self-government. However, this should have been followed by a tabular comparative representation of these local self-governments, so what we all suspect would not have happened, and most MPs from the National Assembly who are in local self-government talk about it, which is that the transfer funds were shared on the basis of political similarity. In this regard, Professor Zivkovic's amendment from the Democratic Party, which submitted the amendment and I hope that the amendment will be accepted on the adopted criteria. The other problem with these two laws is the scale of the funds. The Presidency of the Permanent Conference of Cities, chaired by Mr Veroljub Stevanovic, Mayor of Kragujevac, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, was attended by Mrs Lukac and Mr Stepanovic, said there was a surplus in local self-government and that in 2005, fewer funds will be transferred to local self-government. The Minister himself during the debate on the Budget Law, we saw in the tables we received yesterday and the day before yesterday, predicting that in 2004, local self-government will reach 81 billion dinars, and 88 billion are foreseen in 2005. However, it was a projection based on only six months. Yesterday we received new data based on a projection of 11 months, that these funds achieved in local self-government will be significantly higher, so we will get into a situation, if we consider inflation, that the real funds are about 7-8% lower in local self-government than they were in 2004. Furthermore, since 1 January 2005, it is known that sales tax is abolished and value added tax is introduced, which is the whole revenue of the Republic's budget. In local self-government, this should be replaced by an increase in participation in the income tax from 30% to 40% and a transfer of 13.8 billion dinars. The bill we tried to simulate in local self-governments, and I have a report from other colleagues who are in local self-government, local self-government will be damaged and denied for at least 10% of their income. Namely, the Ministry's account is different. They projected an extremely high salary increase in 2005 and then this increase from 30% to 40% of the participation leads to such a calculation. Also, given that we have major problems in local self-government with the collection of local and original incomes, of course because of such a situation in the economy and in society at all, we are in a position that local self-governments that have taken some steps have long-term investments and will not be able to realise their plans in the coming year. In addition, when determining the amount of transfer funds for local self-government, one very dangerous principle is affirmed. So the less original income, the more help the Republic. All those local self-governments that have a high degree of payment of original revenues and high original budget receipts have been damaged and punished by this distribution of transfer funds. I can tell you an example of the Grain. You have it in the table and you can look at it. Zrenjanin is fifth at the level of the original incomes, and in 16th place by the transfer revenues it receives from the Republic. It's a very bad recipe, a demagogy, and it's necessary to free citizens from certain duties to get more out of the Republic. I think it's a very bad recipe, and someone has to pay for it, and it will certainly reflect the future work of local self-government. The next problem is the transfer of funds, so the transfer technique itself, the 13.8 billion dinars. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, in the new Article 99, states that a proportional part of the transfer funds referred to in Article 1 of this Article is paid to a local self-government unit once or more times a month. Furthermore, the Law on the distribution of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget on the participation of municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade in the 2005 profit tax in Article 4 states that the finance minister is transferring to the municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade, to account for the payment of current transfers from other levels of government, in the period from 5th to 25th of the month for the current month of 1/12 amounts from Article 3 of this law. So it's obvious there's a certain problem. According to us, the transfer dynamics should not be related to the realisation of VAT revenues, but should, since it is a substitute for sales tax, be transferred twice a month, exactly a specific date and not be linked to the will of the ministry or any individual minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10193	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10194	No, I'm done. It is evident from all of this that local self-government has been denied for part of the income. This means that certain activities undertaken by most local self-government during the previous period will not be financed: environmental protection, the agrarian budget, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which has become an integral part of most of these local budgets. So, we're reduced to funding trusted jobs. None of the promised decentralisation and giving greater authority to local self-government. Obviously, this is an attempt by one party to control all financial flows in this country. After the National Bank of Serbia, after the business banks, after the insurance companies, after the Securities Commission, local self-governments came in line. The DS is against it and the DS won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10195	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted all parliamentary groups. The word has been given by the People's MP, Zvonimir Stevic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10196	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, the minister is gone, I'm afraid this will be a deaf conversation. Today, on the agenda of our session, it is a very important and important law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and the City of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005. Many planning and implementation of the overall development of local environments depends on the adoption of this law. However, according to the number of amendments submitted, it is clear that not all relevant criteria are respected and that almost all amendments relate to the redistribution of funds. I do not know why and for what reasons to escape the practice of carrying out the necessary consultations and giving reasons to all the presidents of municipalities on the legal project before entering the congregation procedure. Namely, the minister said consultations were held yesterday. However, the number of amendments deny that any agreement and agreement has been reached. I don't know why, for which reasons there were no representatives of Kosovo municipalities. At the same time, the question is why the institution of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities is not respected. What I particularly want to point out and ask for an explanation and explanation from Mr Dinkic and his associates, which is the treatment and status of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. In the draft law on the volume of planned funds for the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax for 2004, municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija had the same status as other municipalities and cities in the Republic. This is particularly highlighted in Article 6 of the 2004 Law. I quote: "The products and services tax assets achieved in the territory of the city of Pristina and the municipalities of the AP Kosovo and Metohija are directed to the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia's Treasury. Funds under article 1 will be transferred to the city of Pristina and municipalities in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. The schedule of the 2nd article is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the Serbia-Montenegro Coordination Centre and the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija." In the 2005 law, there are no municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija, and there is no reason why they are not represented again, except for a lot of smut, it seems the order works, in Article 5. The law on the 2005 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which established the scope and purpose of the funds for units of local self-government in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. This does not mean anything and there is no guarantee that these planned funds will be realised. Does this mean that this approach puts the dilemma in place, since over the year, according to indications, talks on the province's status are expected, so that the foreign exchange "until we know whose it will be, that we do not invest"? Kosovo municipalities are in the jurisdiction of the UNMIK administration, but they are not expected to invest in the development of infrastructure in Kosovo and Metohija. However, I believe that the state, including the competent ministries, are obliged to invest in municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, if they want the people to remain and survive, and investment is an integral part of the government plan of the Republic of Serbia on a political solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. I want to support these findings on the need for investment and the allocation of funds in Kosovo and Metohija with the following data and arguments. Although municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, according to the legal obligation, have been treated as everyone else in the Republic, local self-government authorities have received only six months of earnings until today. I express the reservation according to the assurance that it will be compensated in the following year, because according to the Co-ordination Centre information, only ten months of earnings will be paid from the authorities in the coming year, which means that local self-government workers from Kosovo and Metohija will be down seven salaries. Otherwise, it is necessary to stress that a change in the way in which the profits are paid, as well as a review of the Government of Serbia's regulation on the amount of compensation, especially in the categories of displaced persons, is necessary. If the intended purpose is not to pay off, the funds are not provided, the question is rightly asked whether they will be serviced regularly and neatly towards education, because in many schools in Kosovo and Metohija teaching takes place in very difficult conditions, in three shifts, which does not contribute, there is no doubt, the necessary quality of the educational process. Not to mention other investments and investments, which should contribute to a better and more normal life of internally displaced and other Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Negative and sad examples, although we are in the 21st century, which are many Serbian enclaves in this winter period and a few days without electricity and without heating. The most illustrating examples are Lapleg Village and Dobrotina, who are trying to solve their problems by blocking roads these days. Apparently, there is a kind of psychological pressure, such as the reason there is no electricity is that citizens of Serbian nationality do not pay spent electricity, and by information and arguments, assuming that all Serbs pay for electricity, this would not affect the debt owed by Kosovo and Metohija citizens or 1-2%. Some 70-80 percent of Albanians do not pay spent electricity. Also, I want to ask a question relating to the payment of temporary fees to workers working in Kosovo and Metohija, and their number is 28.577, of whom lives in Kosovo and Metohija 10.827, and van Cosmeta 17.730. Who, in fact, gives himself the right to cut 500 to 700 dinars off every month of this anyway? When you multiply it by 27,000, then you can see what kind of numbers it is. It is also justified to ask whether there is a record of how much resources are collected on behalf of other revenues, as a significant part of the funds are collected from the payment of fees on behalf of the revenues of the city authorities of the administration, under the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I have received a proposal from the Association of the Humanitarian Centre for Integration and Tolerance from Novi Sad to amend and supplement the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, where it is proposed and recommended to the local communities' congregations to free the payment or to reduce the payment of taxis on behalf of the revenues of the city authorities. Namely, what's this about? For example, for a five-member family it is necessary to obtain a copy of the birth certificate and trust on citizenship to pay 2,750 dinars, without the cost of travel and stay. If documents are obtained from the home office in Nis, for these persons it is a large and almost insurmountable financial obstacle, which leaves them without elementary status documents, and they are a condition for the exercise of many human rights. This proposal also applies to displaced persons. Otherwise, all inhabitants of KIM obtain these necessary personal documents. Finally, I would like to point out that it is high time that, due to the extremely complex situation after five years of the arrival of the international force in KIM, all state authorities are fully involved in resolving the accumulated problems of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The SPS, as well as Kosovo Socialists, therefore consider it necessary to form a state council for Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible, to form a fund for Kosovo and Metohija, to reshuffle the human resources of the KIM co-ordination centre. Only with this kind of approach quickly and efficiently can we solve the complexity of the KIM situation. Otherwise, I am afraid it will be too late to help the Serbian people who tied fate to KIM or are forced to move, with the hope of returning to these premises, because only with this help can we preserve the state premises of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10197	The People's MP Milan Markovic has the word, and let the MP of the people, Sava Urosevic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10198	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the previous speaker, and I would ask the chairman to see if it is possible to ensure the presence of the minister at this debate. This is a very important topic and it is unserious to talk, because if there is no minister, our appeal to change in the existing law has no one to be referred to.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10199	Mr. Markovicu, the secretary is about to review the possibilities and we'll do everything possible for the minister to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10200	All the matter of the dignity of the National Assembly is not a whim, that the minister attends the debate when it comes to a law that is on the agenda, which he represents before the government. I would ask fellow MPs of the ruling coalition to try to secure the quorum, to keep more than 84 MPs in the room all the time. It's because of the MPs themselves. So these two laws that we have before us today are completely deviating from the system that has been in force in this country for the past 50 years. We do not understand what approach is and why the existing practice is changing, but we have found that this is bad practice and that these are bad laws. What bothers us is that Minister Dinkic does not properly respect the National Assembly or parliamentary groups, or all those subject to the laws he makes. That is how this law was passed without adequate consultations with representatives of local self-government and without adequate consultations with the MPs. We don't think that's right, because we'd save him a lot of time, we'd be able to clarify a lot of ambiguities if we could sit down with the minister for an hour and give him all the objections we have to these laws. This is a completely wrong approach, giving a new meaning to the term local self-government. We all probably know what local self-government is like as a principle, as a civilization achievement. But I have the impression that Dinkic implies under the term "local self-government" that he alone manages, only he or only the G17 manages everything and everything in this country, from UBPK, we will now and to local self-government, as long as he manages the G17. What is a key question – what criteria were run by the minister to propose such a law, which are criteria on which we could talk today and say whether the funds are sufficiently determined by local self-government or not. It's an essential thing, and I'm going to show you on a simple case of what it looked like before. This is an old bill on the volume of funds and participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit and sales tax in Belgrade in 2004. He's at least twice as big as the bill we have here. What's interesting, if you look at these tables, you'll see a series of criteria based on which we can, in parallel, come up with an analysis to find out why and which municipality did it belong to and how much transfer funds and how much revenue for the coming year. We can easily see whether the criteria are objective, whether there has been some failure and whether we are or are not satisfied with the way these funds have been distributed. What does the bill we're talking about today look like? It looks about like this: that's it, the listed cities, the numbered funds and that's all. In addition to this, the Law on Local Self-Government is amended, and there are a number of criteria on which it is unclear who took part in the decision, i.e. in the scope of the funds that local self-government will have. Therefore, with the right of most MPs here, especially the ruling coalition, comment on this law and it is clear that some municipalities where G17 has received significantly greater funds than other municipalities. There is one more thing here that is controversial, which is an approach to the municipalities, the city and the city of Belgrade. Unlike the previous approach and the current Law on Local Self-Government, which envisioned the next participation ratio, which is 8% for municipalities, for cities 10% and for the city of Belgrade 15%, according to this law, participation is 40%. Then comes the figure that many MPs have responded to with the amendments, that the city of Belgrade is being transferred to five billion and I don't know how many millions of dinars. It does not go to Belgrade for five billion because Minister Dinkic loves Belgrade. It is precisely because these revenues that go to Belgrade for automation would be lower and that much more Belgrade would depend, literally, on the will of Minister Dinkic. Would that have happened if, by any chance, Nenad Bogdanovic had not won in Belgrade, but had won the G17 Plus candidate? Would 14.4% of the income then depend on the good will of the minister? Who guarantees that 14.4% of the income will land in the city's register? Who knows what it's gonna be like to fill up the republican budget? The fundamental problem that has led many MPs to submit amendments is the principle that was changed after 10, 15, 20 or 30 years of functioning. There have always been 8% of municipalities, 10% of Belgrade, 15%, because Belgrade performs a number of functions far more expensive and extensive than the functions of the municipalities. We have proposed an amendment, but given the mood of the Finance Committee, we have withdrawn the amendment, but I will read to you a part of that explanation so that it is clear to you and the public that this is not about someone being privileged, especially not Belgrade, because Belgrade may be the city most damaged by such a bill. The first thing I want to say is that Belgrade is a budgetary framework nominally smaller than what will be the implementation of the 2004 budget. In nominal terms, Belgrade will have less money next year. In real terms, I don't have to explain it to you, we've got about 12% inflation. Realistically, Belgrade will be damaged, with 15% less money available, provided Minister Dinkic transfers everything he needs to transfer to Belgrade during 2005. I honestly doubt it, because if there was a good will, why would the rule of what is now being made, which is one illogical system in the distribution of these funds. I think that there is indeed a desire for political influence on Belgrade, local self-government and elsewhere where the G17 does not have the appropriate positions they would like. It is a kind of abuse of power, such as when the second minister from G17, Tomica Milosavljevic, replaced all the directors of the home of health who are not from G17 or like now when the director of the "Sribijah" is replaced because he wants to appoint his staff as directors, despite the fact that they do not have adequate expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10201	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10202	Based on this proposed financing structure for the city of Belgrade for 2005, the city loses around 3.5 billion dinars compared to its current financial status. Given that the city's 2004 budget is damaged by over two billion dinars in the same way, Belgrade has been left without 20% of the budget for the past two years, seriously questioning the financing of current needs, the reconciliation of commitments for programmes and projects, and in particular the reconciliation of commitments on concluded contracts. And I don't know if I should get used to G17 plus MPs, if you're warning me, warn them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10203	Please allow the speaker to say what he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10204	Therefore, this seriously calls into question the financing of current needs, then the reconciliation of commitments for the programmes and projects taken over, and in particular the settlement of commitments on concluded credit agreements with international organisations. In particular, we draw attention to the financing agreement signed between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the government has pledged to support everything envisaged, i.e. envisaged investment projects, guaranteeing stable and predictable, so I repeat, stable and predictable sources of financing for the city of Belgrade. In addition, it is necessary to provide the city of Belgrade with the possibility of realising a loan from the European Investment Bank, where the investment project is scheduled to be financed by 50% from the loan and 50% from the city's budget. Our proposal was to increase participation in the income tax from citizens from 40% to 50% in accordance with decades of practice. Then there wouldn't be these famous five billion transfer funds. Minister Dinkic, of course, refused our amendment, and we do not cultivate the illusion that the Assembly can do anything and change. To conclude, this law is totally unacceptable to us. We certainly won't vote for him. Not only is Belgrade damaged, Belgrade is the most damaged by this law, very seriously damaged, and there are cities that have been better and that is true. Just as we from Belgrade understand all those cities that are also damaged by such a law, so all of you should have understanding for Belgrade, because Belgrade is our capital city and it is necessary to develop in accordance with its needs and capabilities, proportionately as it does in other Serbian cities. I hope this is the last time that it is deviating from the decades-long principle and that this principle is determined that one political group, which no longer practically exists as a party, gives the opportunity to control all financial flows and even local self-government throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10205	Replica, Mr. Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is saddened, therefore, that we listen to this amount of untruth for the Assembly speaker of DS MP Milan Markovic. First of all, as far as the quorum is concerned, the parliamentary majority always makes a quorum, and that's clear to everyone. The parliamentary majority will do so in the future. Here is the G17 plus one of the most disciplined parliamentary groups, we are always in full numbers. I ask you, Mr. Markovic, whether you're always here or you come in here with bad words to lecture us here from time to time, but now I'm telling you it's unfortunate that DS, or thinks of yourself as democratic, is here to discuss with one whole democratic bloc in such a way, such rhetoric and such a dictionary. Do you really think that that way we're going to go together in the future right, because I think you need to think carefully about how to address the MPs in general, and in general, I mean talking in general. You said what the G17 plus controls. Based on coalition agreements, G17 plus manages those resources that we've got, and how it manages. If you know what household management means, if you know what accounting means, if you know what accounting means in all areas where we have the opportunity to have, then that's the only word everyone in Serbia understands, and that's to be a host, because it's not easy and it has to be learned. So to learn first order, to welcome and wash the man properly, to learn how to talk and to learn how to keep the property and money and properly with it. As far as health care is concerned, and you mentioned that, only 15 of the 236 health institutions have changed their leadership. Do you think you can convince someone like that? Here I can tell the Minister of Health that it's time for everyone who isn't capable, who's wrong about the law to be replaced; what's waiting, but what's to be replaced by incompetent and bad executives, and that's the essence of the story. Secondly, I'm going to tell you, I don't think it's a good idea to challenge me, but this time I'm going to bypass Palilla, where you were president of the municipality. For managing, I'm going to tell you, it's not possible that the President of the Republic should also manage 15 advisers, thinking they're resolutions, because the government of Serbia has resolutions and she's an executive body. I think we all need to be serious. If we think that the democratic forces lead this country to Europe, towards a serious democratic, or towards the creation of a serious democratic structure in our country, then I think that only a responsible story, for what you have evidence, you can bring out, not this flat-rate. Indeed, I think a series of false things you can't justify here. Keep in mind in the future about a dictionary and how to address an important parliamentary group such as G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10207	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10208	I see Mr. Albianic is excited, that's because the truth hurts. As for the mention of the Palilu municipality, my only sin against G17 plus is that I didn't allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10209	Tell me what member you're in contact with.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10210	A man is telling a lie, threatening from a pay phone, etc. So G17 plus won't be doing a classification on Palilla, because you've taken enough money. I repeat, you won't be working, and that's why your municipal board was torn apart. You have an MP who sits here because people haven't agreed on interest, because at the republican level, you're making a much better deal on interest, and that party of yours or the group, as it's already called, financial callers, that JUL plus came to an end. Don't be free, you should look like a man, so you can threaten. Now, you tell me, from G17 plus, which is not true about what I said about financing municipalities and cities in Serbia. Somebody come out and say what's not true. Is it true that five billion health funds depend on the will of Minister Dinkic or not. Is it true that you have brought down the principle that has been in force for decades about 8 to 15% of the share of sales tax at that time, and now in profit tax. Is that true or not true? How you Belgrade MPs are not ashamed to yell and throw you here. Well, you live in Belgrade. What if Dinkic says Belgrade is coming down tomorrow, you'll vote for it too. You should be ashamed, and it's a shame to be a member of G17 plus, and surely we won't have a coalition with you, don't worry, because you won't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10211	Replica, MP Albianic. Just before I give you my word, please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Here, I'm giving you a replica. Let us try to pay tribute to other parties and other MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10212	Mr. Chairman, I do not abuse the Rules of Procedure for any moment. So I'm entitled to a replica by the Rules of Procedure. I really hope that what's said here from the pay phone isn't the majority opinion of the DS, which I think is because I suppose Mr. Markovic is not asking questions there. You have a problem with principles, not G17 plus. G17 plus those original principles stick to and will continue. We are here to create democratically strong, strong and European Serbia. If you think that's not good, I'm sorry. We think it is, and we'll fight for it with all our strength, and you'll see better and better. As for a municipal board of G17 plus, which you mentioned, there are, of course, municipal committees in the infrastructure of the parties that have something going on. But to you, I mean, you'd better think about your faction in the DS and other things at the party level without dealing with individual councils of the G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10213	Thank you. No, you don't have the right... Mr. Markovic, you can't get a replica on the line. You've caused... I beg your pardon? Mr. Markovic, last time I told you – you did not mention a member who.... No, no, let me tell you, I will give you my word, but I ask you to treat the MPs with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10214	All right. We told each other what we had to say. My proposal remains to see if Minister Dinkic can come, because we intend to open this topic in front of him too, a topic concerning the participation of municipalities and cities in the income tax. For Belgrade, this is very important, and it is important for other cities, because there is a wrong approach that money is taken from Belgrade now, through amendments, and that it is given to the places where it really needs it, and we have nothing against giving those places and local self-governments where that money is needed, but it is necessary for Minister Dinkic to be there to be able to make our argument on the very height of the tax and, in that way, to end this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10215	Thank you. Just now, Mr. Danilovic, secretary of the assembly, has gone to try to secure the minister's presence. I suggest we work, and we'll get information when the minister comes to the assembly. The People's Messenger, Sava Urosevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10216	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come up with my discussion on a principled basis and I have tried to make as little political as possible. But given the fact that previous speakers have mostly talked about this problem with a political basis and I'm going to have to answer them in some way. To calm our passions, I will first try to explain, especially to my colleagues Markovic, who obviously doesn't know the things he's talking about, how there was this distribution of funds towards local self-government. Here in the Assembly, we passed the VAT Act, which is a different form of consumption tax than at this point. This form of consumption tax will apply from January 1st next year, so that with such a form of consumption tax many regulations and, among other things, the way of funding local self-government had to be harmonised. During my presentation, I will try to challenge some of the thesis Mr. Markovic brought here, and that is the the thesis that 15 years has not changed anything in the way of funding local self-government. If he remembers well, this year in March we already had a change in the way of funding local self-government by abolishing the income tax, which is a reform move. And already in March, when setting funds for local self-government, we had something that most local self-government representatives were pleased with because there were no concrete figures. This time, the main problem caused concrete figures and non-knowledge of matter from most MPs, who made objections in this way, as it is two incomparable sizes. Transfer funds, which appeared this time in the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, are only one part of the funds financed by local self-government and are completely incomparable with the funds that last year were provided for by the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government. In order to understand the reality of such a proposal properly, 2003 should also be observed. And, what Mr. Markovic said, that is another lie – that the funds for 2004 and 2005 are much smaller than they were in previous years. In the 2003 budget, significantly smaller funds were allocated to local self-government, and the best illustration for this is the percentage of the growth of funds that will be achieved in 2004 compared to those achieved in 2003. This growth is 26.5%, which represents a respectable growth that could not have been, given the strength of our economy, maintained in 2005. That is why in 2005, we have a 12% growth, and the assessment of the results in 2004 compared to the 2005 plan shows that it is 6.5% of the growth of the funds planned to finance local self-government. It's actually transfer funds and appropriations. A colleague, Knezevic, told the speaker that cities that make their own revenues at a higher level were punished in this way. He forgot about the basic principle of solidarity. And most of the colleagues who gave the amendments took care of their city only, and Belgrade's representatives for demagogue reasons accepted one such way, counting that it would cause dissatisfaction with most MPs and that the law would not pass. I am deeply convinced that there are real arguments for such a law and that it will be voted in the Assembly because these funds should only be observed in the context of 2003. - 2005. The charm of the growth of these funds from the municipality to the municipality is, in fact, the result of the fact that such charmingness existed in 2004 compared to 2003, so that they are now corrected and, I cannot say, illogically, but possible errors that have been made as a result of the shortened time for determining the funds that go to finance local self-government in March 2004, because you know perfectly under what conditions and in what time constraint the budget has been voted in this assembly. So, the 2004 budget was brought to Minister Dinkic's proposal, and for 2003, where the funds were 26% lower for funding local self-government, the minister was Djelic and supported by the DOS government. Therefore, a clear enough indicator. Belgrade has so far been in a legitimately privileged position as regards the percentage of the turnover tax left to finance the needs of our capital. It's our capital, 15% is one real measure for such a city. We inland always with a lot of arguments can say that we send our children to Belgrade for studies and that they contribute to a larger income in Belgrade. MPs, most of whom are from the interior, receive their salaries in Belgrade and part of the income tax remains with Belgrade, does not remain with our cities. The principle of 80-15, to call it that, had to be broken. It is another proof that Mr. Markovic did not read or know enough of the matter he talks about, or the story from purely political initiatives. The sales tax no longer exists, it was introduced as a form of tax on value added tax and could be maintained. This is a completely unpredictable category, because there is no experience and no balance in the achievement of value added tax, as it is certainly known that sales tax is realised and realised in that city where final consumption is carried out. In this case, in the case of value added tax, the smallest part of consumption tax is realised in the city where final traffic is made, or where the consumer comes and buys a product. Probably, I suppose, in the budget for next year, when experience is gained in relation to value added tax will be changed again, the third year in a row, financing local self-government. This will lead to a lot of minor concerns with most fellow MPs. What's most important, this kind of disturbance, to call it that, is caused, and that's the first effect, when the law came to the hands of the MPs and they tried to compare two incomparable sizes. These are the transfer funds for 2005 and what we had in the 2004 Bill as the total funding needed to finance basic activities in local self-government. The G17 plus party will vote for this bill. I am deeply convinced that this is a real amount of funding for most municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10217	Here you go, authorized representative of the DS Parliamentary Group Goran Knezevic. You're reporting for replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10218	I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10219	You're mentioned, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10220	Just a few sentences. A colleague, Uroševic, spoke about the principle of solidarity. The principle of solidarity, of course, and yes, and we're all for it, and we want to do it. However, a second principle of solidarity should be established before this principle of solidarity, the principle of establishing the criteria. That was our objection to these two laws. We don't have clear criteria. It says there, the number of inhabitants, the area, the number of departments, children's protection and all that, and how to explain then that the same size of cities, with similar coefficients, the municipalities of Zrenjanin, Leskovac, Čačak, Kruševac, Kraljevo, have approximately the same population, the same number of primary school classes, secondary schools, children under child protection and that the transfer funds for Zrenjanin are 70 and 80% lower than in these cities. This is what we are talking about, the clear criteria that should first be established, and only after applying the principle of solidarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10221	Thank you. The information says the minister is on his way to the Assembly, so I expect him to join us any minute now. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the People's MP Dobrica Jankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10222	When a two-law debate is brought together, and someone convinces us that it's a good thing and that there's some logical connection, I have to tell you that there's been another mistake. First, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government on behalf of the Government defends the finance minister. I hope you haven't cleared the Minister of State Administration and local self-government. This is really his matter. With these few members, where you're making an intervention on this bill, you're practically changing your system view of the system of funding local self-government. There has long been this approach that there are three sources of funding, and that's what they are. the original revenues belonging to local self-government, where local self-government, under the legislation of the prescribed limits, determines the municipal fees, fees and other original incomes belonging to local self-government. The second part of the source of the funds, that's that the Republic is giving in to the local self-government unit, and it's always giving in to trusted jobs. He doesn't give in because he, I don't know, likes- doesn't like some community, etc. Some of the incomes that originally belong to the Republic are due to the fact that there are areas in which jurisdiction is shared, and in some areas the Republic has transferred this right to act as a first-degree body of the unit of local self-government. A classic example of this is birth certificates. It's government business, but it's estimated that it can be better done if it's done in local self-government units. The third source of these funds, which is obviously the biggest fight in power, so a large number of government deputies tabled amendments on a proposal from their government, it's unrecorded in history, you're tearing down the government this way, but that's your problem. That's a deal you need to make before the bill comes into practice here. As you noticed, we didn't interfere here, we didn't want to submit amendments so that it wouldn't be misread, something in the distribution of these funds between municipalities. These are the additional funds that should allow for covering those holes that can be reported in the local public finances system. Since there is not only a criterion, but there is no criterion, it is not enough to specify just the number of inhabitants and to know the number one, the budget so much and so much, so if the number of institutions is said, I guess that one institution draws in the monetary expression so much and so much. That's what the presidents of the municipalities who sit around to see as something that's objective. What's now written, this comes as a dwarve. Drop your hand at half past six, and let's see how far it goes. Of course, this is a good opportunity to look at and show, a good analysis has been made, and I don't want to go into this analysis because it's someone else's, and I have to realize that the estimated total income of local self-government for 2005 is 8% higher than in 2004. That's an estimate. When it comes to these assets that we treat with this law, it's a 5% increase. There's something wrong. In math, it's not right. If the total revenues of local self-government funding municipalities are estimated to increase by 8% compared to 2004, then the same percentage would have to increase the amount of funds that the Republic grants to local self-government units. We see a fall here and it's only 5% in the sum, and 3% is lost somewhere. It is good that this problem has emerged, simply to remove the mask from a taboo imposed on Serbian citizens. It used to be said that some previous government held in a black villa local self-government, that everything was centralized, that everything was under control. I have to tell you, there is no more centralization and more control than the moment the Budgetary System Act was passed. Then DOS took over the vault and otherwise absolute control of all cash flows of local self-government. We understand each other right away, I'm not complaining because the state has an obligation to have insight, not only of the amount but also of the legality of using those funds, but it can't happen that something good is legal, if Pera did it, and if someone else does the same thing, then it's illegal. I'm also telling you because of this mental problem that you've imposed on the public. So we need a public income system, we need to settle it in one objective, comprehensive way. The state needs to make a statement about it, I need to draw attention to it, and about this part of the funds that are allocated to the units of local self-government, because he's doing entrusted tasks from the jurisdiction of the Republic. That's where I have to warn you. Those people who work and run home books in municipalities when they get paid, etc. share the fate of all employees in the municipal administration. There is a local self-government burdened by having to give the same working-law status for all employees. I'm distracting you, you need a comprehensive and secure system of distribution of these funds, control of the original incomes of local self-government and to dimension what the state can transfer to local self-government. Think about whether the part that's being transferred to local self-government can be done across the county or whether you need to design the districts. There's something like this that exists, and there's almost no jurisdiction at all. Not to open other painful topics, you should know that a large number of amendments by the government indicate that something is wrong here. That's what the proposer would have to take care of, so that we don't change this other law every two months.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10223	The People's MP Dobrica Jankovic has the word, and let the MP Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10224	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, our country is going through a period of transition and in this part, dealing with laws that are on the agenda, is going through a special crisis period, which is the introduction of VAT. Given that, then we could expect some tolerance from all sides for everything that's going on in this area. On the other hand, we are talking about laws that are on the agenda, heard in their announcement or in their explanation that we have handled certain principles, and above all we are talking about the principle of decentralisation in this area. It's about local self-government, their funding, their budgets, and when we say that we see certain shifts in terms of monitoring this principle of decentralisation, we can indeed confirm that there are certain shifts in this regard. However, when it comes to transfers of local self-government from the republican budget, then we are talking about the exact opposite principle when it comes to decentralisation, because exactly the opposite of decentralisation is when the flat-rate, rather than the alleged existence of criteria in determining the amount and transfer in local self-government, there is clearly a set right of the minister or ministry through certain services to determine how much and which of the local self-government the amount of transfers will be. This is the essence of the material aspect of our criticism when it comes to transfers to local self-governments from the republican budget, because how to explain the serious differences that are not based on the written criteria in question. They are not taxed according to the criteria of the parameters which have been taken into account and what we have heard about a certain justification or justification by Mr. Minister when it comes to it, which is what remains to be heard by the presidents of the municipalities to which the transfer is determined. The excuse is that there were almost local elections, so we haven't even been able to hold talks because local self-governments have not been established in all cities, but we've had examples that in some cities elections have not even been made because of the known circumstances and situations, and there we have some gaps in the sense that I speak about, which means that between what it says are criteria, that there will be respect for what is the actual expression of the distribution of these transferred funds, it is obvious that some other things have made decisions about the level of these transfers to local self-governments. Therefore, I would like to say in this context that we support the principle of solidarity in the distribution of these transfers, but in a positive sense, and the minister said that there are some 200 million dinars for such interventions, especially small municipalities, where they cannot, in the overall amount of budgetary local self-government, achieve their own programmes, and it is good that the ministry predicted to intervene there. It was necessary to remain in that position in this sense to express solidarity through budgetary transfers, to support this principle and to support this concept and the larger amount of funds, and not in this way and worst way, through the amendment to take from Belgrade and give to anyone, however, it is completely irrelevant. It's about principle, and that the basic principle is respected we wouldn't have any objections today to this law, which means we had clearly established parameters and criteria. We have the criteria set out, but the parameters derived from these criteria are not presented and have made the imbalance in the distribution of transfers to local self-governments. Therefore, with all the understanding for the elements that have made this matter ready, we must show dissatisfaction and point to the irregularities that exist at this time in the transfer to local self-government in the highest number of positions. At the very least, we expect the minister to succeed in materially defending the principles he was talking about, in a way that meets with the presidents of municipalities and cities, and then agreeing and balancing this financial project afterwards, and repairing this legal project that we are talking about today. If not, this law should be withdrawn and done as would be desirable and necessary for the development and implementation of all local self-government programmes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10225	The People's Messenger Bojan Kekic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10226	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the Law on the Allocation of Transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and how important laws are, especially for us, MPs who have an obligation to come forward to our local environments in the National Assembly, and all in the interest of meeting the needs of the local environment. For the SPS, these laws are extremely important for the simple reason that in more than 20 municipalities there are the presidents of municipalities and mayors, and in more than 60 municipalities we directly participate in the government. It is a great responsibility for us socialists to see whether local self-government in these cities works. We compared the draft budget and budget for 2004 to the proposed budgets, i.e. certain funds allocated from the Republic to local self-government, etc. transfer funds. I must honestly say that in the nominal amount of any objections in that way, I don't have any distributions. What matters and what I would stick to, first of all, is the execution of local incomes by the Republic, or so on. "Empty," as terminology puts it, according to local self-government. In the municipality of Požarec in 2004, although the Law on Local Self-Government has taxed all local incomes, which also relate to incomes from independent activities, have not been emptied throughout the year. The amount of these funds in 2003 was over 18 million dinars, which means that if the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia are not transferred in the next 20 days, the funds will be transferred by SO Pogorjevac for 20 million dinars. Comparing, in other municipalities of Braničevski County, the same situation in the Petrovic municipality, where about seven million dinars are owed to the Municipality of Velika Gradište, which means that the implementation of the budget towards local self-governments in this year went well and how difficult it was, especially, from that part of the five per cent privatisation funds. They are not regularly, or are not timely and neatly paid to local environments. I have noted that I have no objections about the transfer funds, but by amendment, which I will talk about when the amendments come to order, I have tried to correct through a certain way these missing funds, which have not been transferred. These are the very funds that belonged to the municipalities of Pogorec, Velika Gradište and Petrovac in 2004. Also, I have to say that we are not all locals, if I may say so, from the provinces to Belgrade, but if there are still neutral funds from the 2004 budget, and I note that we have not received the final bill for both 2002 and 2003, I think that these funds could be replaced in this way. At consultations in the parliamentary group with Minister Dinkic, we received a promise that those funds will be checked, whether they will be paid by December 31st. I would ask all MPs to, within the framework of these amendments and anything relating to these laws, coordinate neatly and in good time with their municipalities and to establish that the nominal amounts are not damaged. I would also ask the minister, if possible, and I believe that there is this data, that during the day we will receive an exact entry for the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget towards local environments in certain cities, and we will see exactly which cities have not been transferred. This will certainly be one of the bigger reasons for the withdrawal of certain amendments. Also, I will be able to talk if Radojko Obradovic does not withdraw his amendment. The amendment may be the most comprehensive at this time, which is that all municipalities are subject to a nominal amount of 12 per cent increase, and that by 31 March the general criteria for all municipalities, which would be adopted in our Republic and thus that all local self-governments, in accordance with their needs, will be met.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10227	National MP Knezevic, authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10228	The Honorable Chairman is an extremely important subject, and Mr. Minister is here. We are all delegates from some local backgrounds, and we should answer to these citizens for the actions we do in this assembly. I'm expressing my suspicion of the quorum and I'd like to ask you to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10229	The authorised representative has a right. Please confirm the quorum. Since it's obvious there's no quorum, a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. Before we start, let's see if we have a quorum. Put your cards in the MPs' units. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal is another indicator that we were right when we said when we adopted the budget that the budget was neither developmental nor social. I am an MP from Vrsec, and I will show you why I claim this is small, so that the government that thinks of its cities and citizens finds a way to return most of the money to the municipalities. As I participated in the debate on the budget, I remember that the minister said it would be desirable for local self-governments to participate with their money in the maintenance of hospitals, schools, roads, etc. I'll give you some information on Vrsec, so you can see what's going on with the citizens of this kind of distribution of funds. In Vrsac, we have a particular problem, that from 237 kilometers of roads, it is over 50 kilometers of asphalt. Of the 60,000 inhabitants, only seven-eight thousand have telephone connections, and whenever we talk, we talk about the 21st century, the road to Europe, etc. We've got villages without water, and some places don't even have electricity, so that's why they don't have water. We have an international road crossing. We have churches all over the villages that are collapsing. We have schools in villages that are currently collapsing, as well as in several villages. We have a European basketball championship next year, a group is held in Vrsac, which requires additional investment, if we want to make a decent introduction to the world and that the state benefits from it. When we see all of this and see that Vrscu has been assigned only 35 million, we realize that it's funny to talk about the development of municipalities. I mentioned Vršac because I'm from there, but every municipality in Serbia is somewhat maimed and we don't want to solve one municipality at a time, so that someone else can get more. The government has to find a way to get more money back to all municipalities, and it's not that it can't. I saw that in the budget debate. They repeat because of the public that over 750 million dinars were spent on various agencies, Nebojsa Covic was given several hundred million, that Boris Tadic, popularly called "Zuca", was given 180 million and eight luxury cars, to defend against Irish setsters, that the Shyptarian lobbyist who shames us all over the world, Vuk Draskovic, was given over 50 million. There are many other situations. I wouldn't put it all in order, since we only have a few minutes. For all the examples that exist, it would take me more hours. I would suggest you direct all that money into hospitals for hospitals, kindergartens, playgrounds, schools, purposely forward them. We think it's more important to ensure that the closets don't fall on children's heads than that Tadic rides with new armored limos. Let us consider what is more important to us, whether Tadic's limousines or a school that leaks in the village near Vrsac. Is it more important to figure out 70,000 or refugee villages that are in the mud, so our kids are coming home from school, making them come home because they're dirty, whether 45,000 are our priorities or lunches to children in schools and kindergartens? I think there must be a priority, which is currently helping the people to survive and welcome a certain victory of the SRS, so they can find a job, make the standard grow, know that they will have for food and for communals. Then we can buy some limos. Until then, he would have suggested that you help more municipalities, because the municipalities know what's wrong with citizens in their territories. I understand that from your paraphrasing black cars with black glass, smoking tompuss, snapping your hand, unpunished by human destiny, and that's why you're acting like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10232	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ispanović Istvan has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bajram Omeragic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10233	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, just a few notes about these two laws we're discussing today. We have heard here that these laws are late proposed, that local self-government will not be able to deliver their budgets by the end of the year. I think whoever has any knowledge of how local self-government works, or the local self-government assembly, knows that this is not the case, that the largest number of municipalities and cities will have budgets by the end of the year. In fact, the budget does not begin to prepare from the adoption of these laws, but is being prepared many months ago. All local self-governments have the practical data that we need these days to decide on, so they're just waiting for the official adoption of these laws, i.e. determining the transfer funds for local self-government, so that SO cities can make their own budgets. Otherwise, the same story is repeated as before. Everyone complains there's not enough funds for local self-government. In that sense, all the debaters are right, because I do not believe there are such local self-governments that could not spend multiple amounts than they should receive under this law on the scale of funds. Everyone has their own needs, so it is perfectly understandable that they are given the amendments, because everyone in some way wants for their municipality to provide far more resources than is proposed. Every year, amendments, like this year, to the law on the volume of funds, are being submitted, but I remember years earlier, that most of these amendments have never passed before, so probably more amendments will not be accepted this year. In particular, amendments were proposed to increase funds for a specific municipality, with such a proposal having its contradiction, so that these amendments are not legally possible, and I believe they will not be discussed during the debate on certain amendments. Those who criticise what is said, therefore, the volume of funds for individual municipalities, I think they should go from where the funds can be spent. I have one suggestion for all those who think we could possibly save somewhere, and you know that after these local elections certain provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government are now in place, and before that was not the case. You know, also, that the Law on Local Self-Government, starting with these last choices, let's say there's no executive board. There is a regulation body, meaning a congregation, and there is an authority that executes, or executive body in local self-government, and, in some ways, those who were MPs in the previous assembly know that another body has been invented in a magical way, and that is generally larger. That municipal council doesn't know what competences they are, so I hear from different backgrounds that, despite the fact that the municipal council has no jurisdiction, let's say, in the economy, education, culture, that people in the municipal council are largely appointed to do some work in the field of culture, in the field of education, in various areas. But I don't know what these people are doing. According to the Law on Local Self - Management, there is no provision under which these people could carry out these jobs allegedly chosen. So, not to say that these are mostly all paid functions, because there are about 10 or more members of the municipal council and they do some jobs, they have a paid function, but they are not competent to do any of the jobs for which they are appointed or selected. I would suggest to those who think they don't have enough resources to start saving and reducing the number of people who are in paid positions. In fact, those who are now, as far as I could read from the press, it is evident that not only are there in the municipalities of the president of the municipality, the deputy president, and in some municipalities they have asked for more deputies, regardless of what is not possible. Also, we have the presidents of the SO, these are the same paid functions, so vice presidents of the SO, and more deputies, and I don't know what these people are doing. They're mostly all paid-up functions, so I'm saying they could save those municipalities that have such functions. I don't think there's any reason why these two laws can't be passed and I suggest that, as G17 plus will vote for these laws, you vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10234	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10235	Ladies and gentlemen, today we've been in a debate from DS MPs, and I'd like to deny it. First, firstly, the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, Mr Pajtic, launched the the thesis a week ago that the AP Vojvodina budget was reportedly reduced by next year and even deceived AP lawmakers, giving information that the budget would be 10% lower. Today I hear from MP Markovic that Belgrade is reportedly going to have 15% less. Either it's politics, which I can understand, but that kind of policy I don't think is right when it comes to people's life problems and it's about sharing Serbia between regions and cities now, or it's about having basic knowledge, or not knowing math. I am ready for all those who have come out with the thesis that Vojvodina will have less and that Belgrade will have less 15% to hold appropriate consultations on the mathematical calculation of these percentages. Now, as for Vojvodina, unlike central Serbia, there will be 58% of the salary tax in Vojvodina, 40% are going to cities and local self-government, and 18% are staying 40% in central Serbia, while 60% are going to the republic. So, in Vojvodina less than half, so 42% goes into the republican register, and 58% remains the Vojvodina. I am not against it, of course, the province should have its own incomes, but it should not then be said that the province is damaged in relation to central Serbia or the like. Secondly, as far as Serbia's budget is concerned, it was brought in so that it increased 11% nominally compared to 2004. On the other hand, the province's budget planned revenue from 23.7% more in 2005 than in 2004. So it's not about 10% reduction, it's about growth by 23.7%. It will have 15.6% higher on the basis of the income tax and will have 26.4 on the basis of transfer payments coming from the Serbian budget to the province. So, 13.484,000, and these are transfer payments that, above all, go for education and social protection. Even in the performance of people from the province council, and this has happened today after this pay phone, said the province will not have the money to pay for social protection and child benefits. I have to say that this is not a province function at all, at least according to current laws, that until now and from now on, until this changes by other law, the Republic has paid for social protection, child benefits and municipalities are also being added to their territory, by their means. Otherwise, the allocations for Vojvodina for families and children and social protection next year will be 25.7 billion, and this year 18.4. That's 40% greater isolation. So, in addition to the transfers of the Vojvodina, which were shown to the Republic of Serbia's future as a transfer of AP Vojvodina, on budgets of different ministries, from capital investments, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, there are additional funds transferred to Vojvodina for dedicated programmes. When we talk about decentralisation and supporter I'm decentralisation, but decentralisation doesn't mean, as some say, just more money at lower levels. It means more jurisdiction, more responsibility. We have to go parallel. I hope that's where we all agree. The more money transferred to lower levels, but then as much responsibility as possible, and use the experience of developed countries. What are those responsibilities that can be passed on to lower levels and yet something that can't? It is clear that pensions must be paid from the central level, but therefore some other things, which depend on living at the bar, need to be transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government. As far as Belgrade is concerned, it was said for this speaker this morning that Belgrade is reportedly going to be damaged 15%, or so much less. We heard similar about this speaker in April, following the adoption of the first budget for 2004, that Belgrade will be damaged. Belgrade, however, which is good, is better when we have better performance, achieved 41% more of the sales tax than it achieved in 2003. In the first 11 months of this year, Belgrade transferred the overall plan for 2004, and the performance index was, as I said yesterday, 101.6%. Unlike Belgrade, Kragujevac had an index of 89.9% and that is why Belgrade was not damaged. Belgrade will have additional growth next year. Because Belgrade has achieved only on the basis of its original taxes in the first 11 months, so it has already been achieved, it is realistic, 13 billion 280 million, and in the plan that we have made, which was introduced into this law, we have set off from the figures for the first nine months. When we made the law, we couldn't have the data available in 11 months, we planned Belgrade and the taxed rate of 12 billion 205. So they've already reached 13,280 in 11 months, and 12,205 is planned for next year. We have unreally planned these revenues, and Belgrade will have a greater revenue volume next year than it was given in this budget, and we have estimated that it will amount to 39 billion. When we talk about local self-government revenues, we should not only talk about state transfers to local self-government, but first of all about original revenues. Belgrade only gets 14.4% of the transfer. Everything else is taxes, property taxes, self-employed taxes. As for the remarks that this 40% salary tax has been overrated, I have to tell you that this estimate has not been done by heart, but based on the profit tax performance, these 30% in the first nine months of this year. It is also not true that some MPs have not consulted with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities. It was held in this hall two weeks ago, a meeting with representatives of all local self-governments in Serbia and the presidents of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, where local self-government representatives themselves, even though we stayed at the meeting for three hours, had no significant objections to this schedule of funds. Everyone had objections to what we agreed with, that it was necessary to change the criteria. Because the current criteria give us a schedule like this. We promised to change these criteria together by March 31st next year, and I, as finance minister, would be the happiest to get a bill on local self-government, of course along with Mr. Loncar, not to do it, but to get it from you, to get it from the representatives of the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities. So, I repeat once again, what is certain is that smaller municipalities, which are poorer and which have a realisation in the first 11 months, say 80% of the budget, such as Žagubica, which is mentioned in this assembly, or like Žitorajje, will have larger transfers next year because of the poor municipalities. The group includes Sjenica, Sječanja, Bosilegrad. These are increasingly poor municipalities, which do not have a budget or close to what some other municipalities have. There are small municipalities that have had a relatively greater achievement than Belgrade. He's not a Belgrade record player. Chattina had 110% in the first 11 months of this year, because there is Zlatibor and because there are other incomes that are not transfers. So each municipality is a case for itself. Finally, I would like to say first of all that I am a Belgrade citizen, I am born in Belgrade, I live in Belgrade, and the accusations that I do not love Belgrade are really far from relevant remarks. I want to tell the Belgrade citizens and those who represented the interests of Belgrade. I think the province government, as well as the city, should go to a reduction in the state administration. All municipalities have space, some more, some less, to reduce administration. This is what I received at consultations with several parliamentary clubs as a proposal – to determine how many new people have been admitted to local self-government since 2000 and then to set criteria, the relationship between employment opportunities and the size and development of municipalities. Therefore, to establish in the new criteria one objective criterion is not to cross a certain number of employees, so as not to increase costs. So it doesn't turn out to be just suggesting to the province administration, which normally has twice the salary of the republic, and the number of employees is constantly growing, and here's only this new province government that's brought the people with it now, I think it should be done at all levels. We've already made a decision, the Republic government will cut the administration by 10% next year. I think the District Government has a way of doing the same, and I think it's a good part of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10236	The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10237	The Honored Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, honourable MPs, I wanted first to make a couple of principled remarks on this proposal, they refer to a principle rarely applied in modern Western countries, which is to carry out this type and degree of centralisation of funds intended for local self-government. From this we conclude that this is actually about state self-government, not local self-government. Because, simply, local self-government here is being placed in some sort of passive actor who should wait for something to be shared with her. And what I've talked about many times in the Assembly, we've adopted a new budget, we have a new policy for this year, and we don't have what many countries today have in Western, developed Europe. We have many examples where these developed countries have ministries of balanced regional development. Unfortunately, we don't think that we need it, in a country where we have regional differences that don't exist anywhere in many developed countries, but in these countries, in the West, developed countries, we have both north and south, and east and west, and all countries have this inconsistencies in development. That is why these countries, some, formed such ministries, which form funds, have budgets, and even such laws and similar ones, if they are brought somewhere in Europe, pay attention to what it means to be an undeveloped municipality, which means having, for example, an undeveloped municipality. A school like we have in our region, in Sandzak. For example, in Novi Pazar, I think there is no such example anywhere in Serbia, that children in primary school, in fourth grade, work in three or four shifts. This is nowhere in Serbia, nowhere in Europe, but the country in our region has been building a school for 25 years. I ask how it's possible from the local budget, if you say you have four shifts in your village, whether there are, and if there is, let an MP come and tell me that there's a school in Serbia that works on four shifts. It's kids till fourth grade. I see that this transfer is also how it is handled that such facts are not respected, although local self-governments in Tutin, Sjenica and other cities in our region are regularly required by the Ministry of Education, and there are no reactions, there is no participation in funding what is vital for the development of each society, and there is no word on the global balance of economic development at that regional level. I have to say that something else happened, and the minister here mentioned two weeks ago that representatives of the municipalities gathered, Novi Pazar didn't get that call, and we weren't, I don't know why, nor do I blame the minister, I don't know if his administration had made an appointment, but we checked in our archive that there was no official letter from the Ministry, and neither did our financial service officers, and the mayor didn't get that call. We didn't get a chance to talk about this at the time, so now I have to say a few of those things. I mentioned this kind of centralization, and we didn't get a parallel analysis here where we still have this kind of centralisation of funds and this kind of financial centralization in one of the European countries. It goes directly into something called the right of local self-government to defend the concept of self-government. This is how we determine how much will be transferred and how, by some criteria, I mentioned, and there is a number of residents there, I don't know, education and so on, and I heard from the minister that he was also saying that about the criteria something was going to be done. That's why I'm warning and I want to say that cities, such as Sjenica, Tutin, NoviPazar, Priboj, are almost in a very bad situation because they are cities with almost the worst infrastructure in this country. I do not confirm this as an MP, this is confirmed by the expert services in the area of infrastructure, and whether it is a road network, whether it is a water network, whether it is all other infrastructure problems. Unfortunately, nothing in this area is being funded for now, and the problems I want to talk about here happen. Last year, in Novi Pazar, courts made various decisions on the return of land to people who had previously been taken away from land, and factories were built on that land. These factories are privatized, sold, and former owners get judgments in court proceedings and Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin and other cities have to return millions of figures to us. Last year, in Novi Pazar, we had several months of blocked accounts because, because of the executive judgments, they were automatically removing funds from local self-government, because someone was once deprived of land. And by some analysis, that's how the factory "Raška" was done or something. They're now being sold, and local self-government has nothing to do with it. When land is sold, the agency takes money from sold land, but the local self-government pays the one to whom land was once taken away, justly or unfairly, these judgments are determined by regularity, and we have a situation where when someone sued the municipality of Novi Pazar and other municipalities in the region, the courts are up-to-date, expressive, in a few months they make final judgments. From municipal to supreme. When the municipality sues someone, those processes are seven, nine years apart. I want to call on the fact that New Market sues a lot of subjects and that in five years, no case has been solved in his favor. Therefore, the attack is carried out on those assets that we have. The situation is such that almost 5,000 people have been out of work since January alone in Novi Pazar, and precisely because of what I was talking about from the beginning of the year, because of the uncontrolled imports of textile shoes and everything in the world, without the criteria that exist today in modern Europe. We've heard many times in the New Market people make Texas and say, "That's "Levis," that's this, that's what, and we have the grudges of Levis and some others that they have to have protected companies. Gentlemen, today, the Puma factory, Adidas and all the other world firms are suing Chinese companies for fake stamps, but Chinese goods are imported, and Puma, and Adidas, and T-shirts, and textiles, and shoes and everything else. It's a big deal that something in the New Market is being smuggled or something else is going on there, so according to the New Market, it can reduce what's being given to it. In that sense, I must conclude that nothing is still changing in relation to the criteria and these transferred funds towards our region, and the government is not doing much to make this balanced development effective and to help all measures when it comes to the budget, when it comes to planned infrastructure development. I want to invite you to pay attention to one more fact, we had here and in the federal parliament giving counter-guarantee to water in various cities of Serbia, we have no counter-guarantee for Tutin, nor for Senica, Novi Pazar, Pryboj, Prepolje, and we have the worst infrastructure almost in this country. I appeal to you about the amendment I filed, and I'll talk about it when it comes to the subject of the amendment. I want to point out, he's a member of the government, of these problems and difficulties we face in Pazar, without transit, with children going on four shifts to school and with all the problems we face, and with the situation that has arisen because of uncontrolled imports and the destruction of our textile and shoe industry. I have to realize something's been fixed lately. The containers started to open. This still has no significant impact on our products of more significant protection, that is, our economy and the protection of the number of employees not only in Novi Pazar, but throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve the overall standard of our citizens. In that sense, I would like to make a request to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to pay attention to all the problems I have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10238	The word has a finance minister, Mr Dinkic, and then we'll have a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10239	A brief answer to you, Mr. MP. When we talk about the transfer funds for Sjenica, Tutin, Pryboj and Novi Pazar for next year, they are planned in a larger amount for all four municipalities. As for Sjenica, a growth of 23.5% is planned, it is a significant growth, because it is the most underdeveloped municipality of these that we are referring to; Tutin 20% growth; Aft 13.3%, and Novi Pazar 9%. In other words, you are wrong, see how much Jagodina has grown, such as Užice, so you will see that Novi Pazar has more growth than these two cities in central Serbia. There's another fact I'd like to draw attention to. The finance ministry has no jurisdiction over the Republic of Serbia Development Fund. It's the Department of Industry's jurisdiction. However, through a member of the board of directors, who is in contact with the finance ministry, we have learned that there has never been a loan from the Sandzak Development Fund for companies in Sandzak this year. You mentioned Tutin, Dallas, a company that is one of the better in Serbia, has received one big loan to rebuild the plant that burned down in the fire. Also, a large number of loans, never a higher percentage, went to the companies in Sandzak, and I ask you, in fact, that we speak in fact when we speak from this pay phone. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia really takes care of all the regions evenly, and if Sandzak was neglected earlier, it certainly is not with this new government now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10240	You'll get a word after your break, you'll be entitled to a replica. I'm setting a break until 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Please at first determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. Thank you. MP Bajram Omeragic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10242	I am sorry that Minister Dinkic is not here, since he said that, speaking of the development of our region, I have provided a lot of incorrect information. That's why I'm sorry he's not here. We discussed the subject at the beginning of this calendar year and I asked him to listen to me, since this is a debate in principle and I said that I would not talk about my amendment, but when the time came. I was talking about this underdevelopment, and I brought some data to prove it. Since he said what he said, I will now tell him: in January I told him to bring accurate data and tell him how many per capita in the municipalities of our region there are phones, how many square meters of asphalt per capita, how many square meters of school space there are, to tell me how many other municipalities are building in Serbia without the help of the Republic of the high school building, how many municipalities in Serbia are building a transit around their city without dinars from the Republic, how many meters in our region, by the head of the population, a water network. You know well that many times, not only at the beginning of the year, but many times I talked about it, and the minister never prepared those data, saying that these municipalities are truly developed and have such a position. I said that the municipality of Novi Pazar for this debate, two weeks ago, when representatives of the municipalities here discussed the transfer of these funds, did not get a call. If he went to the service to check if it was confirmed that we got the call, that's justified. But if he couldn't listen to this answer, that's not right. He responded to what I didn't say, I was just saying that there are few cities in Serbia where children go on three shifts to school because there is no school programme available. There are few cities in Serbia whose million figures are being removed from the accounts because some executive judgments return land, which was taken away 30, 40, and 50 years ago, and factories are being sold, companies sold, and local self-government budgets are getting nothing. (President: Time. ) I told the minister that the court in Novi Pazar has 20 other convictions that will be executed and that millions of figures will be removed from our budget without the government having an answer to that. Last year we managed to hold out. That's why I'm warning the minister, and I told him, since he's a member of the government, to bring the problem to the government. I haven't said anything that doesn't stand, and I've been waiting for his replica of my exhibit and he's got these cities in Serbia where children go on three shifts...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10243	Four and a half minutes, Mr. Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10244	... to tell me how much that counterguarantee got in Sandzak for credits.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10245	Mr. Omeragic, four and a half minutes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10246	I thank you and ask that when Mr. Secretary arrives, you give me your word again, because it will be that I said something again without him hearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10247	Mr. Omeragic, thank you. I won't be able to give you my word when the minister arrives, because we have to work on the Rules of Procedure, and I don't expect the Ministry of Finance to provide information from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Capital Investments. It's a matter of asphalt and school. We work exclusively on the Rules of Procedure. When I have a basis, I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10248	Your Honor, I didn't ask for this answer from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10249	That's why I'm not giving it to you. I don't know those answers and I don't want to. I'm just saying, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can give the Minister in charge, for the question he's been asked, to give my word. For all other issues, if you insist on being a parliamentary issue, it is notable in a stenogram, the president of the assembly is forwarded to the competent ministry, and that ministry is obliged to give an answer. I just referred you to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10250	Your Honor, Mr. President, you have not attended the debate between me and Mr. Dinkic, and you have not known how it went. Now you're giving an answer for which you're not in charge. You're not the Speaker of the government, you're not the government. The moment you are authorized by the Minister, you are authorized to give answers on behalf of the Government...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10251	Mr. Omeragic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10252	I'd like to ask you not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10253	Be nice. I'm sorry, but we don't run the controversy. Mr. Omeragic, I have informed you of the possibility of the President, according to the Rules of Procedure, and I asked if you were addressing the Rules of Procedure, so I gave you my word. Well, since this isn't according to the Rules of Procedure, we're not gonna take it any further, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10254	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10255	I don't just know what to finish. Mr. Omeragic, I've played you a replica two minutes longer, I've offered you an explanation by the Rules of Procedure, because it's the responsibility of the President of the Parliament. In line with that explanation, I have instructed you how answers to questions are possible. That's all in the context of my explanations. I don't represent anyone, and I don't give my answers to the MPs. I only give three grounds, because that's what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do. One thing is when you're looking for the Rules of Procedure, which you haven't done, the other is when participants are reported in the discussion and the third is when they have the right to reply. Be kind, you spoke on all three grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10256	You didn't understand. I only challenged that I didn't speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10257	The Rules of Procedure are the same for everyone. Or you're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10258	You didn't let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10259	Finish what? You spoke for five minutes, based on three minutes. Mr. Omeragic, be kind, the same rules must apply. I wasn't there, and I don't want to give any answers, I just referred to how the answers could be obtained. As we have said, the MP Radojko Obradović, and let the MP Milan Stevović be prepared, and then the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10260	I'm sorry the finance minister isn't here. I don't know if anyone's gonna tell him everything we're saying and all those questions that stayed open. In yesterday's presentation, as a representative of the Finance Committee, I made my point on this law. I made one analysis, and all those issues that were raised on the Finance Committee remain open. We've heard the Minister of Finance's explanation several times. Of course, the independence of local self-government units must be taken into account. But the finance ministry must make every effort to strengthen the control of budget spending. We didn't get any information on employment control, the number of employees... (President: I'm sorry, Mr. Radovic, you don't sound well, set up a little microphone, something's wrong with the technique. I ask the messengers to listen carefully to the speaker. ) We have not received data on whether employment control has been carried out, or whether the number of employees in local self-government units is higher than it was in the previous period, and if so, for how long. We need to get information on the borrowing of local self-government units. There have been various loans, various projects that may have been completed, perhaps not, and it would be very important to get information about it. There is no donation data, no single donation register, and all of this together affects the amount of funds received by local self-government. As one of the explanations for this distribution of funds, we were informed that certain local self-governments had a large percentage of the collection, e.g. Chaetin. Whether the result of such effective collection is good work of the local self-government unit, effective work of inspection services, or something else. If the cause of a good charge is an effective local self-government, then it must in no way be punished by reducing its transfer funds. On the contrary, any effective local self-government must be rewarded for its work. Therefore, the principle of efficiency must be taken into account. I would point out once again that the total growth of the transfer funds is only about 5%, while the total growth of local self-government funds is about 8.7%, significantly less than the growth of the budget and significantly less than the inflation this year. Here we have concluded that much better criteria are needed than these. We have come to the conclusion that the funds have not been allocated rationally and that during the period ahead we have to look for better criteria that will allow for more efficient distribution. Of course, as of January 1st, a new tax form awaits us, and we still cannot be sure what efficiency and realisation of public revenues will be during that period, but the way that one twelve funds is transferred linearly every month, I am not sure that it allows for the effective financing of local self-government. We know that the needs of months are different and we know that the costs are not the same from month to month, so a 12 will certainly not help the local self-government function properly. As a MP, I am interested in how the distribution has occurred individually. We had a criterion to finance small and underdeveloped local self-government, but by which criteria Mali Zvornik developed a local self-government unit, if this year there is 5.9% of growth. Have the Frogs developed a local self-government unit with 4% growth compared to income last year? Black grass 9%, Mininica damaged by an earthquake, we are not yet able to help all those people who are ninety and some who have lost a roof over their heads get what the state then promised them, and Minica has only 9% of the growth in income compared to 2004. Dimitrovgrad 9%. Anyone who's ever been to Dimitrovgrad knows that Dimitrovgrad is anything but an undeveloped unit of local self-government. I would point out just one more, and this is Kurzumlija, one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, and according to growth, income is classified in the order of developed municipalities. On the other hand, Loznica, Plandište, Novi Becej, Svrljig, Žitorajja, Zaguvica, Baki Petrovac were undeveloped. I would like to get the exact criteria that will help us by March 31st, as the speaker minister said, to find much better criteria to implement the proper allocation of budgets. I don't think there's any reason for us to react before March 31st. Let's just say, I have a proposal to increase the participation of municipalities in the profit fund. If from 40% of the municipality's participation in the fund to 50%, then the transfer funds would be reduced to seven and a half billion. That wouldn't damage any of the municipalities, and the amount of transfer funds would only be about six and a half billion. Then it is a true story of fiscal decentralisation, then it is a real reduction in the involvement of the central government and the creation of opportunities for local self-government to be financed in a much better way than so far. These six and a half billion that would remain in the transfer funds would help balance everything needed to compensate for all the revenues of those units of local self-government that cannot be financed adequately. I would also suggest that three categories be defined. Now that the range is 0-46, I suggest that this range be 5-20%, and that municipalities and cities are categorized into three categories, by revenue, by the number of employees, by territory, and then the growth would be 5-10, 10-15, 15-20%. All of this would contribute to a much more regular allocation, all of which would remove any suspicion of affecting the independence of local self-government units and all of this would significantly help if local self-government units had secured and secure funding in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10261	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Stevović, and let the MP Slavoljub Matic be prepared. Is Mr. Stevovic here? No, I don't. ) Here you are, as an authorised representative, MP Jovan Todorovic. He didn't use his time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no surprise that exactly two proposed laws on amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and on transferable resources are causing the interest of all MPs. It is understood that, for local self-governments, perhaps the most important law after the budget, because it is under these laws that local self-governments will formulate their budgets to adopt by the end of the year, so that they can meet both trust and their original powers. Many times during my current term, I have pointed out the need to seriously access the criteria for determining the amount of transfer funds that we assign to certain municipalities. And this time, due to the shortness of time, there has been no fundamental change in the Law on Local Self-Government, at least in that section regarding the allocation criteria for the Republic budget. Also today, many have also pointed to the fact that there have been changes to other legislation, especially those relating to the collection of value added tax, which has no original origin and it is difficult to determine from which territory local self-government is a collected value added tax. The distribution of 13 billion and 800 million according to the criteria that were essentially in the Law on Local Self-Government has therefore been approached. That is exactly where MPs differ, in the sense that some dispute the amount of funds in certain municipalities, that others approve precisely because there are no clear and precise criteria. Take, for example. the criteria set out in Article 99, so you will see that it has been difficult for the Proposer to apply them without some objective indicators coming from the field, with little help from a conference of cities that was held two weeks ago, where the figures in this proposal were harmonised. See section 1. of Article 99 – the number of inhabitants of individual municipalities. I remind you that two years ago, a list of citizens was made and that, as a rule, 90% of municipalities did not make that list exactly and completely. So you have such absurdities that individual municipalities, like the Municipality of Loznica, have 76,000 voters, with only 86,000 inhabitants. The reasons for the failed census are in many facts, and one of the main reasons is the first plan, and this is the censuser's obligation to list the property of those citizens who are full-aged and who have households, and therefore many have avoided the list. Today, when you are discussing the criteria and the number of residents in the territory of a municipality, you do not have accurate data and simply copy data from previous years and you cannot take it as one criterion for the distribution of funds. When you take the criteria of the number of departments and the number of elementary and secondary schools, you see nothing but the number of primary and secondary schools, nor the condition in those secondary schools, the condition in which the teaching facilities take place, whether they take place in two or three shifts, how many students are in one class, whether those primary or secondary schools have gyms for physical or not. As a rule, these criteria are not represented at all when allocations are made, but simply the number of schools is taken. When you take the number of kindergartens, then you irrigate the situation in certain environments precisely on the number of kindergartens that are in operation at the moment, not starting from the real need to how many kindergartens should actually be or how many elementary and secondary schools should be, or departments in those primary and secondary schools. The degree of development, no one lives here in this assembly, and I think the Ministry of Local Self-Government doesn't know how to answer what is the degree and what is measured in local self-government. Therefore, no account is taken of the number of employees in the municipality, not even the number of unemployed, which is also important, the number of pensioners in the area of one municipality and especially what is important for many municipalities, the number of refugees in the area of many municipalities, and there are refugees from both Kosovo and Metohija and the former republics, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. I am sure that there are municipalities where the number of refugees exceeds 10% of the total population, and this is not taken anywhere as a criterion for the distribution of these funds. It's just that in the next month or two days, in co-operation with the Ministry of Local Self-Government, there is a complete change in this law, so that we can discuss objective criteria in the future, how much of a municipality needs to belong to transfer funds. I was talking about the number of employees, which there are no data in our reports, and I cannot accept Mr Dinkic as finance minister, but I simply point to the situation that we do not have that information and we do not take that data seriously. Please, when the law says 40% of the tax on profit collected belongs to local self-government, and that to all local self-government, it looks fair and fine at first sight. When you enter the account, not in mathematics, but in the calculation, then you realize that the municipalities that have an average of seven or eight thousand dinars can take the entire income tax, and then they will not come into the situation to deal with Apatino, Belgrade, Novi Sad, with some other larger developed environments where the average earnings are 20,000 dinars. So, by tracking the story of my colleague Obradovic and I would advocate changing this criterion, but not by increasing from 40% to 50%, but by making a selective approach, that the minimum participation of municipalities in the profit tax is 40%, and that it is maximumly determined in relation to the average earnings paid in the municipality's territory. In the case of a passwordd municipality, I can tell you this, in 2005, we in 2005, with all these growth factors of 15.1%, will collect around 170 million earnings based on profit tax, but in Loznica there is a profit of 7,300 dinars on average, and in Serbia there are 14,000 dinars on average. So, if it were 80%, then the average of Serbia would barely arrive again and only have about 300 million income dinars based on profit tax. This is the point. It is not worth giving the same percentages without these same percentages producing injustices and irregularities in the distribution of funds for certain municipalities. My colleague Obradović mentioned Mali Zvornik, and since it is part of the Mačvanski district from which I come, I really want to say that there is either an accounting error or not some elements taken into account, because only 2% of the growth in funds belonging to local self-government, i.e. Mali Zvornik, compared to 2004. To this extent, fellow MPs, the conclusion of the Finance Committee is that by 31 March, at the latest, these criteria are reflected in irregularities in the distribution of these funds, as proposed in the law, and that the funds discussed by Mr Dinkic, so 200 million dinars as spare funds, are intervened from those local self-governments and those municipalities where there is clearly disagreement with the real needs and real state in these municipalities and what belongs to them under this law. It's just that we can't go deaf about a small environment. I said to Mali Zvornik, I could also freely mention to Meroshin, Love, Koceljev, many other small municipalities that are this time at the stroke of law enforcement which is essentially ad hoc only applied for this time to adapt to this situation, because we simply do not know what the effects of collecting value added tax will be, nor what the effects of other so-called. the original income of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10263	Mr. Todorovic, do you want to use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10264	Yeah. I also point to a few more facts. It's good when citizens are relieved and the economy of certain obligations, but, by chance, I mean that's an accident, most of the obligations where we relieve are the original incomes of local self-government. Take your own labour tax, and we welcome the proposal to cut the tax from 14% to 10% on your own. Please, self-activities, this is the income of local self-government, and based on this local self-government, instead of 14% will collect 10% of the income. That's the problem that's going on and these small funds are reducing in local budgets. Secondly, I think the minister here was a bit stingy when he defined the 13,800,000 figure as transfer funds for all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If you look at the reasoning of the law on the distribution of transfer funds, you'll see a few data that I want to point out. When you add the sales tax out of bounds, then the income tax in all those categories that we had during 2004, and it changed all that more times than we had 5%, then 30% to July 1st, 3.5% to the fund of earnings, to the transfer funds of 11 billion, then there was a figure of 38,480,000,000 as planned funds in 2004. Due to some better growth, i.e. the collection of these revenues, there will be 40,500,000 revenue and this was the reason for the ministry to suggest that instead of increasing public spending, relatively speaking and nominally, in the republican budget instead of increasing these funds, there was a reduced increase here, and by 6.2% compared to what was estimated to be achieved in 2004. And now, what do I point to? If inflation for 2005 is 10%, if the real growth of the social product is 4.5%, then the least nominal growth of these funds would have to be 15.1%. We had a growth of only 6.2%, which will mean that in the coming year, based on this basis, including income taxes and local self-government transfer funds, in fact, in the real statement they get less funds than in 2004. And that's true. That's true. I sincerely hope that there will be an assumption that privatisation processes will go a little more rapidly and that we will have this surplus income based on privatisation and the need to rebalance the budget during 2005, so that we can channel that part of the privatisation funds to one extent and to local self-government. Especially when we talk about privatisation, we have the fact that privatisation is taking place unevenly when it comes to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The most privatisation is in the more developed environments, such as Novi Sad, Apatin, Belgrade, etc., and at least privatisation, which is economic logic, is precisely in the least developed environments. So, what does that have to do with local self-government? You have an economy that stands, you have a large number of unemployed workers waiting for privatisation, or they have a practical job, and you have a lack of income in local self-government budgets based on 5% belonging to privatisation to local self-government. And then, of course, you have a problem that local self-governments cannot fulfill their functions as foreseen by the Law on Local Self-Government. And, one more thing - the rationalization of local self-government is the task of every serious authority of whoever it is made up of. One-third, on average, of the budgets of local self-government wastes on the basis of income from local self-government employees, i.e. municipal administrations. One-third, please. Only two-thirds and on the basis of income from original activities, and the original revenues of congregations and transfer funds may be used for other purposes, except for employee earnings. And now, somebody's gonna think - well, what are we gonna do? Well, we simply have to establish in the future Law on Local Self-Government the obligation for local self-government to reduce the number of employees in municipal administrations by at least 10%, as will be done by the government in the ministries and authorities of the state administration. But that measure must be accompanied by appropriate social, economic and other measures, because we can't just throw these people out on the street because someone took them. And the truth is that from the arrival of DOS to power in October 2000, until, say, a year ago, the largest number of newly employed people in the municipal administrations were admitted on that basis. Some at a certain time, some indefinitely, and no matter how much they cost their budgets, those to the extent that they cost their budget to reduce the achievement of the basic original functions of local self-government and, of course, that citizens in the area of these municipalities cannot meet the most important needs and interests in all areas. Not to mention that there are no development projects, that there is no such case of infrastructure building, plumbing, sewerage, that rarely which the municipality has a fund for rural development, or, say, a guarantee fund that would encourage the development of small enterprises and the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises, but, as a rule, it happens to us that, in the absence of all municipalities' income, they resort to one, I would say to a destructive policy, by increasing the prices of city building land, the fees for using city building land and all other taxis, which are the original revenues of local self-government, in order to at least do something in those terms. And finally, when one day starts to seriously change the Law on Local Self-Government, then it must come from real needs to execute and proper decentralisation of authorities, and that some functions and then the funds are transferred to local self-government and thus strengthen the interest of local self-government, first – to collect income, second – to satisfy the widest interest of citizens living in the area. But previously, all economic criteria must be leveled, especially those relating to profit and tax on earnings, because it is really out of mind to think that it is the same to receive 7,000 dinars in Loznica and 20,000 in Belgrade, with participation in both Belgrade and Loznica's profit tax being 40%. It's simply not sustainable, because when you translate an absolute amount, which would be important, by one employee or by one resident in the municipality, then you'll only see how many differences there are. And, the more Belgrade develops, the less the environment gets, and the better it is for the country to develop, than for the distribution of funds to those below averages to receive average funds on this basis, and everything else to be the result of the work and activities of local self-government, the skills of management and, of course, the willingness of citizens to participate in all of this in a way that provides and contributes and initiates economic capacities, etc. So at this point, I don't think we have a more rational solution than to pass this law, but that both the Ministry and the Finance and the Local Self-Government must, but they simply must, by 31 March, offer comprehensive laws on this subject, which we would talk about and be rappers for 2005 and for the following years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10265	Thank you. Is Mr. Stevovic here now? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Slavoljub Matic, and let the MP Rajko Baralić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10266	Ladies and gentlemen, every year when we discuss this law, or whatever it used to be called, about the participation of cities and municipalities in sales tax, we had very long and bile discussions about this little money, and I'll remind you that it's only 15.5% of the budget for this year. The budget planned for 2005, which when we add up all the local self-government budgets will be about 88.5 billion dinars. So when we talk about this transfer money, we usually experience heated controversy in parliament among MPs, because each of the MPs has a commitment to be responsible or at least visually responsible for their region or community from which they originate. Of course it's the subject of numerous political calculations. As a witness and a member of the Finance Committee, I will confirm to you that you have been here for years both in controversy and conflict and in calculations between local self-government representatives, i.e. MPs and representatives of the government. I was a witness when some of the neighborhoods were punished during 2001 until 2003 because they did not have a similar attitude in their capitals. One of these cities was Pogorjevac, who was regularly suspended at the time of Djelic's government at the finance ministry, in several ways. But let me not join those who are similar to my beginnings in these discussions, but rather try to refer to the Law of Local Self-Government itself, which we are changing, and to this scope which will be the subject of the debate under the transfer of local self-government. So, we are changing the Law on Local Self-Government because it is necessary to introduce certain members of the Law on Local Self-Government in the context of the change in the tax system and the introduction of VAT, by being ready and joining all those who believe that the current Law on Local Self-Government brings a number of disagreements and disagreements. We are witnessing that after the last elections we have a very tense situation in many municipalities and the inability to establish a local government. That is the problem of Serbia, which is at this stage of social relations development, Serbia that lacks sufficient tolerance and is not able to add a political scene that does not have the opportunity to understand the importance of local elections and local self-government, where it is simply unnecessary to have divisions between citizens in a narrow political way. I hope that after the change of the Constitution we will also have a new law on local self-government, which will be adapted to this current political moment. As far as funding is concerned, we are planning for next year that local self-government budgets will be around 88.5 billion, 27.8% of which will be original municipal revenues, and 56.5% of the tax paid, and the transfers we're talking about tonight are 15.6%. It seems to me that these transfers we're talking about have required a longer debate between the MPs. It is good that the conclusion of the Finance Committee, which is accepted by the minister, is that the conclusion is that at the end of March we will have redefined relations in this area, because no one can rightly predict that tax revenues will be collected during the first months of application of the value added tax. It's a good resonation accepted by the minister, and it seems to me that at that moment, when we get new tax experience on extra value, we'll have enough reason to rebalance maybe these transfer funds as well. What you should also add is that there are several basic weaknesses in this existing system. First weakness... Okay. [[Applause]] I may be boring, but it seems to me that... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10267	You go ahead, Mr. Matice, you'll judge when you've had enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10268	I want you to know that maybe some more people are interested in what I'm talking about. So in the existing system we have three observed weaknesses. The first weakness is that this system does not allow predictability needed to bring local self-governments in time to their budgets. We have insufficient data, and now it's the end of the year, and local self-governments with insufficient data are planning their budgets for next year. I think this needs to be changed in a way that will have systemic undeniable points that will allow one serious planning over the year for next year. Another significant weakness is the lack of an effective mechanism for fiscal unification of funds. In fact, more than 50 municipalities are at the rate of 50% development of the Republic average, and you have municipalities that are eight times developed from undeveloped municipalities. This uneven development of municipalities must be brought into line with a serious approach. This law only solves the lack of equality of municipalities in an insufficient way, and so we will say solidarity over the necessaryness in our Republic. The third major weakness of the system for funding local self-government is an insufficient path to the original revenues in the structure of the total income of local self-government. In fact, local self-governments should strive to work on their original incomes that will be one of the factors of stability, even when it comes to these shortcomings that I have mentioned for a moment. As for stimulating responsible local self-government, I don't think there's anything in this proposal either, and it's worth working on in the future. In fact, the stimulation of those self-governments that work to a sufficient extent to collect original revenues, which work to a sufficient extent to curb the gray economy, I think are not properly stimulated and the legislator certainly needs to pay attention in the coming period to enable successful self-governments fighting the gray economy to have the opportunity to support from the central authorities. If this is not available, you will have a local-level hypocrite who will not make an effort or have the motive to fight the gray economy in the right way, which basically means a more successful state, and in any case this means a more successful and local self-government. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10269	The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, president of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10270	Mr. Chairman, because of the importance of this law and the number of MPs who want to speak to the team, under Article 130. I ask the Rules of Procedure for the Assembly to decide to extend the work until this session is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10271	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. Who is in favour of supporting the proposal for an extension of work until the vote is over. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Establish the quorum before the vote. ) Quorum, it was 160. It's clear. Here you go. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You betrayed the opposition. That's not even Sloba taught you. Mr. Nikolic, we learned that together. For 105, it did not vote 18, a total of 123 MPs. We continue in the order of the reported, which means there was no decision. There was no decision. All clear. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until the adoption of the VAT Act, this item of the agenda was named – the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax and with great care listen to colleagues who are trying to offer for their local communities an argument that goes towards providing greater financial resources from the position of the budget, which is called – transfers to local self-government. That is understandable, but it is not possible when the Republic of Serbia's budget and this topic is not agreed at the beginning, at the bottom of the field as it is said. For this occasion, I want to point out the problem that the Luciani municipality has. She sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance that, primarily because of the need for the energy plant "Milan Blagojevic" in Luciani, which was injured during NATO aggression, it was able to get better, because the energy plant, apart from producing the technology pair for the "Milan Blagojevic" factory, has practically provided heating to residents of the town of Luciani and, unfortunately, the intervention is not respected. I simply ask that it be done if there is a rebalancing, because it is not the same when someone breaks your city, so ask the state to help you or when someone has a 100% substance and in the course of one year they can deploy their budget revenues without having to build something that has already been built. The next question concerns several municipalities. Some of the municipalities are from Moravia County, some are from Užičko. For the fourth time in a row, I am talking about the need for five municipalities, Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Luciani, Požega and Arilej, which together built the regional water system Rzav, the first phase of this system into which $135 million was invested, to get additional funding to complete the second phase of this system, a lasting waterfall. Unfortunately, what is more important in the composition of the republican government is the realization of this project further and further. Once again, I point out that some municipalities in Serbia have similar problems, but that nothing over the last 50 years has done to try to resolve this. This is about a strong, important project, which has been implemented to the extent that it can provide 1,200 liters of water per second, the best and healthiest drinking water in Serbia. If this does not happen, the temporary water catchment area in Ariel is no longer able to, without jeopardizing the biological minimum of the great Rzava, provide drinking water for the residents of these five municipalities, and it is 350,000 inhabitants. There was no good will in the previous government to start those works necessary to explore land, to do research, to ensure what is necessary, to start building a dam, which costs 70m dollars or euros, I think it's $70m. So it's a big investment, but if it doesn't start it'll never be over. Unfortunately, in the budgets of the local self-government of these five municipalities, there are virtually no funds that can be done more seriously in this area. It would therefore be important for MPs, the presidents of the municipalities in these areas, to do everything necessary to, as they say, be singled out and that, at least in 2006, the construction of a water supply system could be started, and the permanent dams on the Švrtkovevo profile. Because if we don't, 130 million dollars of investment will virtually incapacitate further exploitation and security of these citizens with clean drinking water. The next question I also want to say about here is a request that several MPs from Cacca have made as an amendment to this law. The Municipality of Cačak is seeking an additional 70m for the completion of primary school, kindergarten and other investments in the city. When we talk about the details, I'll make a statement about the amendment. I would like to say that it would be important to provide in the field of childcare and education as much resources as necessary for local self-government to normally serve needs, especially young people, the youngest, because I remind you that in the Municipality of Čačak in 13 kindergartens in two shifts, in mangers and in preschool groups, today organizes the stay of these children. True, they could have done something in eight years so it doesn't, but we don't have the right not to support such initiatives, and with that, I'll vote for that amendment, if it's lucky to convince my colleagues, because I think it's a valuable aid to the little ones above all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10273	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Zivkovic, and let MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10274	Dear Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed laws amending the Law on Local Self-Government and the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005 are certainly of paramount importance to ensure the normal functioning of local self-government bodies. Special attention has been given to fellow MPs by the law on the distribution of transfer funds and by the participation of municipalities, cities and cities in the distribution of income tax funds, which is also expected in view of the concern that respected colleagues express towards the functioning of local self-government in the environments where they come from. So it is not surprising that many of the amendments tabled not only by opposition members but also by members of the congregation's majority. Also, MPs coming from developed and undeveloped municipalities, simply from across Serbia, had their eyes on how these funds should be distributed. At the same time, however, the fact that most MPs have tabled amendments from different parliamentary clubs tells us that they simply question the criteria prescribed by the Law on Local Self-Government and I suppose they express what the esteemed fellow debaters have already stated that certain criteria should be complemented. But what is crucial in the whole thing, the MPs, among whom I belong, did not have any insight into how these quantitative criteria affected the distribution of transfer funds, and I think that's exactly what the key problem is and that's why we have such a big debate on this matter. If all MPs had received a document from MPs who were members of the Committee on Finance, which clearly shows what is and what is the index of the increase in funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the income tax is allocated to local self-governments, we would have had a better discussion, which could have converted the adoption of quality conclusions and what has been announced that the ministry, or the Government, prescribed another number of criteria, and those criteria accurately quantified and, of course, notified the MPs. So we didn't have all of this, and there's no wonder about all these issues, which leads to doubt and raises the criteria and the system by which the distribution was carried out. But if we are not surprised that the MPs, expressing doubts about this system of distribution, have asked for amendments to increase funds for their municipalities, i.e. local self-government in the environments where they come from, I must admit that the ministry's position, which was very easy for 200 million Belgrade to take away and give to another city – Kragujevac. Of course I don't mind giving Kragujevac more, because according to the percentages we have as information, from the analysis we did, Kragujevac had to be allocated more funds, but more funds had to be allocated to Belgrade, apparently, by some calculations. However, it is so easy to take 200 million to Belgrade and assign 200 million to Kragujevac that the government, or the ministry, recognises in a certain way that there is no system or, if there is, that it is easy to deny it. If the distribution is based on Article 99. The law on local self-government, where criteria are defined, and then the coefficients that arise from these criteria, obviously that's not how it should be done, because obviously the whole system is broken. Also, as a form of appearance, I noticed that a number of distinguished fellow MPs, in an explanation of where funds should be provided for additional financing of their municipalities, is asking to be done by taking them down to Belgrade. I think it's a very bad message to the public, first of all, for the citizens of Belgrade. I come from the interior, from Leskovec, and I also suggested that Leskovac get 40 million dinars more than is foreseen by this law, because I believe Leskovac is damaged and I will explain why. It is not right that, practically, without any criteria, it is required to take part of the funds to Belgrade and to justify that local self-government in environments where we live will function more easily. Of course, all local self-governments would work easier if they had more money, but obviously it's hard to make it happen. What's crucial is that we have sound criteria. I now return to the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 99, that is, Article 9 of this Law, which is a proposal to amend the Law on Local Self-Government, so this Article of 99, which contains criteria, is problematic. According to the old article 99. The Law on Local Self-Government, which we want to change, are the same criteria that are foreseen by Article 5 of the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, except that these criteria are counted in a different way. The question is does this mean that the influential coefficients, on which the funds given to municipalities and cities are being calculated, have changed? We don't have any insight into that. Here MPs are put in one position to vote on things that define distribution, but basically we don't know how and by what coefficients the allocations will be. We only have criteria in law. So how is that supposed to work? I think it's an assignment for the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps, most importantly, it should improve communication with parliamentary clubs and explain in more detail how these coefficients occurred. So, the proposed law says nicely: 1st number of residents, 2nd number of departments and number of elementary and secondary schools, 3rd number of children covered by social care for children and the number of social care facilities for children, 4th status of the environment, 5th degree of development and 6th grade of the territory of the local self-government unit. It is very serious criteria that must be very well thought out to translate into weight factors. The old '99s figured it out a little differently. In the first place is the size of the territory of the unit of local self-government, and let's say the degree of development is in the last place. Besides the fact that it is very important that, as MPs, when we adopt the law, we know how the criteria have been converted into coefficients, it is very important to hear in the debate what could be the additional criteria. That is why I asked 40 million additional funds for Leskovac, and I am deeply convinced that Leskovac gets less than he deserves, if we want to provide this means with the principle of solidarity and the principle of justice, and I think that is the basic idea, although I think we also need to think about providing and developing. After all, it is also a key thing that we must provide and small environments that are currently lagging behind. But we must also not distribute our policies, budgets and other ways, through economic instruments to prevent the development of those environments that are more advanced, which have stronger resources and which, conditionally speaking, should represent locomotives of our country's development. That's why I suggested introducing another criterion, which is the number of settlements. I think by introducing criteria -- the number of settlements, the principle of distribution will be fairer and more solid, but at the same time, given that some of our spaces remain unoccupied, in small villages the number of people is reduced, then they disappear from the map of Serbia. Since our resources, of course, we all know that, are distributed across the entire surface of our country, of course, the problem is not only of an economic nature, but also of a strategic nature, I think we need to think about it. I believe that this criterion must necessarily be included as one of the criteria on which we will determine these funds. I may have hurried a little with the others by proposing this criterion, but I thought it made a lot of sense, since today we're discussing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is precisely what these criteria contain. I repeat, and in the part of the debate, when we talk about amendments, I will again ask Leskovac for an additional 40 million dinars, because I think that will satisfy the principle of justice. Leskovac is in a very important strategic place, has important resources that, unfortunately, have not been used. I'll take this opportunity to say one more thing. I mean, although this is not exactly a strict topic of this debate and this law, one good analysis must be made whether our municipalities in Serbia are well-dimensional. There are municipalities, unfortunately, and the municipality of Leskovac is one of those, which are too bulky and therefore dysfunctional. The municipality of Leskovac was formed by association of four municipalities: the municipality of Leskovac, which was developed 30 years ago, and small undeveloped municipalities such as Brestovac, Grdelica and Vučje. Instead of having, as a final result, a developed or slightly more developed municipality of Leskovac, with all these united municipalities, we had the collapse of all these municipalities together. So, I think it is necessary for the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Government to make one such analysis for all municipalities in Serbia, to assess how they are dimensioned and, where there are obvious problems of transmutation and dysfunction of certain municipalities, they are divided in another way. There's one more thing I have to say, it's very important, and I have the impression that I should be corrected by my colleagues from the Ministry and the Government, that the ministries may not often control how budgets are spent in municipalities. I'd like to make an appeal if we had better control. Then in this way, as the National Assembly and then as Government, we will better protect the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10275	DS Boris Tadic has three minutes left. The People's Messenger Dusan Proroković has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10276	Dear People's MPs, I will vote for this law for only two reasons. The first reason is that there is a deadline by 15 December, until the authorities of local self-government, i.e. the municipalities have to present to them what the transfer of funds is, in order to further design the consumption of these funds, in order to set out budget criteria for certain projects. The second reason is that Mr Dinkic promised to rebalance these funds by 31 March. My oral request to the Ministry of Finance would be to Jovandan. However, municipalities plan to spend these funds. The municipalities are managed by some projects and will not be left with municipalities for much time if we discuss the rebalancing of the transfer of funds on March 31st. Why am I dealing with just these two things? To vote in favour of the law, because this is the most innovative law that has come from the Ministry of Finance to the National Assembly, we do not see from the bill any criteria by which the funds have been determined by individual municipalities. So we have a growth in these funds of 2:30%. What is the criterion for raising the budget by about two and a half percent according to my budgets, according to the Ministerial budgets about 5%, but still much less than inflation in the previous year, and some other municipalities are increasing by 26%. Another thing, how can Kragujevac be allotted to 200 million dinars all of a sudden? I have nothing against Kragujevac, I think his budget should be much bigger, but how it suddenly goes down to Belgrade and gives to Kragujevac. This can be done in dozens of other examples, taken from Belgrade and assigned to other places. There is a social problem in Kragujevac. There's a problem with insufficient development, there's a problem with the upcoming collection of income taxes, but what about small municipalities? Kragujevac, how much more or so in a much better position than a large number of small municipalities where nothing works. We will have one big problem in the future if this practice and policy continues, which is the quasi-meterisation of Serbia. The whole of Serbia will be concentrated in four cities, possibly two or three more, Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. I ask the question – do we need other, small municipalities, or not? Should they also be subsidized, more resources should be determined, in order to develop infrastructure there, so that the people stay there or should not. I do not understand why this list of criteria remains a list of the previous Djelic minister's criteria, with which no one from the current ruling majority was satisfied. We also asked previous ones in 2002 to fit some other criteria, such as the number of refugees and internally displaced persons by certain municipalities in Serbia. For their socialization, the resolution of their housing status requires such resources. There is damage to Kragujevac, Kruševac, all municipalities that rely on Republika Srpska, or BiH, have been damaged. Budgetary funding provided for by the government of the Republic of Serbia, allocated to the Refugee Commissioner, is not enough. The SO will have to deal with this problem and should give them more resources than those envisaged. A criterion such as the geostrategic position of certain municipalities should be established. What about the municipality of Kursumli? Today we practically have an empty Merdare. By 10km from Merdar, Pristina has already spread. Is it our interest that Merdare remains empty, that Pristina continues to expand, so that it can reach Serbia's border or even cross the administrative border between Kosovo and Serbia. We're absolutely not interested. Therefore, more resources should be given to Kursumli and Bujanovac and Presheb and Medvedji. It should be given, what we talked about with the minister at the parliamentary club, much greater resources to all municipalities bordering Republika Srpska. We have one process, however poor Serbia is, year by year increases its gross social product, increases the number of employees, increases the labour price in Serbia. In BiH, we have a completely reverse process, i.e. in one of its entities, Republika Srpska. We have a drop in labour prices, we have a huge increase in unemployment, there is a problem with the transition of labour from Herzegovina to Serbia, taking jobs for our population. We also create a new foreign trade deficit because they spend their profits not in Serbia but in BiH. We can choose between two models. Many countries have had such a problem, either to subsidize our municipalities, or to predict from our budget certain funds that we will allocate to Bijeljina, Visegrad, Zvornik, Bratunac and other places, in order to subsidise the employment of that population there in Republika Srpska, not to take jobs for our population. These are all things that need to be discussed. I won't be long. I fully agree with the previous speaker, Professor. I'm nervous. There is also a criterion for the number of settlements. There must be a strategy to redefine local self-government. The disparities that occur between different municipalities are different, we have municipalities with 200 and more thousands of inhabitants, we have most of the municipalities that have 10-15 thousand inhabitants. The bill shows that Irig municipality uses 70% of the transfer funds as its budget. I have nothing against Irig, but the question is, whether a municipality that has only 20 or 30% of the original income should be a municipality. I hope that in the next period and here, between the parliamentary clubs and by the government of the Republic of Serbia, we will have adequate proposals and at all have one strategy for further development of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10277	I thank the People's MP, Prophetic. I hope he doesn't mind me, but Serbia's border is to General Jankovic, not to Merdar. This is the border with UNMIK, not with Kosovo. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Alimpic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10278	Ladies and gentlemen, as an MP for the opposition, I could say that I look forward to such bad legal proposals by the Serbian government, but on the other hand, as an SRS MP, who cares deeply about the better life of all Serbian citizens, I must say that I cannot look forward to such bad bill proposals. It hasn't been a long time since the famous VAT, and here it is today at work. We talked that after that law, citizens in Serbia would live worse. Here's evidence through these two laws that we're discussing today that this is really going to be the case. Few funds for local self-government, poor distribution and these few funds, or distributions without any criteria. That is obviously the general opinion of both the government and the opposition MPs. Even the minister said in his statement that transfers are less nominal. I'd say, realistically, even less. Then what the minister says, he advises local self-government to be the best, since there is not enough money to start with reducing the administration, which means firing workers. If it's from the minister, it's a lot. Since the layoff of workers in the last four years and of this number of unemployed, it is still lacking that the laws create conditions for both state administration employees and local self-government to hope to quit every day, then I really don't know what the ultimate goal of this government is and what the intentions of both the Government and this minister are. How bad is the distribution of these transfer funds, the best talks, and the best evidence is these local-patriot amendments, which were neither I knew how many yesterday. They're all retired today. It's probably some kind of deal. I watched, I didn't add up all those figures, but it seems to me, if all those amendments were accepted, because everyone asked for money to be taken from Belgrade, to be assigned to local self-government in Serbia, Belgrade would probably be left without a single dinar. The point is, why we in the SRS have not submitted amendments, simply because the law provides that these funds that are written here are more than that, says the minister, there is no, and every city is equally important to us, every citizen in every city in Serbia and in every village of Serbia, and we really don't think that someone should be taken to give, but we think that everyone needs more. We all advocate the decentralisation of local self-government, we all swear it. Of course, that should be our goal, but not just a declaration. What does decentralisation mean if there's no funds? In this room, there are at least twenty presidents of the municipalities and they really weren't in their shoes with this small amount of money, because what they're going to do in their municipalities. Worse still, those funds that get local self-government nobody controls. I know from the stories of my fellow Serbian radicals, and they will talk about it anyway, the president of the municipalities after these elections, what state they found in the budget, what all the malversions were in budgets per municipality in Serbia, because all of them were looking for budgetary control, as long as time went by, no municipality came under budget control. The minister says, though not at the pay phone, this way in the conversation, the problem is the low salaries of budgetary inspectors, but I think it's the minister's problem. The small salaries of budgetary inspectors and the lack of access to the field of budgetary inspectors are the problem of the minister, not those inspectors. I haven't heard any comments from colleagues here who said what about municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, you're not going through this law to start slowly giving up the southern Serbian provinces, because these municipalities should also be allocated some means, not in a way, and the minister will say that this is meant for that Article 5, but why not also be treated as other municipalities, why is it not known exactly how much funds it is? It's really a fundamental question to answer here, how do you think you're developing local self-government, how do you think we're going into a decentralisation process, when the ministry and the government aren't ready to allocate certain funds to local self-government. I really think that the only conclusion is that the distribution of transfer funds is not good, I know that you're going to adopt this, but I also know that there will be a lot of problems in the field. You yourself know how many unresolved issues there are, how much the needs of local self-government are, and if this is how the state thinks about local self-governments and municipalities in Serbia, then it will hardly be developed municipalities in Serbia. So I think it would be good for the minister to at least listen to what we're saying, so maybe in some way help through some other means, if that's possible, since these are as big as they are. I must say, therefore, one comment on a member of the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. an amendment to that law, and I have made an amendment to that article. This Article 9 is proof of the supreme indemnity and the supreme ignorance, the lack of legal knowledge in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it provides for the Law on Local Self-Government to delete the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expension. At least a little seriousness in this law, at least so much if you didn't have the money to distribute it, then you could have made sure that the lawyer proposed this law to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10279	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I must really point out once again, first of all, dissatisfaction. We are talking about important laws regarding the functioning of local self-government, and throughout the day, the minister did not allow himself to commit at least one minute seriously to everything the MPs talk about, the bill. I also need to express the protest, so how does the government propose this law and how it is passed. It's never happened before to be brought to the budget, and that's what the DS resented, and that parallel to that goes to the funds that are meant for the functioning of local self-government. When we put it out, then it was important for you to end a political problem for you, because that's your coalition, let the budget go, and local self-government, we'll talk about them slowly. Also, this is the second year that the finance minister does not consult with cities and municipalities. The second year and the budget that we bring and the funds that are related to the functioning of local self-government, and just now the minister told us about how he had consultations in this room with local self-government representatives. I don't see where the need for representatives of the ruling group, if satisfied with the funds, to submit almost 40 or 50 amendments, as this indicates that the deal was not there. The minister also told us in the opening statement that the discussion and the setting of criteria were lagging behind because there were local elections in September, it is indeed unacceptable, but what you will be doing is such a minister. The DS points out that in 2005, local self-government budgets will not be developmental. Why? According to this projection, Kragujevac will have a budget that will be both nominally and realistically smaller than the 2003 budget. I'll tell you what that looks like in numbers. In 2003, Kragujevac's budget was two billion and 47 million dinars or then calculated somewhere nearly 35m euros. In 2005 and with the funds that we later received, Kragujevac will not exceed the number of billions and 800 or 900 million, which is far less than we had two years ago. I can be pleased with the fact that the Kragujevac later won 200 million dinars, but that principle is not good. The minister has established a principle that has a goal, which has been confirmed by amendments, that self-government, one by one, will try to kidnap, not make a clear and precise deal. The ministry has been acting completely ignorant for all this time, believing it should not participate in the process. If you make the projections very clear, you'll see that we're really right and that what we've just pointed out really stands as a fact. Kragujevac was also in March, remember, at that time we spoke, taken away, and that went down to 200 million dinars after the final projection. I am now asking if this is the monitoring Mr Dinkic was talking about, and what he has publicly informed not only me, but all my colleagues from Kragujevac, that it will return it through the budget reserves. When he was representing the budget of the DS parliamentary group, he was privileged that even to me and my colleagues, he claimed that funds were recovered from the budget reserves and I know very well that this is not true. They're telling us here that this setting is real, it's completely incorrect and I'm undermining it once again, I can be pleased that Kragujevac got another 200 million, but I want to point out that Kragujevac is not to be underestimated here. Don't forget, it's a city, it's a university center, it's a business center. He doesn't ask the Ministry for charity. We're looking for real principles. We're looking for normal functioning. Also, as a representative of a responsible political organisation, I believe that the minister was obliged... (President: I thank you, time. You'll let me. That he was obliged to negotiate with local self-government. But we'll also make a problem that some party representatives will go public with the information that they're banging their hands on the table, ordering the finance minister to solve the problem, he hides in a mouse hole and sends 200 million to Kragujevci. (The President – thank you very much. That principle is not good. The Democratic Party believes the law is humiliating for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10281	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10282	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government which are changed, according to Article 77, how the funds are provided and what resources the Republic gives to the Local Self-Government Unit, which are: defeat of the income of citizens, income from agriculture and forestry, income from self-employed activities, income from immovableity, income from renting mobile items, income from insurance of persons, other income in accordance with the Law and part of the income tax, property tax, inheritance tax, gift, tax on the transfer of absolute rights. According to the provision of Article 98(7), compensation for the use of goods of general interest, part – compensation for the use of mineral raw material, part of the compensation for the execution of materials and water streams, part of the fee for the use of forests, part of the fees for changing the purpose of agricultural land, compensation for the construction, maintenance and use of local roads. What is particularly interesting, and what I wanted to point out specifically, are requirements in the area of the environment, that is, part of the compensation for environmental pollution. Ladies and gentlemen, what's important is that a large part of the resources that are predicted, and which should be afforded by local self-government, has no control over the spending of these funds by local authorities. You have in the Republic of Serbia 7,000 tax collectors who are very careful to take taxes from citizens and charge on every basis. However, there are only 14 budgetary inspectors in the Republic of Serbia, which are actually a budgetary inspection that controls the spending of funds at local level. I must say that there are numerous abuses of the use of these funds at the place and that the state, nor the citizens, taxpayers, have the opportunity to gain insight and control – how these funds, which are collected, are spent. In this state of affairs, I ask that the finance minister determine and predict by its systematization, the Ministry of Finance, and for the control of budgets and audits, to determine a sufficient number of budgetary inspectors who will carry out detailed controls locally. In the end, I just want to remind you that in this section relating to the transfer of Panchevo's assets has received a very small amount of funds, 177 million, and above all it is an exceptional area. the municipality that has been polluted, especially the industrial zone of Azotara, Petrochemy and the Refinery. I believe that without a hundred million additional funds, problems cannot be solved in Pancheva when it comes to the environment, and the finance minister and vice-president of the government found that Panchevu, because of the bombing and environmental pollution, needed 360m euros to address the consequences. They are indeed threatening to lead to disaster in Panchev, and this is about the consequences that will take place for a longer period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10283	The People's MP Miljko Četrović (Not here) has the word. ) The word has the MP Natasa Jovanovic, please just for a moment, let me check, did you give up or were you just not there, Mr. Rankic? You just weren't there? He wasn't called? I'm sorry, since I inherited these lists. There's a Mr. Rankic after the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10284	I understand, Mr. Markovic, that it is not easy for you, your time is running out, and it is obvious that the government does not have 126 MPs, because in order to vote on a proposal, it is necessary to have you at least that many. However, my colleague Rankic will not, of course, resent me, or you, because you have made a mistake, and I will use this little time left to say something about this bill. Today we had opportunities to hear MPs from various parts of Serbia. And, the amendments that have been submitted, and most of them have, almost all of them, withdrawn the DSS parliamentary group, or each MP individually, concerned certain municipalities, certain cities and asked Minister Dinkic to increase funds for these municipalities and for these cities. Unfunctional and non-synchronization in the ruling coalition has also been shown under this law. It was obvious that he was not prepared to meet the individual demands of MPs from certain parliamentary groups, but that is why he said something simply not true to the citizens of Serbia when promoting the laws, as well as with these taxes. In fact, he said, and today almost all the media have passed on, a difficult qualification for Serbs. And he said -- Serbs have congenital defetism. Be careful how Minister Dinkic got into Serbia's defetist mood. He may get that impression because of the way the government and Kostunica's government and he as finance minister, but I am responsible for saying that Serbs are not, nor are they in any way, a people who are faced with any kind of defetism. I'd rather say that you're in a defensive position like this and now, for the simple reason that you don't have a congregation majority, doing the government's work, the National Assembly, that's exactly what they're showing. How about now the SRS MPs start talking about each other's problems, the other or the third's? You know, I come from Kragujevac and it's obvious, and that's what colleagues from other parties said, that there was an increase in funds, to Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic's insistence, worth 200 million for the town of Kragujevac. And we can talk, but next week, it will be a story for the Kragujevac City Assembly, see how these budgets will be spent, under what control they will be, and whether the Kragujevac citizens will benefit directly from it. But it was really not our intention to speak individually of the city we come from, because it is not our manners either, and the right to tell you, although I come from a city that is socially one of the most endangered, I cannot say that in the same situation there are not Pirot, Subotica and Vranje, Bujanovac, and I am not talking about Minister Dinkic's concern for municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. It is more than scandalous that our southern province in this bill is mentioned only in Article 5, where it is said that the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, and now imagine this – "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number.... And there's no number. You failed to put under what number you were seduced, or published in the "officer" budget, which you again voted at night, at four o'clock in the morning, on the night between November 18th and 19th. It also shows what kind of bill your ministry gives us, because the minister doesn't have one, and it shows extreme indifference, and what to talk about further. There is little time to touch all the problems that municipalities and cities in Serbia have, but be sure of the domestic business of local self-government authorities in municipalities and cities, however much they stand alone, and it is only possible for municipalities to decentralise, because many have misrepresented it in a campaign for local elections, and that is how they will use these funds. Is there going to be an investment in what citizens need most, and when I say I have in mind a city where I live and the fact that more than 20 settlements have no water or sewerage network, and we are in a situation where we have to look for the possibility to help these people, we in Kragujevac are now the SRS as an opposition political party. So be assured that regardless of that and perhaps the remarks made by each SRS MP individually, and that somewhere some amount is reduced by a city or municipality, in municipalities and in cities where the presidents of the municipalities, or the town of Novi Sad, are elected, the mayor and where they rule Serbian radicals, and in that citizens have to be sure, every penny that comes under this law and from local incomes and taxis will be spent in the most rational and most domestic way, and we will show it in the coming months, or in the year ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10285	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Rankic, you are not on the agenda because you were replaced by Mr. Jojic at the end of the list as 33. Here, the manuscript is here and you can check with the previous chairman. So, the word has Miljko Četrović, and let it be prepared, I do not believe there will be time, Messenger of the people of Mita Avram. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10286	Thank you, Mr. President. Listening to the whole discussion on this agenda point, as well as yesterday's debate on the Finance Committee, it's a miracle that such a bad law was led by the finance minister, and the government accepted it. Today, the minister is not present here during the debate, although it is obvious that both MPs of the position and opposition are proving that this law should not be passed at all. The only logical thing was that the Government, or the Minister on behalf of the Government, withdraws this bill, and, at the conclusion of the Finance Committee, this transfer of funds is carried out in three months as a temporary solution and that a new text of the law with objective criteria that would define the transfer of funds to municipalities in Serbia and cities is done within that time. I must look back, as I come from the municipality of Kraljevo, given the criteria that have not been changed with the amendment of the law on local self-government, and today many MPs have spoken about what additional criteria should be envisaged to compare objective reasons and facts for each municipality and for these four cities, and one fair solution lies in the transfer of funds from the budget, and to return to municipalities and cities. The king, a large municipality, and unfortunately the largest territorial one in Serbia, and 11 per capita, and yesterday I presented to the Committee that one of the criteria should, in addition to these envisaged, be the territorial size of the municipality. Also, the number of refugees, displaced and exiled persons, so Kraljevo is with more than 20,000 of these persons, although the minister said there are no data on how many of these persons there are, not only on the territory of the Kralje municipality, but in Serbia. We are now witnessing that there is a process of reporting refugees, which is due to be registered by 13 January 2005 to determine their status. I think it's a shame and a shame for one country that it's not able after so many years to give accurate data and to have accurate data, and not only in municipalities, but in every populated town and city, and in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, as many of these persons, and to monitor the status, both social and economic, and the overall state in which they are. It is only proof that the state cares about that part of the population that is in the most difficult position, although most Serbian citizens are in a very difficult position. It is incomprehensible, which relates to the situation in the municipality of Kraljevo, and it may be harder than in many municipalities, and here is mentioned Kragujevac and some other municipalities whose MPs from those territories have submitted amendments to the distribution of these funds. As an MP from the King, although there are more MPs, I felt, such as the position of the SRS, that amendments should not be submitted, because given the funds defined in the budget, the amendment is being taken away or proposed to be taken away. Unfortunately, many other factors affect the situation in one municipality, the functioning of local authorities, the position of citizens and the municipality, and I will mention, and it is already related to the functioning of local authorities, and the relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the relevant ministries affect the problems that some municipalities have. The king, as the largest territorial municipality, with over 130,000 inhabitants, without refugees, displaced and exiled, has no bypass, there is no other bridge across the Ibar River, a traffic collapse in the King takes place every morning and every afternoon. The economy doesn't work, so-called. The restructuring of large collectives, which is within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Economy, was meant to help the "Magnochrom" of the King and should have helped the car factory. We are aware that there is no help here, because there is no programme for 63 large collectives in Serbia, such as neither the Magnochrom or the car factory. The fact is that the chairman of the Management Board, Magnochroma, for many years Igor Tadic, is a relative of our President Tadic, who is now an adviser to the president of Serbia for the economy, and knows best the situation in Magnochromia employees who are essentially out of work, doing a very small part, and of 5,000 workers there are 2,400 left to be led to have a working relationship. That's the essence of the Magnochroma. So, this Igor Tadic, and now he advises the Serbian president to solve economic problems in Serbia, and probably travel abroad, as President Tadic is a lawyer for the Serbian economy, Serbian businessmen, and there is no solution for Magnohro, as there are no 63 collectives in Serbia. There's no need to talk about the car factory, apparently that program and it doesn't exist for the car factory. The director who visited 40 countries in the world, appointed by the Serbian government and the Management Board, has been removed and no work has been done, and even in the pre-election campaign, the minister of capital investment has arrived at the car factory and promised large jobs for Brazil, India and other countries. It was just a pre-election campaign story. I also asked a question at one of the meetings of the Finance Committee, Minister Dinkic, what about the Development Fund, who controls the distribution of these funds and the use of these funds. He agreed with the question and said – and I would like to know how these funds are shared. That's Minister Dinkic's answer. And we know that the Fund worked within the previous government, the DOS government, or the Democratic Party, with Rushet as an example, not to speak other examples, and it is believed that the secret around the Fund continues, and the Fund is once again tied to the fastest circle of people, who are directly related to the government of Serbia and to the narrow circles of individuals who are members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The criterion that is mentioned what is undeveloped, and what a developed municipality, I don't know, is not the minister to ask, and there will probably be an opportunity to ask the Minister of Economy how the Municipality of the Kingdom is treated as a developed or undeveloped municipality. I know of a term used by former and current current officials – the King's devastated area. I asked what that meant, but nobody explained it to me. This concludes this discussion, and I believe that this bill should have been withdrawn, gone with temporary funding by March and established objective criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-10-0.u10287	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 81(4), with an explanation that I have already given earlier, due to the importance of this law and other points of the agenda for Serbian citizens, we continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 142 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MP Stanisha Stevanovic will be absent. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (resuming in principle with 18th point – transfer funds and participation of locals in profit tax) The word has a folk MP Mita Avramov, and let the MP Radic Joković be prepared.
