ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4716	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 102 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Korać, Dragan Vuksanovic, Goran Rakovic, Velimir Stanojevic and Meko Omerović and Gordana Komic in the morning. You have accepted Boris Tadic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Boris Tadic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Committee, the National Assembly found that it had suspended its mandate before the end of the time elected to MP Boris Tadic, elected from the Democratic Party's election list -- Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for AGENCY OF AGENCY FOR THE LICENCE OF FACILITIES (principles) Before we move to the agenda point, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of Article 24(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the president of the DSS parliamentary group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is designated by the MP Milos Aligrudic. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, for this item of the agenda in front of the DSS parliamentary group, Jovan Palalic is determined in front of the DS - Aleksandar Vlahovic parliamentary group and in front of the SPS - Jovan Todorovic. We are going to work on item 2 of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the agency for licensing of bankruptcy managers. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Branislav Blažić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vjerica Radeta, Milovanovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Milan Stević, Ljubomir Kragović, Nemanja Sarović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Miljko Cetrović, Milorad Mirčić, Igor Mirović, together Jovan Todorovic, Milomir Minić and Zarko Obradović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate per parliamentary group is as follows: SRS - one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS - one hour, three minutes and 38 seconds; DS - 44 minutes and 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds; SPO-NS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, each five minutes on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the Proposer's representative, Justice Minister Zoran Stojkovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4717	Dear ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a law on bankruptcy proceedings and within that law as an additional element is now the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. I think it's a very important law, because it detaileds one of the key issues for the conduct of a valid bankruptcy procedure. The previous regulations did not properly regulate the position and affairs of bankruptcy managers, the assessment of their work was given by the court, he called for a competition for the selection of bankruptcy managers and, normally, without sufficient supervision, the absence of the need for a valid expert exam, what was happening was, therefore, that in the current procedures one of the biggest problems was the bankruptcy managers. It was about selecting people who didn't have enough expertise or knowledge. There were certain links between bankruptcy judges and bankruptcy managers, so you had situations where someone had 20 cases of bankruptcy, where it was quite clear that he couldn't carry out any valid ones, and there were always questions why 20 or 15 cases of bankruptcy were given to one man. This law, and in order to reform the whole area, envisions the establishment of the agency as an independent body whose task will be to ensure what is necessary in the bankruptcy process, increased liability of bankruptcy managers, their quality of work and slightly greater independence in the process of making those decisions purely technical. It will be the agency that will oversee the work of bankruptcy managers, collect certain data in collaboration with bankruptcy courts and have one complete register of review of the work of bankruptcy managers, with the establishment of certain valid standards for the operation of bankruptcy managers. This will enable all other interested parties to have one valid access to these registers and, most importantly, standards will be established for the proper performance of the business of the bankruptcy administrator. Normally, the Agency will also prescribe a programme, conduct exams and grant licences, or withdraw them, depending on the results shown in the work of certain bankruptcy managers. What is important in this law - not only will the Agency carry out the examination and allocation procedure, but it will also establish certain standards for the bankruptcy management procedure in courts. It will, in fact, represent one comprehensive centre for all the data that other persons need to be convinced of the validity or invalidity of the bankruptcy process itself. We've never had that before, and that's the first time we've gotten it. The courts did have that opportunity to discuss the contest and choose a number of bankruptcy managers, but we heard yesterday the controversy about whether or not they should be in the register of artists, and personally I don't think so, because they're different statuses of the artist and the bankruptcy manager. In this way, it is possible for the first time to get a list of persons with valid qualifications, they have passed exams, they have been granted a license to perform these tasks, with one increased responsibility, and also the property of those persons for the work they do. The most important thing for me is that you can track the work of a person and if they show that they're not doing a good job, you can take away their license. The agency itself will be formed and this law allows the funds to be provided from both the budget and certain donations, with which, normally, there would be no obligation to donors who provide funds for the establishment of this agency. The Agency would have its own bodies, such as the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director. It clearly distinguishes all these three functions and jobs they perform. The Agency would have control over the government, which would propose members of the Supervisory Board, i.e. to elect the Supervisory Board and the Director of the Agency. That seems to be on the proposal of that minister whose resor is actually this matter, the Minister of Economy. The competent authorities, primarily the Supervisory Board, are obliged to adopt a statute providing for all obligations of the agency itself, and the control of the legality of the work of this agency will be carried out by the Ministry of Economy, which will also be reported to the government. We think that with the formation of an agency like this, for the first time, we get an independent body, which will be able to provide proper licensing of bankruptcy managers and, most importantly, to form valid standards for the operation of bankruptcy managers, with one adequate control of bankruptcy proceedings. These are the key things that have not existed so far in this legislation, which has led to such problems that we have unprofessional managers, managers associated with bankruptcy judges and managers who, while doing other jobs, without some responsibility for what they are doing, have received a mass of cases, and the economy has fallen into bankruptcy. With this law, we want to prevent this from happening, and within the framework of this previous law, we want to get one continent for the adequate implementation of the bankruptcy procedure. For these reasons, I ask the MPs, they read this proposal well, so that this law can be adopted in order to obtain a truly comprehensive substance that regulates this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4718	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Justice and Administration Committee - Branislav Ristivojevic and the Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you are, Mr. Palalic, an authorised DSS representative for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4719	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this draft law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers of the DSS will support it, because it is fully comprehensible to the solutions set out in the Bill on the bankruptcy procedure that we have supported. This conceptal harmonisation, in a way and complementing those provisions, is seen in the decision of the Bill on the bankruptcy procedure relating to the amended position and jurisdiction of the bankruptcy managers in relation to the still applicable Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and winding-up. This amended position of bankruptcy managers is primarily reflected in the fact that, on the one hand, bankruptcy managers are given much broader powers, they are given the responsibility of operational, management functions in the management of the debtor, and, on the other hand, because of such higher powers, their responsibility is increased which is also material, since it clearly points to responsibility for the damage caused by the continuous bankruptcy procedure. In addition, the specific decisions of this agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers may be sanctioned by the withdrawal of the work license. In addition to the fact that an earlier bankruptcy administrator had such a position that was not entirely independent and was hampered by decisions of the bankruptcy council and the bankruptcy court in some way, as mentioned in the presentation of Minister Stojkovic, no criteria were laid down in trade courts for the selection of bankruptcy managers. The bankruptcy directors could have been any person who was, at any rate, unskilled for their business, had no management experience, that I'm not saying that she had no experience in financial issues. And we had situations that most of these bankruptcy managers had in their possessions and businesses, both agencies and law offices, and all of this created great conditions for the creation of corruption in the bankruptcy process itself. Therefore, we were faced with the fact that in such a situation absences, many bankruptcy managers managed bankruptcy procedures in a large number of enterprises, which were not able to implement them in a good way, and on the other hand, the proceedings lasted so long that the value of the creditor was reduced. In such bankruptcy proceedings there were also abuses at the expense of certain creditors. Some creditors were in a privileged position, depending on their relationship with bankruptcy managers. This is precisely the fact that the draft bankruptcy law gives wider powers to bankruptcy managers, but increases their responsibility, was the reason that, as the second law in this bankruptcy law package, a law on a bankruptcy licensing agency is proposed. The agency has very clear and important obligations - it establishes standards in the conduct of the procedure, establishes a code of ethics for bankruptcy managers, but what is very important and what is pointed out here is that it is the first independent body that outside of a commercial court, outside of a bankruptcy court, oversees the work of bankruptcy managers and has a very strong instrument in its hands. This is the possibility of confiscation of the licence to those bankruptcy managers that the bankruptcy proceedings lead against the interests of bankruptcy entities. It is in this sense that the agency, and it is important to point out, has the possibility that through the development of the education programme, through the passing of expert exams it introduces into our legal system and finally raises one important issue, which is to professionalise the work in our services, increase expertise, seek to innovate knowledge, seek to continuously perfect ourselves and that the work in the authorities of the state administration is done by professional and trained people, and that no longer tolerates ignorance and abuse. The very notion of a bankruptcy manager is given in Article 14. The bill on bankruptcy proceedings and clearly states who can be a bankruptcy manager and clearly indicates that it cannot be a person without a licence. This is a designated person who has obtained a license to perform the business of a bankruptcy manager and who has the status of a private entrepreneur. The status of a private entrepreneur is very important, because yesterday's term here also mentions the name of some bankruptcy manager who allegedly owns the company. Here, for the first time, this function is professionalized and we have the opportunity to avoid that kind of abuse. As regards the solutions themselves in the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, it is clear what business the agency is in. It issues, but also renews and withdraws the license, which is very important, controls the work and initiates, past the bankruptcy court, the possibility of withdrawing the license. As for the question - why the agency, it's a concept question. We have a previous situation that most agencies are formed by a regulation, as one of the sublaws, where there was no control of the work of those agencies or the control of the financial operations of those agencies. All those agencies formed by a regulation in the previous period were abolished and this government clearly took the view that all agencies must be formed by law, that this Parliament may have control and insight into the work of all these agencies and that questions could be raised before this Parliament as to how funds have been spent and what the effects of the work of those agencies are. The issue of agencies as organs is something that is not unknown in Europe. We have an example of Great Britain where a strategic decision has been made to move these important operational issues and responsibilities from the ministries and to transfer them to external authorities; so we have a situation where 138 agencies are formed and strategic decisions are made in ministries. In this way, the ministries disbursement certain businesses. Control is important in the formation of agencies, parliament is taking over this time. The draft bankruptcy law, which I must again point out in front of the DSS parliamentary group that it is a great law, that it is a strategic law in the Serbian economy, that it opens up the possibility of divorcing the fog on what the situation in our economy is, that there is a successful game on the Serbian market, of course it also contains that social dimension that is necessary to protect employees and enable only those who have real jobs and work. It is related to the formation of this agency, which in the coming period will quickly develop educational programmes through its acts, which are made possible by individual solutions under this law, to establish more precise criteria for who can get a license for this work, and in the coming period we expect to more stringent, more effectively control the work of bankruptcy managers from happening to us, as we already have, that various mechanics, thanks to their ties in bankruptcy courts, lead to individual proceedings and knowingly reduce the property of a creditor, in order to accommodate the positions of individual creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. The fact that the bankruptcy procedure that is being promoted by this law is more effective, that deadlines are accurate, that it will take longer, that we get bankruptcy managers who know their jobs, who have been in management; they are in some way placed in a position that, if they want to work professionally, to register as entrepreneurs, to get a license, to innovate their skills, to study continuously. We will come to the situation that this important segment of the Serbian economy will be rapidly promoted as one of the strategic issues of healing Serbia's economy and creating a market that will be a condition for only those who are able to compete on it, and that is the only way to enter global flows in Europe with strong competition, to compete with clear interests on the European market. In this regard, the DSS supports this law and I call on all MPs to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4720	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here you are, Mr Vlahovic, the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the DS will pass the law on the agency to license bankruptcy managers. In other words, they will vote to pass this law, taking into account several unforgiving facts. The first is that without this law there is no operationalisation of bankruptcy laws, and it would be completely illogical not to vote in favour of the bankruptcy law on the law of the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. Secondly, this is also part of a package of laws that was prepared in the past period. What is most important, essentially, the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, if it is well placed in an organisational and operational sense, will allow for the settlement of the situation in one very important profession, for a very important process, or for a bankruptcy procedure, which will ultimately allow bankruptcy procedures to really be the restructuring of the part of the Serbian economy that cannot be restructured in accordance with other laws. The Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers will, as I said, make it possible to sort out the situation in this very important area. We've never had this institute before. Essentially, that bankruptcy processes and, in general, institutions and participants in the bankruptcy process were given the relevant importance, it was realistic to expect that the bankruptcy managers themselves would establish their own Esnafian association and then to make their internal rules of relations between themselves, bring ethical codes, define the elemental standards of the association and ultimately define the way the bankruptcy manager becomes. Since neither the bankruptcy manager was a profession promoted in the light of a more transparent, open bankruptcy procedure, nor was there, on the other hand, the state's intensities, or legislator's to define bankruptcy proceedings in a more efficient and faster way, that it really serves to heal the Serbian economy, and not to be a field for further social property expansion, hence we didn't have an initiative that would come from bankruptcy managers. But that doesn't mean that a bankruptcy agency should have a lifetime that's going to be very long. I expect that this law and this institution will only have a temporary fact, in the beginning, until basic standards are defined, until the Esnaf Association of Banks continues to take over this very important area, therefore, of the Esnaf Association of Banks. I expect that it will be for no longer than five years, and in that case the complete procedure and complete matter will be left where it belongs, which is exactly the bankruptcy manager, as is the case with many other areas where the Esnaf associations define their internal rules, define penalties for non-solidal members of these Esnaf associations. I'll remind you, we have the Association of Auditors, the Association of Evaluators, we have, after all, various other associations from other areas which, by means of rules, procedures, factually self-organizing, without initiative from the state. Here was a necessary initiative, given that we will get a modern bankruptcy law, which requires, among other things, a modern bankruptcy institution. Many institutions in Serbia are in turn. So the quality of these institutions' functioning is very low. Some do not exist and therefore an initiative by the executive authority is necessary and, on the other hand, a confirmation of the legislative authority to establish and improve the quality of functioning of institutions. This is where I find it really unclear, if today we are going to go with the adoption of the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers and with the establishment of an institution for bankruptcy managers, why didn't we do so a month and a half ago, when we discussed in this same house the amendments and additions to the Law on the system of education and education, when the Institute of License was previously introduced just by the decision of this assembly, by adopting amendments to that law. Whenever you have temporary licensing and whenever there is a threatened penalty that this licence can be lost, and without a licence there is no basic activity that is defined by a certain law, then, be sure, you have at least at the beginning guaranteed conditions for quality professional performance. As in this case, by introducing a licence for bankruptcy managers, a bankruptcy procedure, at least from this point of view, from the point of view of making operational decisions (which will be the role of bankruptcy managers tomorrow), will be qualitatively improved, I am sure that the quality of education will be significantly reduced precisely because by voting in this assembly we actually abolished the Institute of Educational Administration Licences. What I want to say is - regardless of the adoption of the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers - a job on the establishment of quality institutions for the successful implementation of bankruptcy procedures and on the use of bankruptcy procedures as a way of healing that part of the Serbian economy in the operational, liquid or strategic crisis will depend greatly on how the bankruptcy process will be accepted in a political sense. It will depend on whether whoever creates economic policy continues to view bankruptcy as a way to preserve what kind of false, false, social peace, or is willing to, taking strong positive measures, use this process to heal the Serbian economy. It will also depend on the positioning of an institutional liquidator or a bankruptcy manager over social property. We do not have (although it is not part of the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, but it is interlinked) the law clearly and precisely defined institution which will, in institutional terms, be the bankruptcy manager of enterprises located in social property. An organisation is defined which will only be laid down by law. I suggest that it should be the Privatisation Agency and the very part of the Privatisation Agency that has been working so far to restructure large systems. There are people there who, hopefully, have not been suffocated so far, such as the entire privatisation process has been suffocating enough over the past few months; there is a policy there, a defined procedure that can very easily be applied precisely to the operational implementation of this bankruptcy process. This is very important because so far the bankruptcy process, which lasted on average for 7.2 years, was mostly a way to stretch the rest of the social property. That's not good. The longer the bankruptcy proceedings take, the less the value of the assets. If you do not have someone in the institutional sense to control the work of bankruptcy managers who are candidates for managers of social property enterprises, who are in bankruptcy proceedings, then you will lose the ability to apply this very important procedure in a more effective way. I will remind you once again, when at the Ministry of Business and Privatisation a year ago we sent a bankruptcy law and a law on the agency for licensing of bankruptcy managers, it was our idea that this process be in function of healing, not the liquidation of the Serbian economy. Because of all this, the DS will vote for this bill. Of course, it is understood, unless there are significant changes by adopting certain amendments. We're in principle under the law of the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4722	Does any other president or representative of the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: G17 plus, DSS, SRS and DS. The People's Messenger Željko Ivanji has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4723	When we talk about bankruptcy managers, we have two levels of observation of the concept of bankruptcy director. One level is what was happening in life, and the other is a formal-law aspect of the business of bankruptcy managers. When we talk about bankruptcy managers from the previous period, we can think of those things that we've all been involved in, so, by fighting corruption. We remember the bankruptcy manager, Marcicev, and the bankruptcy procedure at the company "Centroexport", selling property for small money to a Sešelj firm; also, a bankruptcy procedure in "Partizanka", whose substance of the property has been changed by now building apartments in the area of the factory hall. We remember the bankruptcy manager Janjusevic, who owned the company whose property was sold for small money, the bankruptcy manager at the Shipyard "Belgrade". What characterized the bankruptcy administrators during that period was intricacy, arbitraryness, and relationships that were often based on friendly and best man-to-man relationships. Someone was talking about the agency forming one caste. Casta is certainly not an agency, and if it is a caste, then it is better to make it a caste of educated, professional and educated people, rather than a mob organization that most resembled this bankruptcy procedure with its bankruptcy managers. When it comes to formal-legal character, it is certain that the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation has not detailedly regulated matter related to profession, standards and the status of bankruptcy managers. Commercial courts called competitions, made up a list of potential managers, without keeping a single record and without common standards of expertise and quality. It is these standards and the establishment of these standards that are crucial in the normal functioning of a new and educated bankruptcy manager. The standard must exist. Any arbitraryness must be eliminated. The court was the only supervisory authority on the work of the warden. There was no obligation to pass a professional qualification exam or any form of education. Of course, bankruptcy managers must be educated and, of course, the Agency must monitor all trends known in parallel practice. That's right, with that new knowledge, the bankruptcy managers will be able to upgrade it. What was the characteristic of the previous period is that one bankruptcy manager conducted 20 bankruptcy proceedings. We've always come across a wall in a trade court about bankruptcy managers, when the President of the Court always said -- well, my bankruptcy managers are burdened with a lot of work. He never said they were in charge of all the 20 bankruptcy proceedings they were conducting. They complained that they were burdened, but the fee was always gladly accepted. Of course, the quality of the work done was not at an enviable level and of course the bankruptcy procedure lasted for years. This agency law relies on the practice of modern countries, as well as transition countries, which is extremely important, because these comparative models can only be of benefit to us, but they cannot harm us at all. The bill itself stipulates that bankruptcy managers, other than high professional training, must have passed a professional examination. That's what was missing in the previous period. Employees and creditors were clear about what was going on in terms of the level of education of bankruptcy managers and who were these people. Most of the time, they had nothing to do with the work they're doing. The agency will promote a clear function of the bankruptcy manager, provide professional quality in the performance of the business of bankruptcy managers and, as I said, establish the necessary standards of profession, thus ensuring both the legality and the higher level of liability of bankruptcy managers. As we all know, I said that by establishing a law on a trading entity registration agency, we were then fighting "fat finger syndrome". This syndrome that occurred in the previous period can be called "sticky-toes syndrome" or "thin fingers". These thin fingers were dragged into the pockets of citizens and employees in businesses, who together created this property that the bankruptcy managers sold for small money, and creditors who were definitely damaged by selling property for a meaningless amount, such as the "Centroexport" and many others. The property can no longer return to the creditors or those companies. So that's what we're going to fight, and by this law ourselves, we're rooting out this other syndrome.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4724	The word has a People's MP Branislav Rankic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, a very short law with 15 members. If the first two are excluded, which define the agency and its headquarters, and the last three, relating to transitional and final provisions, means 10 members. This can tell us about the government entering a certain standard form when it comes to the establishment of agencies. Whenever a bill arises in front of this congregation, the agency’s establishment proposal follows about that. However, the establishment of this agency makes things different. It is evident here, above all, by looking at the name of the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers and the jobs it performs, that the government tried to deceive the MPs and the National Assembly. This is the following: already in Article 3 when it comes to the operations carried out by the Agency, points 5), 6), 7) and 8) do not apply to the licensing of bankruptcy managers at all. Since Mr. Minister is here, I would ask him, for example, point 6) of Article 3: "The Agency collects and processes statistics and other data of importance for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings". Mr. Minister, what does this business have to do with the licensing of bankruptcy managers? Nothing. Here is point 7: "It proposes national standards for the management of bankruptcy and code of ethics, which are adopted in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy proceedings". What does this have to do with licensing bankruptcy managers? There's nothing. You see, at point 8 is "slag on cake", it's said that the jobs of point one. 1), (2) and (4) of this member of the Agency shall perform as entrusted tasks. It is that these four first points apply to what the Agency is doing, meaning, issue, renewal and withdrawal of the licence, etc. It's her trusted business, and these jobs that aren't supposed to belong here at all, they stand here as the original agency's business. Then it would be quite logical that the title of this law – the draft law on the agency to conduct bankruptcy proceedings, because licensing is one thing, and here everything that happens in the Agency's affairs, practically, comes down to business being done in order to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. Article 4 puts the agency in a position to deal with a kind of spy business. Namely, what's this about? The reasoning of the law states that supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers is carried out by agencies based on written reports by bankruptcy managers, but also on close co-operation with bankruptcy judges. That means the agency collects data through judges, doesn't trust written reports from the bankruptcy director. It's not meant for any of the companies that come under bankruptcy to have any business secrets. The Agency collects these data with a very clear purpose. You'll see in article 6, which is the goal of collecting all that data, but I'll take it in a row. Article 5 says, "In order to carry out certain professional tasks, the Agency may hire domestic or foreign legal or natural persons." As soon as you put "can engage", make sure you hire both foreign and domestic natural and legal persons. Why the agency collects data will be clear to you from Article 6 where the funds for the establishment of the agency are being discussed – they are being provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And so far, mainly practice has shown that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the one that provides money for the establishment and operation of agencies, and that donations, contributions and sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons are present only if those persons, legal and physical, foreign and domestic, have an interest. In this case, they have an interest, because the agency will provide them with information that they are experiencing during bankruptcy, related to certain companies, if they are donors or sponsors of the Agency's work. In fact, you know there's nothing free and no one's going to give money unless they're interested. For example, I don't have any interest and I certainly won't give money for the establishment and operation of the agency, but some others who have an interest in accessing data relating to a company in the course of bankruptcy will give money for the Agency's work and thus provide the agency with information on the situation of the company and how easily they can reach the company. We have some other things about this agency, which are slightly different from the agencies that have been established so far. The agency has a board of directors, whose president and members are elected by the government. The Agency also has a supervisory board, whose president and members are elected by the Government. The agency has a director appointed by the government again. It was usually a practice for the board of directors to appoint a director. But it's all government here. The question now arises why (in Article 12) The Ministry of Business Affairs shall carry out tasks of supervision of the Agency's work. Then what does the monitoring committee appointed by the government do? Does the government appoint people out there who don't trust each other, and yet somehow it has to spy on these people, that it comes to data, not trusting those she's named to give accurate information when it comes to the data they have. Finally, we have another strange thing in the explanation, it is said that the agency's main goal is to promote and improve the profession of the bankruptcy manager. If that's the agency's primary objective, then why in the Agency's affairs are you citing and collecting data, controlling the bankruptcy process and everything else? If that is the basic goal, why don't you solve it much more efficiently – through advertising on TV. Let's say, when you can go into electoral silence to advertise the ministries and to indirectly influence voters, that voters should sublimely support the government's representative, why don't you advertise the business of a bankruptcy manager through public television ads. That would be far more meaningful than having your agency's primary goal being to promote that profession and that's all you're setting up an agency for. When members from 3rd to 5 are explained here, it is said: "This provision leaves the agency with the possibility that the performance of certain tasks from its jurisdiction should be delegated to other professionals, if it considers that there is a need for this and that its capacities are not sufficient to cover a particular type or certain volume of business." What kind of job is that? This is the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. What kind of huge business has it that has to delegate its responsibilities to other professionals? Or is this not an agency to license bankruptcy managers, but a bankruptcy agency? You've lied to us in the title, as a pronoun; or the previous government, since they claim this is their bill of law. Finally, we come to the conclusion that all of this is due to be paid by 30 million dinars, i.e. roughly recalculated, about 430,000 euros. When you first explained this law, you literally said this was a comprehensive data collection centre. What does the data collection centre have to do with the licensing of bankruptcy managers? It would be good for you to re-establish some relationship and respond here during the day. If you remember, and the MPs who followed closely, a month and a half ago I said from this pay phone that this uncontrollable establishment of the agencies would lead to a situation to start setting up agencies at a local level. I can tell you that a student accommodation agency has been established in Bora. This is part of the agenda. The Bor dormitory has about 150 double rooms and since 1990, workers have been living in a large number of rooms, since there are not enough students, so students have no problem with accommodation. But apparently some local NGOs helped to establish such an agency through college. The Agency is engaged in real estate traffic and thus is in a privileged position, not paying taxes in relation to others, but since this is not enough, it has to be financed from the budget. To achieve this, when you come to the Bor Community Assembly to verify that some photocopy is true to the original, you pay 300 dinars. The same job is 30 dinars in the neighboring municipality. Why? Bor has his own small local agencies and will establish them more and more, and the Frog has no need and no need to burden the citizens so much. This is a bad example because you will be in a situation where you start to create licensing agencies, say, local taxi drivers, drinking water management agencies; very soon we will get into the situation I was talking about a month and a half ago, that we will practically one day expect Serbia to work in some agencies, and the economy is standing, nothing works, and there is no where to provide funds in the budget. If the budget is in deficit, and it is, I'd like you to tell me how we're going to provide 30 million dinars or 430,000 euros for the establishment of one of these agencies, because the agency is founded not to do the work they write in her title but to do other jobs entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4726	The word has a folk MP Milan Markovic, and let the MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4727	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vlahovic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – has already said that we will support this law, as we will also vote for the bankruptcy law. Simply, this licensing law cannot be seen separately from the bankruptcy law, because it is a dispute of an idea, an idea that has practically been created during the previous government. In fact, in June 2003, the bill was prepared and I voiced some surprise and dissatisfaction in my discussion Friday because it was waiting this long for this law to come to the agenda. Of course, we will vote in favour of this law, as well as the previous laws which are, in fact, laws proposed practically by the Democratic Party or which represent the continuation of the economic policy established by the Democratic Party; we will vote in favour of all those laws that we ourselves would, if we were able to exercise power, propose to the Assembly. It was our promise, and we as an opposition hold it firmly, that we very principledly support everything we consider to be quality and good, and that we never suggest any solution that we ourselves would not apply to be in power. In fact, we're not going to be dealing with any political or social demagogy. This law is very important, and I don't think that we should be asking the question of money here that needs to be invested in the realisation of the formation of such an agency, because practically 10 and 100 times the losses that occurred in the previous period through various malversions, intricacies, inability and ineffectiveness of those who led bankruptcy, especially when it comes to social and state-owned enterprises. The quality of this law is already well known to us and I will therefore repeat only a few key points relating to the bankruptcy law and to the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers, because this is practically one item of the agenda and we are not clear why some MPs in parliament did not support a proposal to merge the agenda points. I think we should do it here as efficiently and economically as possible, and that is how we would do it, and not now, practically, to repeat ourselves, or to repeat the discussions and arguments that we have already heard in the previous days. The government representative is not here, but I will take this opportunity to ask my colleagues from the ruling coalition to try to implement a proposal that I made here in a discussion on the bankruptcy law Friday, and this proposal concerns the code of ethics. According to Article 14 of the bankruptcy law, the Code of Ethics is passed by the Agency, and at the proposal of the Minister of Industry. My proposal was for the Code of Ethics to contain the obligation of bankruptcy managers to accept bankruptcy under the appropriate conditions. So, it's that we can't let today/tomorrow's bankruptcy director speculate with a bankruptcy judge, that he's guessing with the court whether or not he's going to accept some bankruptcy. Simply, if adequate conditions are offered, it must accept that bankruptcy, that it be a simple matter of ethics, such as lawyers are obliged to accept the defence, etc. We must not be allowed to have bankruptcys for which no bankruptcy manager is interested. Please accept this remark, because I think it will mean a lot in practice. So I'm going to mention key things about these two laws, namely the introduction of this new institution, a new way of working in terms of bankruptcy. First, efficiency, and we've already talked about it. It should be repeated because of the public that the bankruptcy now lasts more than seven years and if this law is passed and if the courts follow the letters of the law - and it is simply terrible that we must at all and ask ourselves whether someone will do so, but we live in a country where such things happen, that someone does not stick to the letters of the law - it is expected that bankruptcy will not last for more than one year. We have already said that this is important, because the imperative is to preserve the value of the company and it is very important to return the funds to the economy as soon as possible so that they can continue to be used for economic purposes. There's another bankruptcy director, and I think there's a key paper on this bill. So, the bankruptcy manager from now on can't be anyone. Fortunately or unfortunately, a bankruptcy manager must be a licensed person, and in order to get a license from a bankruptcy administrator, he must pass an appropriate expert exam. What do we want with this, this time the government, but so do we from the opposition because we have proposed this law? We want bankruptcy managers to be professionalized, licensed, educated, educated, to know corporate law, corporate economy, to simply create all those preconditions that will reduce the chance of abuse. Unfortunately, abuses can never be excluded, either because of ignorance, intricacies, etc. Because in the previous period, we had three kinds of wardens. One was good, safe, and responsible managers, and they, as far as they could under certain conditions and by positive regulations, did their job. There I agree with colleagues who claim that even the previous prerogative wasn't so bad, but it certainly left more room for these other two kinds of managers that I'm going to mention. These are unequivocal and incompetent managers and the third kind are managers who do not meet the basic moral criteria in order to be entrusted to them with social or state capital in a situation where the entity has become incompetent for further payment. We are witnesses, the colleague mentioned earlier, one association of all those entities involved in the bankruptcy process, except, of course, creditors and workers who remain unemployed; therefore, the association of all of these other entities which consisted of their personal benefit, and to the detriment of the social community, trustees and, of course, employees employed in these companies. Here we come to something that I think is most important to our public and the most important newspaper in our system, which is that for the entities with the majority state or social capital the bankruptcy process will be run by a special, specialized organization. Mr Vlahovic also said the proposal of our parliamentary club is that for the sake of economic, efficiency and principles of functionality it will be the Privatisation Agency. We hope that the government will adopt this proposal. We believe that the most important thing here is that with special attention, bankruptcy will also be done by the managers who are licensed, because this agency, a specialised organisation, will have to employ exclusively licensed persons. The social and state assets will no longer be subject to a further two, three, four, five, six, and maybe 10 years, but within a relatively short period of one year, the bankruptcy process will be completed. In doing so, the state itself, of course, is primarily interested in social peace, providing all the preconditions and doing everything in its power through this agency to end this bankruptcy in social and state-owned enterprises without abuse, without machination or unnecessary delay in the whole process. That's under point 5, what I think our public fully supports, i.e. We can't keep the debtors in a position of privilege. We can't keep him who borrows, and he doesn't come back to be privileged. I think the existing law on executive procedure gives us a good chance of changing that. This time we impose it on all these entities, I mean the economics, so when bankruptcy occurs, and I think it's a standard that we generally have to accept as a society and as individuals, that debtors can't be privileged. In fact, trustees' interests must be taken into account and, in the end, it is a moral or ethical principle that we simply have to apply. I think that this law substantially changes the position of the trustee and we should not talk about this law, or the bankruptcy law, because virtually no important action can be done without the consent of the creditors or those who are most interested in the fate of the bankruptcy, i.e. the denominations. We need to repeat the social component, so, in addition to general, because how we know that this law introduces one system solution, besides that there is also one that applies to payment lines where very privileged workers and employees are. So, they need to know that now they can no longer have a situation where their company is in bankruptcy for two, three, five or six years without receiving any money or any of the salaries for all those years. Namely, they are now in the second, and de facto in the first payment order, because we cannot count as the payment order of the costs of the bankruptcy process, and even before the state itself, which is a solution that is slightly different from the principle of a liberal economy, but Serbia is in a situation where the supreme and basic principle must be social protection, i.e. the protection of our endangered citizens, and this is very important because this law represents an important novelty and significant value for our society. So, for us in the DS, there is no dilemma, with every law that changes our society systematically and better, and we believe that these two laws, the bankruptcy law and the bankruptcy license law, are exactly what they are doing. That is why we will support this law, in the hope that in the further work of the Assembly, so to speak, in one co-operation that should exist between the parties of the government and the opposition, we will have, to a greater extent, the laws of this kind of character on the agenda. I already said last time, in these things you'll always have the help of the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4728	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Branimir Trajkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard the MPs who defend this law and say that it is good, even wonders why some MPs did not vote to join the debate on bankruptcy law and the law on the bankruptcy agency. We didn't vote for it, because I can say that you have no idea and that you could have put it into one law and finished your job as one single debate, without any pressure on the MPs. Furthermore, a colleague said the same thing, when it comes to bankruptcy managers, that so far in practice there were examples that one bankruptcy manager conducted the procedure at 20, 30, and more businesses and he did not give up his fees anywhere. Exactly, there were such companies, such examples, mostly on that side where it's mentioned, for example. Janjušević and Kolesar, who sat with you until yesterday. Now I ask the question which provisions in this law prevent it, whether there's some provision that can prevent a bankruptcy manager from being a bankruptcy manager in 20 or 30 companies, and they still say they've been taking compensation for it before. Look at your bill, the first payment order is the cost of the bankruptcy process. The costs of the bankruptcy proceedings shall be the court fee to be paid for the bankruptcy proceedings and the compensation for the operation of the bankruptcy manager. Now you're saying that those old laws were worse than the ones you bring. At least they're the same if they're not worse now. As far as the proposal for a law on the Agency is concerned, and what is the purpose of the agency we can discuss in particular, the claim that these two laws will do much better to organise the business of carrying out bankruptcy proceedings, that this bankruptcy procedure will be carried out by better quality, more capable, professional people, when the law on the licensing agency is examined. Because what does the law say, what are the agency's jobs? In Article 3(1), point (1) - issues, renewals and withdrawals of the licence for the conduct of the business of the bankruptcy administrator, in accordance with the law. In point 2), point 1 - organizes and conducts a professional exam for the bankruptcy manager. Then, in Article 7 of the Agency’s authority, it says that the Agency’s authorities are the board of directors, directors, and supervisory board, and how these agencies are then formed and all bodies are proposed by the government. So, the board of directors, which consists of presidents and four members, adopts the statutes, and I guess that statute should provide for provisions on that body of the Agency, I mean the authority that will issue the licence. Now the question is whether these people who are going to work at the agency are even qualified to do this job and whether those who are professional and able to issue a license to some bankruptcy manager, but that doesn't say anywhere in this law, not in the bankruptcy law, not in the bankruptcy law, not in the bankruptcy management license law, so there's no such provision. It could literally be anyone sitting on the board of directors, making statutes, bringing in a program, making a financial report, issuing licenses to bankruptcy managers. The only condition is that the bankruptcy manager has three years of working experience, according to the bankruptcy law, and that's where the whole story of his ability ends. In Article 5. The bill says: "In order to carry out certain professional tasks, the agency may hire domestic or foreign legal or natural persons from its jurisdiction. "I'm glad that at least in one law you put it so nicely, we can finally find out where that money goes for specialized services. So it goes to domestic or foreign legal or physical persons for some specialised services, we pay for the mind this government needs to have. I guess ministers, ministerial assistants, deputy ministers, are able to, at least, hope so, so presented to the public, that they don't need some ex post expertise on the side that we're paying for this year, I think 8.5 billion dinars. One more thing to say, as some "slag" is the fact that the report on the agency's work is delivered to the minister responsible for business affairs, and this one is obliged to deliver it to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It would not be terrible if it were 2%, 3% or 4% of businesses, businesses, but rather the problem is that more than 30% or 40% of businesses in Serbia are in bankruptcy. He was wrong when he said, when I asked for an amendment that the business of a bankruptcy manager could be carried out by a court expert, because, according to the very concept of bankruptcy law and the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, all these companies are condemned to bankruptcy and the only judicial expert can determine the true value of the company, not accounting. Because by bookkeeping value, you can prove to one company that there are 100 million dinars, or losses, and everything to be according to the Accounting Act, therefore, with all the provisions on revaluation, depreciation, etc. That's why it's the business of a bankruptcy manager, to show exactly what the market value of that entity is over which privatisation is carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4730	The People's MP Branimir Trajkovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4731	Ladies and gentlemen, the need to introduce order in the selection of bankruptcy managers has forced the adoption of a law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. Trade courts were the ones who called for bids for the involvement of bankruptcy managers. They themselves were engrossed in large businesses about the large number of bankruptcys of domestic enterprises, unable to make quality choices, records and supervision of bankruptcy managers. So it happened that the business of bankruptcy managers was done by persons with insufficient knowledge and qualifications. No obligation to pass a professional or classification exam or any type of compulsory vocational education, as well as obtaining or renewing a licence (or licence) for the operations of a bankruptcy administrator has been prescribed. The legal reform that the government has begun with its arrival required in addition to a modern bankruptcy law and bankruptcy laws. In order to achieve this reform and the overall bankruptcy legislation and to create conditions for the effective implementation of the bankruptcy procedure, the Government has been defined as already tested models of transition countries, as well as some Western systems. As I said yesterday at this pay phone, the role of a bankruptcy manager has been strengthened. His data is greater authority and more freedom to work. The conditions for the licence are at least high professional preparation and passed an expert exam. The law also stipulates that the programme and the conduct of the exams, as well as the supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers, will be carried out by an agency to license bankruptcy managers. The Agency, as the first specialised state-owned institution, should establish the necessary optimal knowledge test that persons interested in the profession of the bankruptcy administrator must meet. The reason why this was left to the agency is to avoid different standards and criteria for the performance of bankruptcy managers. For the first time in our country, uniform, equal and objective criteria for all interested are introduced. The agency also supervises the work of bankruptcy managers, with a view to renewing or withdrawing the licence. A single directory of bankruptcy managers for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is run by the agency, is also prescribed. Finally, the agency twice annually submits a written report to the Ministry of Economy, which oversees the agency's work. The DSS will support this law and we propose to all MPs of the Republic Assembly to vote for it, to help this government reform the bankruptcy legislation round up this law as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4732	The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would briefly refer to the law that was passed yesterday, like, in this assembly, which is the law on bankruptcy proceedings and to Article 14 of that law, where conditions that a bankruptcy administrator must fulfil are defined. In Article 14 of the bankruptcy procedure, it states that a person who has obtained a licence to perform the business of a bankruptcy manager, who has the status of a private entrepreneur, may be appointed as a insolvency manager... Therefore, the bankruptcy managers in Serbia will be only private entrepreneurs in the future. The same article in the last position states that in the process of carrying out bankruptcy against a legal person who is in the majority state, or social property for a bankruptcy manager, will in no way appoint a specialised institution established by a special regulation, which must have an employee who has a licence under the first position of this member. Nowhere in the law has it been said that it is a specialised institution, nor any regulation will be established, but it is said in an explanation that it is the Privatisation Agency. Therefore, for the bankruptcy of social enterprises and enterprises with majority state property, the bankruptcy manager will be the Privatisation Agency, but the agency must have employees who have a license. Now I'm wondering how the Agency can have an employee with a license, if only a private entrepreneur can have a license? Does this mean that the Agency will be employed by private entrepreneurs? I think this is a little contradictory and that the motionor had to make sure that this contradiction was avoided. I think it was much smarter for the promoter, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to come to this assembly house with a draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, because this is what is more important for Serbia today than this law on bankruptcy proceedings and the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. Today, we in Serbia have a big problem with the Law on Privatisation, i.e. with the privatisation of many companies that are badly privatised. The privatisation agency is today breaking up a good number of purchase contracts signed with new owners, because new owners do not meet the terms of the contract and so we come to a legal vacuum situation, because the Privatisation Act did not provide for such a case, a case of termination of the contract. Now the agency has no solution. They don't know what they're going to do with these companies, how they're going to keep working, how they're going to do them and whether they're going to privatize them again and in what way. It would have been much smarter if we had discussed the Privatisation Act today, if we had changed it to allow businesses in Serbia who were badly privatised, in which the contract was broken, so that they could be consolidated in a certain way, take care of their business and privatise according to a new, more quality law. As for the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, we in the SRS think that the law is as bad as the previous one, that it is unnecessary, excessive. Namely, this law establishes one body, one legal person who will only have a job to issue licences to bankruptcy managers. In accordance with Article 3 of this proposal, the tasks to be carried out by this agency are taxed, and immediately, at the end of this article, the Agency is told which tasks it conducts as entrusted tasks. It is beautifully stated that the work under point 1), (2), and (4) is carried out by the agency as trusted. The question is, who trusts the agency with these jobs? It's probably the Department of Economy, which makes sense. If the Department of Industry trusts some of the agency's jobs, the question is, why doesn't it just do them? The Department of Business has enough personnel, space, enough people to just do these jobs. Point 1) states that the first job of the agency is to issue, renew, and withdraw the license to carry out the operations of the bankruptcy manager, in accordance with the law. This work of issuing and renewing a licence is a technical job that can be carried out by the Ministry of Economy, or the Ministry of Industry. Point 2) - the agency organises and conducts a professional exam for the bankruptcy manager. According to Article 14 of the bankruptcy law, the minister of the economy prescribes conditions, programme and way of passing an expert examination. If the minister prescribes both the conditions and the programme and the way in which the expert examination is passed, why could the Ministry not carry out this expert exam, to implement it, to organise a professional examination for the bankruptcy manager? Why do we now have a special agency to implement this programme, which is prescribed by the Ministry, which will only organise the exam and give people licenses for the job? The third point is that it's the agency's job to run the bank manager's directory. And this is a technical job, keeping a directory. And that job can be done by two men in the Ministry. Why does it take a special agency to run this business when it comes to a technical job? Point 4) - The agency shall monitor the work and monitor the development of the profession of the bankruptcy manager. Already in Article 12 of the bankruptcy act, it is said who is overseeing the work of bankruptcy managers. This surveillance is done by a more bankrupt, or bankruptcy judge. Why is the agency now appointed as a supervisor to oversee the work of a bankruptcy manager? In point 6), the Agency shall collect and process statistical and other data of importance for the implementation of the bankruptcy procedure. Statistical data is collected by the Republic Statistics Authority, why would we have a parallel organ to collect these data? Point 7 - the Agency proposes national standards for the management of bankruptcy and code of ethics, which are adopted in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy proceedings. The previous law already said who brings those standards, that is, the ministry, or minister. What does the agency suggest now? Who guarantees the minister will agree to what the agency proposes? Will the minister accept it or, for reasons he disagrees, will he make some other standards and then bring them in? All this is saying that the agency is one body that has been imposed here for no reason, because all these jobs can be done by the Ministry of Economy and there is no need to burden the government's budget with this agency. Also, Article 5 contains something that is illogical and must not stand here, which is suitable for performing certain professional tasks under its jurisdiction, the agencies may hire domestic or foreign legal or physical persons. The Agency mainly does technical work, technical activities. She will now be hired by the home or party, professional, legal or natural persons to help her carry out these tasks. All those engagements have to be paid. From where? Who's going to pay for hiring foreign legal or physical persons to help the agency in her work and why are we setting up an agency that needs help from someone on the side at the beginning? Article 6 - Founding and agency work. This article says 30m dinars should be allocated to the establishment of the agency from the Serbian budget. These are assets that are not insignificant, are not small, which are important for this country, especially at the moment when they can be spent in a much smarter, rational way. We have roadblocks from raspberries producers, cherry producers and wheat producers, who are looking for some dinar more for their goods, for their products, and we are wasting millions of dinars on some agencies that are absolutely unnecessary. It also states that donations of domestic and foreign legal or natural persons can also be used for the establishment of the agency. How will the agency be objective and impartial if funds from donations of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons are used for the establishment of the agency, and the same is foreseen for the work of the agency? So the agency's work will also be financed from donations. This agency cannot be objective or impartial if it will receive money from natural persons, whether domestic or foreign. The last thing I want to point out is also the funding of the Agency's work -- the means of work are provided from the revenues the agency makes by performing the tasks of its jurisdiction. What are the constant revenues that the agency will have in order to finance and finance the number of people that will be prescribed by some statute, or by some act of the agency? It is not listed here; this statute of the agency will be adopted by the board of directors. The agency will likely have more employees who will have to receive their salaries regularly. What permanent income does the agency have to be able to service all these obligations? The agency doesn't have permanent income. The agency will probably charge professional exams, licenses, but this bankruptcy and business law... the bankruptcy manager defined by this law as an individual mainly refers to private enterprises. The bankruptcy in these companies in Serbia today is very few, or there will be none. The private won't let his company go bankrupt. He'd rather sell his assets and settle his debts than leave it to the state. So there won't be much interest in this. There will be no permanent income, and the agency can't ensure functioning this way as you've imagined it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4734	Thank you. The People's MP Nikola Novakovic has the word, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4735	My ladies of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's one good news: seven plus one and a half dinar, the roads are free, so much is worth the wheat today, and the cherries are next on the agenda. So the government reached an agreement and that's the end of the story. As for this little law of 15 members and the big words we've heard today, I have to notice that there's only one small agency, that it's no ballast to this people or to any government, or it's going to cost so much that it's gonna be impossible to meet, or we're going to poverty on another side. It's about keeping clean accounts in a set of laws that regulate bankruptcy proceedings, well, by the logic of things, and only improving the management of this procedure through administration, professional people called bankruptcy managers. You'll know exactly what anyone pays for, who's responsible for what and who's doing what. You'll know who's drinking and who's paying. It is certain that the good and quality work of bankruptcy managers, which also short deadlines on bankruptcy proceedings, will contribute to not only paying themselves, but also making a significant contribution to preserving and increasing the value of the assets of the debtors. It's one chance that didn't exist until today. I've been in law enforcement for 30 years, and it's been way out of line hanging out with retired accountants, Saldo Contisists, people who run bankruptcy proceedings in the '80s. There is neither quality nor success (of course, there are other examples), precisely because they were not licensed; and Mr Janjušević was mentioned. What I would see as the next step, and what's very important, and it's not that much about the agency itself, the licensing of bankruptcy managers, is the lack of an audit authority in the entire legal system. I suppose the government has that in mind and will come up with such a proposal. It wouldn't just be about control, of course, bankruptcy managers that are in some scale of importance, perhaps in the lower part. It would also be about control of privatisation, when we're going down to climb up, it would be about public income control, public expenditure, budget control. So, the Odator Court or already some other body or other organisation, as it exists in all countries in the world, which has an extremely important and significant function, should slowly also be able to see in our heads, above all, and then also in the papers the light of day and in our legal system. The second thing I heard was that it would be while I was talking about the bankruptcy bill, and it's not bad again, it's a database. The phone book, O.K.;he will record, as an official book, data on bankruptcy managers and a copy of such a book guarantee that man has a license. However, the database that would be available to all people working or having any connection to the bankruptcy process would be extremely significant. This would also bring the public, transparency of the work of bankruptcy managers, and procedures, judicial, bankruptcy, closer to anyone who is interested and definitely eliminates some mysticism that still exists here. Fellow MPs who were members of the Privatisation Committee received a list three weeks or a month ago (I think the Trade Court in Belgrade) of bankruptcy councils and bankruptcy directors, therefore, proposed by the judge. I think MP groups could look into it a little more carefully. There's a variety of coincidences, coincidences; I don't want to insinuate anything anymore, but, believe me, these tables are very interesting. This law should be passed without further and great stories. I understand the difficulties in which my colleagues are against this law, but the old Chinese proverb says – it's hard to catch a black cat in a tunnel, especially when it's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4736	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4737	Unlike the predecessors, I don't think this is a small and small agency and it costs a bit. It costs so much, and it's unnecessarily introduced, as if you would now provide another 20,000 tons of wheat for another dinar and to come to 10 dinars, as far as the villagers ask and how much they should pay. These congenital statements that G17 plus reached an agreement, and I'm guessing G17 plus reached an agreement, I guess, because I see you silent coalition partners, no Prime Minister, no Minister of Agriculture. There's an MP coming out and he's spreading his arms. Yesterday I saw to him the Deputy Prime Minister on the state agricultural good, not in the peasant field, where he explained the price of wheat surrounded by pals and police. Yesterday, you were supposed to talk about the price of wheat with farmers in the fields, not with the PKK. Thirty million dinars by the end of the year, which is 250 average salaries, you set aside for the Agency's life, for trusted jobs that are only point 1), 2) and 4) of Article 3, not to watch now, and plus there will be sponsorship and donations, dear God, from foreign legal and physical persons. You're gonna draw that money, and I think you're gonna be able to fund the budget through the bankruptcy agency. There's one thing I'm interested in about you law enforcement. Within a month, the board of directors, supervisors, and possibly the board of directors should be elected. It's all appointed by the government, at the proposal of the Minister of Economy. Now I'm interested, if the minister of justice, whom I greatly appreciate for how he talks to us in the Assembly and how he respects us here, could defend this law, I don't believe he can propose an agency director. Besides, that coalition partner who cares about money in the government won't even let him, I'm convinced of that. I am now interested in who will propose to the director of the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, who will propose members of the board of directors and board members; in order for the government to do something, someone has to propose. Since it's such a good law and there's going to be a revolution in bankruptcy... And I resent you for misrepresenting yourself about people who do certain affairs at the request of the court, even if they are 80 years old, because I don't see any obstacle here; if a man is professional and if someone who is authorized wants to hire him, he can hire him, the limitations of years, my dear sir, are still missing. Don't think an accountant with an 80-year-old life is less capable than an accountant who's 20 years old. Don't insult my older men. I think those with the most reason to approach the state and care for the state and concern for the economy. All of these were built and welcomed by experts on bankruptcy, privatisation experts, mixed-up experts who broke up their assets, shared as an age of treasure. The rest is now that we're here to discuss how to still hire foreign legal and physical persons, foreign states to help us finish what you haven't been able to finish in four years. We don't care about this law so much that we break a spear on it, whether we're against it or not. Neither are you. You want to convince me that the Serbian judiciary has fallen so far that the government needs through its public service to determine the bankruptcy directors. That's what I'm afraid of. If you're really right that the court needs to take one job and give it to the government, then we don't have justice anymore. The government is not impartial to me, the court is impartial to me, and the government is biased. No one obliges the government to be impartial. The court is impartial. If the court couldn't run this business, let's change the people who did it in court, let's change the whole line, let's change the whole system, let's make the court independent over the judicial budget, Mr. Minister. So this is what we say, the court is wrong, so we take one function at a time, we remove it from the Assembly, we transfer it under government control. Something doesn't suit me, it doesn't fit me as a democracy. When someone starts to tell me that the courts aren't ready, that they're not capable and that they can't, I always doubt the good intentions of the one who claims it. The judiciary is in your hands, I didn't drive thousands of judges away under parole in 2001 -- they were Milosevics. I didn't bring thousands of interns. We didn't vote in the sittings to have a judge elected by the same decision, and the same decision was chosen by the President of that court. That's what you who are in power again. Don't forget the judiciary. This was already the second attack on the prosecution, and two attacks were carried out on the judiciary. There's no one left to put in. The able-bodied people also drove that former regime into law enforcement, and you've already made a pogrom. That's why you're taking this away from the courts, so now the courts can't prosecute war crimes, so the stories that the court can't do this, they can't do it. What kind of state is that? We cannot prove now that the court can judge those accused by the UN tribunal. Then what right do we have to judge a man who steals an egg at the market? He can say – when you do not have enough expertise and skills and you are not so objective that you judge the most difficult criminals, that you have come after me, that you do not build a system to judge everyone, and not just us who have to feed our children by stealing. I thought it would stop the agency from changing power, because we've all attacked the formation of agencies, and now you're continuing unwittingly, agency for the agency. One hundred, two hundred, three hundred employees in the administration and when it is determined that there is not enough money in the budget for the administration, then low wages to those in the administration and then everyone able to escape from the administration, and who remains to run the state -- the one who hasn't found a place. Look who works in the ministries -- Serbia's most incompetent citizens and the most incompetent foreigners, or I'd say -- the most capable foreigners who come here to ruin everything for us. So with a little more attention, you who claim to want good Serbia, watch the laws they propose. This is not about who's in power, who's in opposition. It's about who wants good and who doesn't. That is why we tell you – we want Serbia well and we will support every good law. To call an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss this, and that you can't implement this at all and that you don't think to implement it, to stay for some other time, I don't see the point. Instead of dealing with the situation in Vojvodina right away, let's see what we do with the province's elections, what the electoral principle will be, can we call the Vojvodina Assembly instead of deciding whether to accept our amendments and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government and the selection of Councilors or not, you're going to tell us, and five days I'm waiting for one of you to say - we can't support it or we can't. Micovic, you've identified yourself with patients and you can throw wherever you want. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4738	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4739	Replica, I've been mentioned. With respect, to say this to a respected colleague, it's logical that people occasionally begin to look like what they're doing. Someone was a undertaker, you can tell by someone. In Ariel, the living are buried, just so you know. One more thing, Your Honor. There's a saying that's maybe as old as civilization, and it's said by Alexander the Great, when it comes to animals and animals, and it says, "I'd rather go to war and lead them with 100 donkeys than 100 lions to lead them by donkeys." Enough for the country to lead the donkeys, it's time to start taking her to the lions.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4740	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must advertise article 100. The Rules of Procedure, due to a violation of the reputation of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. It is a shame that the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic calls the donkey, and it is true that lions should take over the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4742	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the People's Messenger of Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers is on the agenda. It's an entirely unnecessary law. Namely, the SRS wants the problem of the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and the recovery of enterprises where this is possible as effectively and as best as possible. All those changes relating to improving the quality of bankruptcy managers, efficiency, speed of implementation, we support. However, when it comes to the establishment of an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, it is something that is completely unnecessary. One of the chiefs of the largest parliamentary group in power said a number of agencies would be abolished. It's really going that way. Apparently, they're not based on a legal attachment, but now from day to day there are more agencies. We expect that soon on the agenda before the MPs of the National Assembly will be the "lakasa" agency. You're probably asking me what this agency would be for. It would be an agency for chains, locks and salads, and it will have the authorities that this agency also has, which are the board of directors, the supervisory board and the director of the agency. In explaining the adoption of the Law on the Agency for the Register of Business Entities, the same thing was said – only to pass the law and suddenly foreign capital will push into the country of Serbia. You saw it didn't have anything to do with it. In fact, we need to create an economic environment here and run the factories we have, and in that case, the citizens of Serbia could expect a better life. One of the former ministers said the agency will not have a long life span. I hope this agency doesn't even come to life, that it won't get the necessary majority in the Assembly, so it won't start. It's been said that the bankruptcy process takes too long. I don't see any guarantee, based on this agency and the bankruptcy law, that this deadline could be reduced to something special. When it comes to the agency's affairs, you have seen that colleagues have commented that these issues that should be addressed by the agency are mostly technical. Basically, there's no need to set up such an agency. When it comes to funding for the establishment and operation of the agency, it is very interesting that funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. One of the predecessors said it wasn't big funds, it was a small agency. If it were just this agency, it might not be a big expense. But this is who knows which agency in line is being established. Of course it's going to be a big asset. Thirty million, which should be provided for the start of this agency's work, would indeed be much better to pay farmers for raspberries, wheat, cherry and other agricultural products, to stimulate them and give people a chance to live and support their families from their honest work. In addition, funds for the establishment of the agency are provided by grants, contributions and sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. This isn't a humanitarian organization. When it comes to humanitarian organisations, you know that there is then a certain number of people who are willing to make a donation, that is, to make funds for the work of those agencies or some other entities, but when it comes to this, there is an exclusive interest to be sought. It is possible that this agency should serve to make money that should come from a little bit of "proper" through this agency and that domestic natural or legal persons who would sponsor the work of this agency want to get something from it, have some benefit, or that they can influence these bankruptcy managers, even though we say here that the quality of their work will improve significantly. We in the SRS want the work of bankruptcy managers to be improved, that the system of implementation of the bankruptcy process is as effective as possible and as fast as possible. Control of the agency's work. Article 12 states: "The ministry responsible for the business of the economy carries out surveillance tasks over the work of the agency". It may be said that it is okay, but it is not said what will happen if the report is not accepted by the government, which are the consequences for the agency, whether the agency will be abolished, whether the director will be removed and what will happen next. When it comes to your statement, i.e. the story that a unique record is needed when it comes to bankruptcy managers, common standards and expertise, it is something that can be accepted, but it could certainly be regulated by the bankruptcy law. You have seen that a bankruptcy manager as an organ of bankruptcy is mentioned in Article 9 and that in the next dozen members, who can be a bankruptcy manager, which are the conditions for setting him up, what are the conditions for impeachment and how he should operate. So maybe with one or two other members of the law, the problem could be fully regulated and the funds needed for the agency could be avoided, for the start of 30 million dinars. The agency will, you say, provide funds with their work. The provision of funds by means of its work means the collection of the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, which means that there will be an even greater imposition and pressure on firms over which a bankruptcy procedure is to be conducted, or perhaps restore them and put them into service.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4744	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. He's not here. The People's MP Darko Glisic has the word, and let the MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, it is interesting, and this has already been noted by my predecessors, that this bill, which should be explained by the minister of economy, is explained by the minister of justice. It seems to me that in one symbolic way, since we don't have an economy minister yet, the government shows that we may not have a business either, so if we don't have an economy, then we don't need a minister. And maybe it's a good thing we don't have a minister; it's better not to have him than to be like that minister who was before him, who showed up behind this pay phone, who made a lot of businesses unhappy that it couldn't be used as numbers. The draft bankruptcy law and the draft law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers should be in a certain way, in terms of the reorganisation in Article 1. The proposal for a bankruptcy law is designed to allow these companies to be reorganised, to bring that degree to be saved in such a way. However, given everything that follows this law, the Serbian government and the way it's all come to terms, it seems to me that those chains and locks that have been talked about so much will remain at these factories, and with this law, it seems to me that they will be strengthened more and more. It would be good, and in Article 6 of the Law that we have previously discussed is foreseen which areas can go bankruptly, sometimes it would not be bad if the bankruptcy procedure could be carried out over the Republic Assembly. Then we would not have the case as in the previous session that MPs who have appeared under this law and discussed, who have held a letter for us after this payphone, throw over several benches, vote, and they themselves do not know how many cards they have in their pocket and such MPs to tell us about factories, bankruptcy, workers' rights and the recovery of our economy. The Serbian Radical Party advocates breaking up with such a practice once, breaking up with the way we've been working so far and really trying to get out of this situation in one real way. It seems to me that you will only further complicate the situation with this agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers and that it will be like when you have shared certain resolutions, so the licenses for the licensing of those who will carry out the bankruptcy will also be shared on the key. We will certainly have one such procedure, so let's say we have cases of those who have ruined some factories and led them to the fact that they may now be in the same state as they are. From the experience in the middle I come from, I know that it was a condition for you to be a member of the Democratic Party to be a bankruptcy manager, let's say "Duvan" and some other factories. Now it seems to me that you will share it, since there are more of you, that there will probably be those who boasted that they have agreed with the peasants that the wheat is seven dinars, although its market price is 22 cents on the world market, which is about 13 dinars, and you represent it as success. Yes, I found that information this morning that the wheat on the world stock market is 22 cents. So we will also have such a case that perhaps even the representatives of these political parties are bankrupt managers, these experts, so it seems to me that neither Bogoljub Karic, who has now joined you, will help you to get the economy that has really fallen out of the bottom of it. Bogoljub Karic may be a good candidate for the Minister of Economy, and you may be stalling with the appointment of the Minister of Economy. Maybe he's your candidate, maybe you've already agreed to it, maybe that three-way coalition, Tadic between these two that start with K, Karic and Kostunica, maybe Bogoljub Karic is your candidate for something like that. It seems to me that you will show that from the very beginning you have been on the same political line and that in the first next parliamentary elections, this little difference remains in your favor to move on to the opposite side and finally the SRS will begin to solve these problems itself, which are accumulated. The Serbian Radical Party, if ever again, I doubt, will ever win anyone who is not its candidate, will never call him a donkey, as those who have just appeared for this assembly speaker and their own candidate; let's call their candidate, but the president of the Republic a donkey after this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4746	The word has a folk MP, Petar Cvetkovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4747	Ladies and gentlemen, a previous MP, a distinguished colleague, said and remained alive. His discussion has nothing to do with the law, and I object to the chairman's obligation to warn him. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure I'm not going to advertise, I'm just pointing out. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is responsible for the MPs, in the interest of the citizens, to participate in the state's discussion and to give arguments for and against some law, and not to bring up, I will not say too strong a word, some total nebulosis. To me, gentlemen, you won't get bored, nor will you get me out of balance because I learned to throw myself at me and I won't mind at all. As far as the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers is concerned, the bill is a normal follow-up to the previous bankruptcy act. I, and not only myself, all MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the ruling coalition pointed to the advantages of the new draft bankruptcy law. We have also had support from other parliamentary clubs, or parties that do not participate in the coalition. This law is a normal trail of the previous law and it is necessary to regulate the procedure, the way and the conditions for bankruptcy managers by this law. Today, the applicable Law on Force alignment, bankruptcy and liquidation (and its first adopted form was from 1989, with changes from 1993 to 1996) not more detailedly regulated matter related to profession, standards and the status of bankruptcy managers. This law on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants is exactly what is achieved and proposes a modern law that is in line with the government's intensity and aspirations and the ruling coalition to speed up economic development and integration into normal market flows and the competition. Why exactly the bank manager licensing agency? Why doesn't a court like he's done before, on some unconfirmed criteria? I will remind you that this led to the situation that there were people who conducted dozens or twenty bankruptcy proceedings, or were able to be bankruptcy managers in just as many companies. It is illusory that they will, in such a case, lead their business as a bankruptcy manager responsibly and in the interest of debtors, creditors and states. There were no firm criteria, so there could have been various abuses. It is not necessary to abuse, but as soon as there are no criteria, then it is left to individuals, whether it was a judge in a trade court or a bankruptcy, that, without clearly established criteria, the position of persons who could but did not have the appropriate professional training and experience to be bankruptcy managers. In practice, there was a jag for the place of bankruptcy manager in companies where there was anything else to sell or perhaps privatize from bankruptcy, usually privatized in an illegal way, so by spilling from social or state capital into private pockets; and where there was no capital, or fixed assets that could be sold or quickly privatised, there was no interest, so trade courts and bankruptcy councils were in great trouble to find a bankruptcy manager. This draft law provides for criteria, procedures, and therefore it is much more correct to set up an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, that this business is not done by courts or by the ministry, by business or by any other ministry within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because industry, i.e. business and business entities, their business and functioning must be predominantly subject to certain economic laws, i.e. competition and market conditions. Therefore, the Authority, which shall be able to organise and carry out the tasks, start from carrying out and prescribing examinations for the insolvency manager, through the issuance, renewal or withdrawal of the licence for the conduct of the business of the bankruptcy manager, the exercise of supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers, the collection and processing of statistical and other data, and the proposal of national standards for the management of bankruptcy and ethics codes, as well as any other tasks, in accordance with the law and the Statute. This agency is a constitutional category and according to the law, because according to the current constitution, which is the intensity and all modern constitutions in Europe (i.e. I do not say that our current constitution is modern, it is necessary to change it), the agencies can only be established under the law and it is necessary to be responsible founders, in this case in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and the supervision of the Agency's work under this law will be carried out by the Government. This will make all abuses largely impossible, and those problems that have existed so far will be avoided, as I said, that individuals, either in the bankruptcy council or through judges of the trade court, can decide without any firm arguments, or there will be no arbitrary decision. Agency bodies are classic and these are, like other agencies established by law, board of directors, supervisory board, director. These solutions are in line with the modern legal principles and the modern constitutions of European states. I therefore expect that, as DSS and all other parties in this House who care about real economic recovery in this country, to real development, to really improve living standards, to participate in global market and economic flows, to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4748	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Miroslav Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet another law before us, another prodigal of the DOS regime, conceived during Djindjic and Zivkovic, and with minor changes presented to this parliament by the regimes of Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. For a wonderful miracle, whenever people are to be struck, workers, all Democrats gather, forget everything they said about each other in the past months, forget all the accusations and say that coalition partners don't like them, but that the law is extremely good. You don't have to argue anymore whose law this is and who will be responsible for what this law will bring to Serbia, because neither the MPs of the SRS nor I think Serbian citizens make any difference between you anymore, because we know that you are all the same. You say it's a good law. I know the law is good for you, that it will be good for your bankruptcy managers, but the question is whether it's good for the citizens of Serbia, whether it's good for workers who strike daily in front of the government building, whether this law will do them good too. The question is whether this is a law that will contribute to the creation of new jobs, whether this is a law that will finally bring us into Europe. How many unemployed people need to be in Serbia to get into this Europe, and I urge you to finally tell us all the conditions, that we already know what we need to meet to finally enter that Europe. Through the law on the agency for licensing of bankruptcy managers and the law on the bankruptcy of the DOS regime, where I am counting you all, will perform the third, last stage of privatisation, so-called. silent privatisation. First, that is, the way you DOSs like to say, you first sold the best and most profitable companies in Serbia in suspicious tenders. None of these companies work better than they did before privatisation. The number of workers in these companies is, as a rule, lower, workers' salaries, and worst of all, production has dropped in most of these companies. The second round of privatisation was carried out through auctions, where companies with a small number of employees and large business premises were first sold, followed by workers from these companies through a social programme, with minimum severances being evicted to the street. How precisely you determined the initial value of the company on these bids best tells the fact that a good part of the company is sold at 10, 20 or even 50 times the price of the initial company. In the end, for the companies that survived these two rounds of privatisation, you prepared a third, probably unpassed circle, and from that circle a little bit that the company would pull out. The first objection to this law is that he, as well as many of the laws that you bring here, is not made to the state of the country, but as usual it was more important for you to meet various NGOs, the Centre for Liberal Democratic Studies and others that are not difficult to satisfy, instead of taking a proper look at the situation in the country and trying to bring good to the citizens and the economy of Serbia. Unfortunately, I have to realize that this law will not solve the problems that have arisen over the past four years, and you've talked a lot about them. One of the most important problems is that neither the bankruptcy law nor the bankruptcy agency law is limited to the number of enterprises where at the same time one person will be able to be a bankruptcy manager. In the previous period, there have been many cases in practice that some people close to the DOS regime and Mr. Kljajevic, the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, have simultaneously served as a bankruptcy manager in more than 20 enterprises and have not given up fees to work in these companies at any time, and some have not visited one in three months. I will also remind you that the most successful bankruptcy manager of the DOS regime was Mr. Janjusevic; he seems to have had the special knowledge that you have now foreseen for all bankruptcy managers under this new bill. If by any chance this proposal is accepted, it will certainly lead to the formation of a special caste of bankruptcy managers, who will burn and shine in Serbian economy and decide on the fate of the company in the way Mr Janjusevic, Kolesar and other DOS and DS champions have done so so far. The agencies for the licensing of bankruptcy managers under this proposal shall be the Management Board, Director and Supervisory Board. The board of directors consists of the president and four members, of course appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister responsible for business affairs, which we do not have. The Supervisory Board consists of the president and two members, appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister responsible for business affairs, which we do not have. Of course, the director of this agency also appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the minister responsible for business affairs, whom, as I have already said, we do not have. The law also provides for the supervision of the Agency's work to be carried out in Article 12. And, of course, not to be confused, and this job will be done by the Ministry of Business Affairs, because I guess that the Ministry of Industry and the Government control and the Management Board, and the Director and Supervisory Board of the License Agency, were not enough, but it was also necessary to strengthen the government's control of the agency and the dependence of the Agency from the Government, or from the current regime. When things are set up like this, it makes sense to wonder why you even need an agency, why the costs are even being spent. And let me also remind you that the cost of 30 million dinars in the SRS' opinion is not small; perhaps for G17 plus they are. It was simply that the government could do all these jobs alone without forming additional agencies. In addition to all these concrete objections to the proposed legal text, the SRS, as you know, has a principled remark. We have already advocated the establishment of agencies and, for these reasons, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the proposed laws. Finally, I would ask the chairman to comply with Article 82(2). The Rules of Procedure determine the quorum, because it is obvious that there are no working conditions and that currently not one third of the MPs are present.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4750	Please, as required by the Rules of Procedure, let's check the quorum. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. A five-minute break to check the quorum. [[After a break.]] It's been five minutes. We're continuing our work. Please make sure we have the quorum before the work begins. I ask the MPs to insert their parliamentary cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system found that 89 MPs were present in the hall. The People's MP Miroslav Zivkovic has the word, and let MP Zoran Mašić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4752	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, the G17 plus has already declared themselves on these laws which are on the agenda of this session, by making it clear that they will vote in favour of the bill on bankruptcy proceedings. It makes sense that they will also vote in favour of the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. The reasons that led us to this were already repeated in the good works during the debate on the bankruptcy law and during the debate so far. However, for some clarification, I will repeat some of the most important. Almost all of us agreed that the previous law that is now being applied, the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, led to the bankruptcy procedure being primarily ineffective, trom, slow. I'll remind you that the average bankruptcy procedure lasts 7.3 years. During that time, if it ends at all, many negative things have happened. When I say negative, I mean abuse of bankruptcy, as one mentioned repeatedly, through so-called. silent privatisation. That's what I was talking about when I explained the reasons why G17 plus would vote for the bankruptcy bill. To a good extent, responsibility and guilt for such a way of carrying out bankruptcy proceedings are found primarily in the fact that bankruptcy managers were unprofessional, unskilled. I still don't want to deepen whether there were any deliberate abuses. The problem is that the law on forced alignment, bankruptcy and liquidation did not regulate this matter in detail. If you don't have any detailed regulated matter, then you're referring to practice. The practice of the court was diverse. This led to the introduction of some institutes that do not exist in the law itself. The bankruptcy directors, supported by the bankruptcy judge, used this extensively. I'd also like to say that the courts themselves made up lists of bankruptcy directors. The courts themselves set criteria for being a bankruptcy manager. What's worse, the courts themselves have deprived control of the work of bankruptcy managers. All of this led to the fact that in some courts we had one bankruptcy administrator running two, three, or more bankruptcy proceedings. Whether they were similar or so professional and irreplaceable, I leave them to some other authorities to judge. I would like to mention another numbered fact that in Belgrade 100 of the most significant bankruptcy proceedings are conducted by 30 bankruptcy managers. In Zajecar, this relationship is somewhat different and more favourable, but not the results of which these bankruptcys end. All of this led to the need for a new legislation, which will, above all, be based on European standards. The government of the Republic of Serbia is doing so with these proposals. We've already said that the role of bankruptcy managers has been significantly changed. First of all, the new bankruptcy law stipulates that a bankruptcy administrator can only be a highly educated person who has a large previous dispensation of three years and, most importantly, who has a license. That's where we come up with the fact why we need this law. It is necessary to introduce an institute into this country's legal system that will, above all, authorise the bankruptcy managers who are being tried, granted licences, supervised by the work of bankruptcy managers and, most importantly, will be authorised to withdraw, or renew the licence to bankruptcy managers. Thus, in this way, the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers becomes the kind of regulator that provides, above all, professionalism in the work of bankruptcy managers. I don't want to talk about this any further, since all the arguments have been made and that's why I'm just repeating it one more time, the G17 plus will support this law on the bankruptcy agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4753	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Masic, and let the MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4754	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you from the ruling coalition are once again promoting a law that implies increasing public spending and needless spending of budget funds. And it is today that the roads in Serbia are blocked because of the protests of peasants, because this government has so far played them and does not want to pay them the real price of wheat. Here in Parliament we are talking about how to set up another one in a series of agencies that, above all, represent direct budget users, i.e. Consumers. If we know that the Agency for the Registration of Business Entities has been established, for which registration is planned to spend 100 million dinars, for the establishment of this agency according to the proposed project, we need to spend 30 million dinars and for the agency that we will set up during this session of parliament, which is the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, we need a new 90 million dinars, if we add it together, we can conclude that it is about 220 million dinars or 30 million euros from the Agency's budget. I'm asking you from the ruling coalition and the government -- are we really so rich today that we can establish this number of agencies, while at the same time the government is offering the peasants a dinar for the dying of pounds of wheat, which is, I think, you will agree, and the peasants in particular, really misery and humiliation, while at the same time not promising how much wheat will be bought and at what cost. Today we heard from Mr. Novakovic, if the news is correct, that some sort of agreement was reached. However, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of this National Assembly, I must inform you that we were at a meeting some less than a month ago, where representatives of all parliamentary groups were present, unanimously decided that the price of wheat of this generation would be nine plus one and a half dinar of premium. Such a memo went to both the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture. I sincerely hope that meeting such a request from the Committee on Agriculture would satisfy the peasants and we would not have what we have today. But we'll see how the wheat thing goes on. The proposer of this law explains that the establishment of an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers will improve the quality and standards of the profession of the bankruptcy manager, further, monitor and control their work and ensure continued professional training, and the agency should be a specialised, professional and independent institution. This may all be well imagined, but realistically, under the current circumstances, I find it difficult to achieve. If it is true that by adopting this new bankruptcy law, another tens of thousands of businesses in Serbia will go into bankruptcy, then, according to the lawmakers, the two laws we are discussing these days, effectively need to be established by the university to educate and educate so many qualified bankruptcy managers. The economy ministry has been without a minister for two months, and the government is doing nothing to resolve it, while boasting that it is carrying out successful reforms in all areas of economic and social activity, only, unfortunately, citizens fail to notice that they live better. I suggest that the Prime Minister proposes to the National Assembly of Ministers for Economy as soon as possible, and the Ministry of Economy will do whatever it is you propose to do to the agency. It is certainly necessary to introduce the mandatory submission of the expert examination and the mandatory licensing of bankruptcy managers and the making-up of the register of bankruptcy managers. When, hopefully, better and richer times come and when the state is truly aware of entering the European Union, to come closer to the more serious formation of these and some other agencies, which I must admit exist in Western developed countries, but in the situation we are in, and above all in the economic situation, I think the establishment of something like this is just an attack on any modest budget and standard of our taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4755	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. He's not there. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, because of Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4756	Some general explanations and universal reasons for the adoption of such and other laws by the ruling coalition could be taken into account that we listen to from different representatives of the proposings from day to day during the meeting of this assembly; what is common is that the conditions and requirements of the World Bank, international institutions, the European Economic Community, the European Union are the most prevailing. It is quite indicative that there is a continuity between the previous and this government in reasons, which is that, always with reason as the most serious reason, all transition countries have done what we do, there is no doubt that such legal proposals are one of the conditions of Serbia's integration into the international, or European community and international institutions. Gentlemen, let's realistically consider whether these international institutions are really proposing the kind of solutions you're offering. If nothing else, then we have an example from the recent past, where we have made sure that the destructive functioning of the institutions located in the executive government is what the bureaus and agencies are like. Most of the problem, the uncertainty has just been linked to the previous government, stemmed from these institutions called agencies, especially those they call bureaus. At that time, as we have heard most of it, it is something that is modern, operational, rational, cheap for Serbian citizens, and time and results have shown that just as we Serbian radicals have warned when the government's law was first passed here, when we said there were no essential foundations for the formation of agencies. Why? Because logic says, if you want to make something out of it, then you want to divide the information over that newly formed institution, and in this case to the agency, divide it into two parts. One part of this is the Ministry of Economy's jurisdiction, and the other part is the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction. If they meet or cross the jurisdiction of the two ministries, I guess we have so much sense to learn from previous mistakes. It's something that's literally at the beginning a big problem. We have an agency here that licenses bankruptcy managers, an agency that's apparently dislocated from the Resoring Ministry. This bankruptcy manager will work alongside a bankruptcy judge and a congregation of trustees. It will be controlled by a part of the bankruptcy judge, and one part by the Ministry of Business through this agency. How? By its further possibility of work will be conditioned by possessing or not owning that licence. As for that other general argument that all countries of transition have been going through this, that's true. You must also respect the specificities of Serbia. None of those countries had sanctions. In any of these countries, the economy was not subject to sanctions. We are in a situation where, after years of sanctions, we have a weakened economy. Secondly, none of these countries had crisis headquarters. When compared, the damage caused by the sanctions on Serbia's economy is small, almost negligible compared to the one caused by the crisis headquarters. If we have two evils that have reached Serbia's economy, we, in this way, are going to pass bankruptcy law and agency, we will never solve this problem. What does the international community want from us? What's the World Bank looking for? He's asking us to fix the problems quickly. How quickly are we going to solve this problem this way? Because of the very fact that they are under direct or indirect control by the executive authority, the bankruptcy administrators will work on a speedy procedure for some of their interests, especially for the sake of the ruling coalition's interest. During the term of office of the previous government, especially when Prime Minister Vlahovic was headed by the Resoring Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, we had the opportunity to see how the accelerated procedure was going. We have witnessed the fact that just now the rehabilitation and the rehabilitation program were a way to privatise a company as soon as possible, by devalued, not reorganise, not try to save, but devalue it, so that, after the accelerated procedure of the Privatisation Agency, the company would be sold into devastation. If we compare the work of the previous government and these, the difference is only, obviously, in names. The then minister, the famous, civil or civil person, Vlahovic, told us from this pay phone that we from the SRS are, as an opposition party, against progress, against the recovery of the Serbian economy, against integration into Europe. Similar words were echoed by a presidential candidate for the joint coalition. Now, the minister, seeing your mistakes, and apparently having a guilty conscience, says there are a lot of gaps in these bill proposals, but because of the party's discipline he will vote for this law, as the presidential candidate goes to the public of Serbia and says, "Puj dots don't apply," what I was saying about entering Europe, I cheated on you, entering Europe in 2011. You are aware and do not follow this example, you will file an account for the citizens of Serbia. You, like previous ministers, will have to go as citizens to informative talks, and after these informative talks, everything and everything will be known about you, and those who have persuaded you will not even look at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4757	Minister Stojkovic, then Mr Vlahovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4758	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have answered the line for one reason only. I believe what the previous speaker said was a joke. I guess it doesn't make a difference between me and my predecessor just in appearance and name. There's one thing I also want to tell him. For 58 years, I have lived honorably in Belgrade, and so I intend to continue living. So make sure he doesn't call me for any information talks, no matter who comes to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4759	Replica, authorised representative of DS Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4760	Yesterday, we spoke of political populism as the main feature of a political party. Obviously, this speaker is least used to improve legal proposals and to improve the implementation of the law to the people of Serbia, for citizens to have a better standard of living when the processes leading to the recovery of the Serbian economy are implemented. But when you have an empty story about a political strategy, then it's the easiest thing to reach for political pulsism, for demagogue passwords and tell one and the same story we've been hearing for years back. Also, the non-information virus is spreading dizzyly through this congregation. Apparently, prominent colleagues from the political group who had their presidential candidate in the runoff have not yet learned that Boris Tadic is not a presidential candidate but a president of the Republic of Serbia, because Serbian citizens knew that they recognized the real values and voiced to the candidate who could introduce Serbia into the European Union. So, my message is that those chains and locks, which you spoke with audibly between the two electoral rounds, apply the methodology and technique of a Resavan copying school from another candidate who used it in the first election round, that those chains and locks you put on the factory gates of the '90s, when you shared power with the SPS, to remind the people of Serbia what it looked like to put chains and locks in the 1990s, and not that here what you've done badly, you've transferred to the government since 2000 or, in turn, to this government. All that has been done since 2000 is an attempt to correct the mistakes you have made by the wrong economic and any other policy in this area to the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4761	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, then Mr. Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4762	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every time Mr. Vlahovic raises his tone, I get pretty scared and I think – he seems to be back in power, thinking he's going to shut down the factories again, reintroduce bankruptcy in Serbia, as it was in the previous period, but he won't. Our people are smart, and they won't. Now let me tell you something about what he was talking about. He insulted the intelligence of not only the MPs, but all the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Vlahovic, what year are you talking about when the factories are closed, and in which authority was the SRS involved? Was it about 1992, when Miodrag Perisic was Deputy Prime Minister? He's a member of the DS, not the SRS, Mr. Vlahovic. Do you have amnesia? What year are you talking about? From 1998 to 2000, in difficult years, almost no bankruptcy has been opened and no factory for three euros has been sold and 500,000 people have been fired, as in your time. These are the results and consequences of your work and the failed DS policy, the destruction of Serbia, and the deliberate, deliberate destruction of Serbia. Enough of these titoistic stories that someone from 10 or 15 years ago was guilty of everything, so when you no longer know what to say in particular, they took part there with them. We didn't, but you did. We're not ashamed of what we've been involved in, so we're proud of it. If you've got something against us, you've had five years to chase us and what you've done, you're nothing, and you have nothing to say to us. For five years we've been listening to hollow stories, the inventions of the worst kind -- there will be sanctions, we for Europe, we for this, we for that. It's a good Europe for you. We were introduced visas for Romania on the first day after your candidate's victory, I hear Bulgaria will also be on Monday. We'll have to have some more visas when we leave Belgrade. You're talking about chains and locks. Well, you made chains and locks in Serbia along with the one that supported you. You closed those factories. Now we wait for you to open them, we wait for you and the one who spoke of them, the one who is just like you, who supported you. Let's see how you get the chains and the locks off. You're talking about demagogy and populism. I didn't listen to you all the time in the O.R., but you can see I listened very carefully. Well, the worst is your witness, the most pointless. For God's sake, you're saying something concrete. What is it -- a concrete kidnapping, a concrete robbery of Serbian citizens, for two or three euros take everything that comes in. It's the only thing that's concrete. Everything else is for you - we will provide new jobs, and that is for the President of the Republic. And you know it's a lie and nonsense. Who can you tell in the campaign, when all the media are openly cheering for that side. Where are these new jobs, when are these new jobs going to be, by winning your presidential candidate? Where will they be, in which country, in which place? One more thing, when you talk about who did what and how he did, you have contributed very much to tourism in a significant branch of Serbia's economy. No one in Serbia had any idea where the Marshall Islands and the Sail Islands were until you came to power. I ask that it be tourist news, but because of the citizens of Serbia, the manatee of the further thieving, the withdrawal and taking of the money to Sheikele, the Marshall Islands, and I don't know where, but take away those chains and locks. Four minutes, please finish. If you don't take them off in a month, two or three, you'll see. We can give you four years, only more chains and locks, but in three months you will see how much dissatisfaction the people will be and what the citizens of Serbia will have to tell you about your good, magnificent and concrete policies, and this 82, as you said earlier, commended us by your fellow MP, the lion, will wait for it, and you will see how they will react in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4763	Replica, Mr. Obradović, pa replica, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4764	I am reporting on behalf of the SPS on behalf of Mr Vlahovic, because it is not the first time in this assembly that we hear from Mr Vlahovic that whenever he runs out of arguments about a story and some claim about a pay phone, he talks about past times and, of course, he speaks negatively of the SPS in this context. I must tell Mr Vlahovic and the other MPs who don't know it - we Socialists are not ashamed of the period when we were doing, alone or with others, the government at the republican level. Unlike Mr Vlahovic, when we talk about those years, which were difficult for Serbia, we do not forget to mention what was happening back then at the premises of the former Yugoslavia: the sanctions of the United Nations since 1992, wars in the environment, Serbia received a million refugees, was bombed because it did not accept that NATO troops were walking Serbia and because it did not accept that after three years the Albanian people declared themselves in a referendum on their independence. We are talking about this with pride and we accept the guilt that sanctions have been imposed for helping the Serbian people through the Drina, but it would be good, fair, fair, human, but obviously not MPs, to say why Mr. Vlahovic and the Democratic Party were mentioned negatively in this period, because in December 2003, the people assessed the government negatively, gave it a unit from that work. Eighty percent of Serbian citizens said negatively because the number of unemployed in Serbia has exceeded one million; because the production rate is less than in years of sanctions and isolation; because secret accounts have appeared in the SEEs, the Caymans and other islands; because government representatives, not considering the conflict of interest, have done everything and everything to make their accounts rich; because since 2000, privatisation has been done, bankruptcy has been introduced into a significant part of large enterprises (at the time we mentioned "Sartid", "Ineks", "Beko", "Centrotekstil"); because large businesses have been bought for minor sums because of the privatisation of 1,000 businesses for two million euros. I admit we sold 49% of Telecom for 1.6 billion marks. All that has to be said. The people said in the December elections, and it remains that the state authorities, related to the financial operations of the previous government, are finishing their jobs, because we heard from the Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, that this is done, so that the public of Serbia finds out what they were doing and what they were doing, and then that part of the job to take over the judicial authorities, so that we can see exactly what they did and what they were guilty of.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4765	Replica, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4766	The people said theirs in December and confirmed it in June. As you know, the Democratic Party's presidential candidate today is the president of the Republic of Serbia and has received 1,700,000 votes. I know that it was difficult for voters in Serbia to resist all the populist promises that were lightly spilled in front of them during the December pre-election campaign, and I know that voters had been able to realise for six months after that how cheated they were on all those promises made in the pre-election campaign for parliamentary elections. In response to the insult of their intelligence, you received an election result in June, in the recently held presidential elections, where the Democratic Party's presidential candidate won 1,700,000 votes and won convincingly. I've never used this phone booth to send public populist passwords. On the contrary, I've always reasoned on any subject that's from my field of economics. When I say that chains and locks in Serbia's economy have been placed in the 1990s, then I can support that in an argument. In 2000, we had a million employees who were in fact jobless; a million employees who either did not receive a salary or did not regularly contribute to pension insurance, so they do not have a work experience. And not to mention that one whole army of over 350,000 people was on some forced vacation, a category that was invented during the conduct of "great" economic policy in the 1990s. These are your results, the results of your government that you've achieved working together with the SPS, and you shouldn't be ashamed of that. So chains and locks were put in during the '90s. Since 1995, the SPS has had power either in the coalition with the SRS, either as it comes to silent support from the SRS. (President: Time. I ask you that the consequences, that you simply accept these irrefutable facts, and that you keep promising this speaker that your time is coming, and here I have watched for the last three years as it comes and never comes. We will now see after these elections what the election rating will be, most of the other parties, most of them in all the elections in the last few years. You'll see how the ratings go down.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4767	The word has been given by the People's MP Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Wolf, before you begin, I ask you and the other speakers to call on a member and respect the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what the irrefutable facts of those who are the greatest forgers look like, if I didn't say the most difficult word, maybe Serbian and Serbian citizens would be more likely to hear – liars. Those who speak of "indisputable facts" say -- since 1995, with silent or direct support, the SPS government. Why are you making this up? How can you not be ashamed? In 1995, when Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic were in prison and your leader at Mira Markovic's canabet? How can you not be ashamed? Is that an irrefutable fact? Were they in prison at the time or supported by the Socialist Party Government of Serbia? Why are you making this up? You're not ashamed to go out for a pay phone and say it's an irrefutable fact. You tell someone about the ratings, what it's gonna be and what it's gonna be. No, you're going to grow ratings because you're going to rob a little more, like, two or three months as much as you can. You've had a bit of a run-in in the past, so now you're going to continue for two or three months, so you're going to get more. Don't worry about the ratings. And in these elections, both percentageally and absolutely, we got more votes than in parliamentary ones, where we had the most convincingly, almost three times as much as you, from your four political parties together. You didn't beat us now. We congratulated that victory, unlike you, who, when you're losing your hips, you're struggling, you're moaning, and we congratulate you at ten o'clock in the evening and we say we lost the election, but we didn't lose them to you, but we lost them to everyone who united against us, and the mobsters who gave money at the Daka restaurant in downtown Belgrade were united, millions of euros were given by criminals and mobsters to win the SRS candidate and candidate of the people. The color of all criminals... When you talk about those who are in prison, there's poverty in prison, criminals are either in power or rule the country because they're the richest, like sponsors the greatest. Thirdly, Mr. Vlahovic, don't worry about whether our time is coming or not, because for three years you have humiliated the National Assembly here, insulted the MPs of the SRS for almost four years, we have listened to insults, screams and shit from this pay phone every day -- the 23 of you, who voted for you. And now, Mr. Vlahovic, after three years of your successful reign, we are 82. In the presidential elections in the first round, regardless of the fraud you launched, called Karic, Mr Nikolic received a higher percentage than the party won in the parliamentary elections, only 800,000 people came out less, 30.7%, and the party received 27.5%. In the second round, Tomislav Nikolic received a new half a million votes without the support of any media, without the support of any NGO, Mr. Vlahovic. Let that concern you, for these are the voices of the common people, the poor people. And your voices are the voices of the decent world, because unlike you, we think that all Serbian citizens are decent, but these are the people you falsely intimidated and who are now going to see how you invented, lied, cheated and forged everything. Be assured, in September and October you will see, Mr. Vlahovic, and you and this man who already thinks he is Marshal Tito, how you will pass the elections and what will be the will of the citizens. Is someone most of the time - I haven't noticed that we've been second often, we're usually the first, and even when we're others we can congratulate and, unlike you, we won't crash and burn the Assembly or television. That's why we're always the first in the people, and be sure it stays that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4769	First Minister Stojkovic, then Mr. Angelkovic, then a replica afterwards, Mr. Vlahovic. Please, an hour's break determines the president between 10.00 and 1800 hours, respect the Rules of Procedure and I don't think it's correct to call on time. I warned the speakers earlier, and they didn't respect the weather, so be kind to your basic decency. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4770	Dear ladies and other MPs, after these replicas, I don't have much time left, and I will answer only two things that are being placed here as a problem. They talk about agencies all the time. I don't think it's the agency's problem, since it replaces a large number of certain state authorities, because the state must have some bodies that need to function, and whether they used to call it an office or something, it's a matter of discussion. I think the agencies themselves, if set up well, have more independence and can function better than those classical state bodies that need to implement the decisions of senior authorities. So, it should be borne in mind that if they do their job that needs to be done, as is the case with this agency, tomorrow the professional organisations, having a complete nomenclature, will be able to do this job that we are now predicting the agency. As for those remarks about collecting data and controlling and allegedly taking part of the court's affairs, I'd like to point out only one thing, there's no reason to move on to a field of doubt as to why it's done, because it's very simple. Certain data are collected, bankruptcy managers are monitored to detect possible failures, weaknesses, improve programmes for the operation of bankruptcy managers and provide better quality exams and those programmes that should be mastered by bankruptcy managers. In this situation and recording these problems and these data, forming valid standards and how they will be relevant to this register, to those people who deal with this matter and who are interested in it. Now, that's an explanation for these two questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4771	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Angelkovic, then the replica, and you by the Rules of Procedure. Don't worry about anything, be nice, just take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4772	Just to make things right, there are those of us who were MPs in 1994, so we know the real truth of who was in power. The truth is, it's for example. Mr Radulovic, vice-president of the government, was elected to the previous DS Vice-President, is true that the senior official of the DS, and I even think he was Vice-President, therefore, for the economy, elected Mr Djukic as Minister of Privatisation and for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, there are other names. Therefore, of course, to a significant extent high-ranking officials of the Democratic Party in 1994 and 1998 were participating in power; and not only members of the DS, but also of the New Democracy, which was in power from 2000 to 2004. The other thing is about these 1,700,000 votes. Don't boast too much with 1,700,000 votes, because we left the government with 1,800,000 votes, because it's a relative thing to you. If we hadn't changed the law, we wouldn't have had a president with 1,700,000 votes, he wouldn't have been elected, because recently, a year and a half ago, we had 2,100,000 votes for Mr. Kostunica, who wasn't elected president of the Republic. Mr. Tadic has been elected. We congratulate him, but 1,700,000 votes are not exactly commendable, and it's not for much praise that you've done a revolutionary act. In the end, the same thing for the truth, you know, I was in that fund for the development of the Republic of Serbia the day before yesterday, and I asked what the sources of funding were, for example, the Fund. last year. The director told me very simply that last year, the main source of funding was the collection of revenue from the sale of Telecom. I asked what that amount was; so we picked up in 2003 based on the flat assets of Telecom's sales, which means, which was paid to the Development Fund, a billion dollars. So, a billion dollars only last year, so much of the state of Serbia has been harvested on the basis of the flat funds from Telecom sales, check it out exactly, and you sold all the companies for smaller funds and spent it all on consumption and December elections last year. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4773	According to Article 81. I'm giving the Rules of Procedure a break of 15.00 hours. At the same time, I'm using the opportunity to say, "Dinar, not dollars," "I'm sorry, it's official." [[After break - 15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again a good day. We continue to work on the second item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the agency for licensing of bankruptcy managers. I ask that we continue to establish the quorum and ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has confirmed that 85 MPs are present in the hall. The People's MP, Sredoje Mihajlov, has the word, and let the National MP Milan Stevovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4775	Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament and Ms. Consequences, I must admit that one moment I wanted to be rude and hijack the speech of the President of the Assembly, to commend the Assembly on how we started to work and only talk about the laws, to stick to the subject, to understand our importance and to want to pass these reform laws as soon as possible and to improve them, to be as good as possible. But I have to admit that before I came to the pay phone, a lot of things were heard and that you were all right. It's exactly what you said to each other. The factories are catalyzing, and the chains and locks have been placed for ten years by some others. So, you worked hard, not just factories, and that's the problem you're talking about right now. We have other problems. The problem is that we've lost face in front of the world, that you've embarrassed us in front of the world, that we're ashamed of ourselves, the problem is that they're asking us to repent of some things, the problem is that we've lost our territories, we've lost our wars, our children; you've made a lot of problems. You didn't even tell each other, but it was mostly. It is fortunate that a party has appeared who can solve all this and who has entered the pure cheek of the whole story, who has allowed some to repent, some to clean up, and some to be able to say what they are saying now. It's lucky that the G17 plus party has people who can go into the white world, that someone trusts them, to give them credit, to believe their word, to believe that we're going to be second, that we're going to get in line. None of you would get that loan to go there, and no one would believe him. Good luck, and I don't think we're opening that story anymore... The theme is exactly what I'm trying to say. It's a good thing we're not opening that story, and I was just happy that we're going to function as a real parliament, so I saw us for a moment. I just have to say, remind me of some. They say the reforms are going slowly, that the reform laws could have been passed a year ago. They may have been able to come a year ago, but the G17 plus party wouldn't allow those reformers, the composition, to pass those laws, but to one other people who came to power to show you. It is true that voters know everything and punish everything, it is true that in the autumn, as Mr. Vlahovic mentioned, voters chose and you received as many votes as you received. It is true that you will never have those voices again. Why did you get excited, gentlemen, why is that terrible? You won't have any more votes like you had. That's normal. There came another party, pure cheek, unsullied, unsullied, those tycoons you created trying to bring in the law, those mobsters too. So it works quite differently, it shows each other face, the other cheek of Serbia, and you realize that, gentlemen, maybe it's painful for you now, but that's so, that's a fact. I think for you, not to say, you stopped pulling guns, threatening people, driving other people's jeeps, using apartments and so forth, not to say everything that's... We have made such affairs, neither Janjušević, anything related to us, all of us have helped you, that you may come to your senses. That's why I'm saying, we need to bring this law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers as soon as possible. I don't think we should open the discussion. I didn't want to hurt you at all, I just made some facts, and that's why I think our joint president, whom we've chosen, should really work to unite a healthy democratic force and to speed up these reform laws. I won't comment, you're mostly, this law is short to comment, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4776	I'm warning all MPs, there's plenty of time, Mr. Michael, it's not a replica, it's a part of the search. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, under Article 99, the interference of the speaker behind the pay phone and the throwaway is prohibited. I warn all MPs. Mr. Michael, continue and please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4777	I know the truth usually gets a little painful, but what do we do? That's what I said and I think this reform law is short. I really think we need to speed up making these reform laws. You see that we are persistent, that we will not give up. If we are well-intentioned, if we are thinking well of this country of Serbia, if we are truly honest about what we are talking about, then, starting with Mr. President, who is tasked with uniting all democratic forces to speed up reform laws, we need to understand that we cannot take slow steps in Europe and one law, regardless of what is small, which is just one jewel in that crown of European law, we need to pass. And, so I don't answer every time for a word, to do this again, I think we'll try to do these other nine points that we have left in record time.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4778	Replica, MP Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one request - that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia use his discretionary right, his discretionary authority and ask the services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to close down the buffets and cafes, until 1400 hours to work, and after that, MPs can't consume anything. (President: Mr. Vukic, I am using my parliamentary right to warn you that you are not being offensive to the MPs. Go ahead. I haven’t spoken a word of insult, I haven’t said anything ugly, and I would like these MPs to go out as often as possible. The more they come out, the closer and easier it will be for us to win. A little bit, so we listen when they say - the way to Europe, and all of that Europe somehow further, even though we are geographically in the same place. It's like there are some who are for Australia and Antarctica, and some would go to the Arctic, who knows where, so now those geniuses found themselves going to Europe. Do you want to do it in Europe by having someone put something in your pocket every year, so you change the party? How many parties have you changed so far? Every year you change your way to Europe. One year on the road to Europe is your left, one right, one right. Europe has not changed its geographical position. You were an MP here who knows how many political parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now I'm going to say something that should be seriously answered, which my predecessor did not speak of. So there was talk of chains and locks. Let's do an analysis. Who said anything about chains and locks? He mentioned the one who was in the government with us. So Bogoljub Karic was in our government. He didn't want to criticize himself, did he? He wanted to criticize those who put chains and locks after him. After that, he supported just those who put chains and locks on, that's another thing and that's already his problem and their problem, which will have to explain to Serbian citizens. But chains and locks, and not chains and locks, but you sealed them, factories and production plants and industrial machines, and soon you'll be putting stamps on everything, on all our fields, on everything our warlords keep, in all stops, because never the poorer peasant in Serbia was. Your genius policy came down to the story -- we're going to have a triple-larger agrarian budget. (President: Time, Mr. Wolf. ) Where is this threefold agrarian budget, when there are no peasants to pay for either the raspberries or the cherry or the cereals? And what you promised them, you'll cheat them on it, it's got this much moisture, there's not that much moisture, so from seven to six dinars, so instead of eight plus two, it's going to go into one and a half, and that's going to be -- you pick up 80% first, you carry into silos, and then we'll see when, how and how to pay. (President: Time, Mr. Wolf. The replica was to Mr. Michael's speech. Be nice, finish up. ) This trip to Europe is not changing. I'm done, Mr. Markovic. Europe is in the same place. If you go the same way, with the same idea, you'll go to her too. If you go a little left, then a little right, then a little bit down, so you don't even know where you're going anymore, then you won't get anywhere, at least not far from the congregation buffet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4780	Thank you. Mr. Mihaylov, you can only report to the Rules of Procedure, there's no replica on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4781	Article 100. Gentlemen, it might be your turn to change the party. I wish they had changed the party in 1990, that they had left Mr. Milosevic, where you were lucky that you left Mr. Seselj in time. But you have one problem, which no one, no party, will. You must hold on to Mr. Seselj, because no one will see you, you are not significant to him. As for Europe and wheat, we promised our farmers, our warriors that price. You promised three dinars of bread. Come ye put in this bread, and feed, as Christ fed all the peoples of Israel with one bread. You try to do the same, if you're a miracle worker, then you really come to power, and don't sell the fog. Our people know. As for the buffet, you use it more than I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4782	This was, I guess, by Article 97. Rules of Procedure, misreading. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4783	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when Mr. Michael said they wanted him, so he changed four or five parties, six parties changed in the past few years, I have to remind him that people and citizens of Serbia respect politicians, people who represent them and how much they respect their idea, their ideology, if they have it at all. Those who are more often changing political uniforms than Milko Djurovski has changed in the former Yugoslavia's club space, are unlikely to be able to count on any support from the peoples and citizens of Serbia. There's something else I need to tell you. You're talking about leaving Mr. Seselj. No, unlike you, we're people. We may not always be right, we may not be the best politicians in the world, but we certainly are, unlike you, the good people, and we have an idea that he left us and that we will fight for and that we will follow. Don't doubt that. Because of what we do and when a man is in prison when he is far away from here, we get a huge number of votes, in the last elections almost 1.500,000, and Tomislav Nikolic against Tadic, Karic, Kostunica, Labus, Dinkic, Draskovic, Velje Ilic, and against all others, Zarko Korać, Goran Svilanovic, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, against all of you 1.500,000 votes. You're getting close, Mr. Michael, to your party change. Changed not, more in the Assembly you will hardly be able to, only if you apply to one of the Serbian Radicals in the future to bring you here, the dohola or some other place dear to you, will you be able to stop by the National Assembly, and there is this "open door" institute, which Mr Markovic has now organized, and you will be able to "open door" at the National Assembly to stop by.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4784	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Baralic. I warn Mr. Vukic, under Article 97, that he does not provide incorrect and offensive information about the MPs of the Assembly. Otherwise, the Assembly organized an open door, not a president. It was a great pleasure of your participation. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4785	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for asking, the SPS is fine. The most important verse in the folk song "The marriage of King Vukashin" is that, "Today she has betrayed me in you, tomorrow she will betray you into another", though it is more important to some: "What was to her knees, the Wolf is to the earth." I respect everyone's right to change the political party, it's his assessment and he's doing so in line with the idea of political action, evaluations on the political scene or some other issues that matter to him or to the organisation he wants to belong to. But let no one frame in other political parties, let them use their democratic right in the party they are currently in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4786	The People's MP Milan Stevovic has the word, and let the People's MP Vjerica Radeta be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have seen in the debate so far, much has been said about the draft law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. But what I want to notice is that this law is spoken of in a specific way. Namely, the ruling group wants to glorify this law at the same time to say that everything the SRS stands for is not true and that it is not justified. However, I will tell you a few things in favor of everything my colleagues have said. In fact, there's a question that can be done by the agency. I'd put them in three categories. First, these are some basic jobs, basic activities, then, supervisory activities and ultimately, side jobs. It's right that all those who criticized and said that the agency was doing some work that absolutely shouldn't be done. What falls into the eyes is that these are jobs that other authorities can do, not start agencies. There's one major problem. A month ago, we also discussed an agency that seized some of the jurisdiction from trade courts. Now for the second time we're discussing the agency and we're taking back some of the jurisdiction from the trade courts. It's not just about criticizing the work of trade courts, it's about what these trade courts should do and how they do. I advocate that the opinion and attitude of the SRS be respected that these matters can be done in a perfectly appropriate manner, for example, by the Supreme Court of Serbia, who is normally competent to determine the experts in a particular procedure and by appropriate procedure. If the Supreme Court is able and competent to give authority to individual experts in court proceedings, it may also be competent and adequate for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. I don't see a special difference between these two types of helpers in the work of the court. Namely, the bankruptcy manager is only one of the institutes to assist in the operation of bankruptcy councils, or trade courts. For these reasons, it is necessary to draw close to these two things and to say freely that the Supreme Court, which is competent to grant licences for the passing of judicial examinations, or to give assurance of the submitted judicial examinations to the holders of judicial functions, can certainly be qualified, professional and competent to give this to the bankruptcy administrators. As for the authorities who are authorised to work on behalf of this agency, and we're talking about three types of bodies, and this is about a board of directors who has four members, and then a supervisory board that also has a president and two members and a director of the agency, when we look at the sum of all these officials or representatives of the agency, that sum is nine. What does that mean? In addition to these nine, they must have appropriate services and still have some employees. Therefore, a very large agency to finance the Republic of Serbia's budget is being discussed, i.e. to finance them as provided for in the law. I believe, as the SRS believes, this is a certain bureaucratic-administrative revolution for the impoverished budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, every agency, including this agency, has a certain service activity. If it's a favor, she's very expensive. You need to bring this down to some minimum, something else that doesn't have to cost as much as it's gonna cost. We have to say that all of this is financed from a very impoverished economy and economic operators are no longer able to give this kind of pressure and to finance this number of job openings. The impression is that the ministries and the government have become tighter for all those who claim to do these kinds of jobs. For these reasons, I would argue that this law should not be adopted and that the SRS proposals should be respected. As far as funding is concerned, I must say that the initial 30 million dinars is an extremely high figure and that this should be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What my colleagues said about further work and funding, I fully accept. However, I would like to ask one principle question, what happens after the election and giving the license to a certain number of bankruptcy managers? Namely, we have 15 trade courts and a senior trade court. In the context of these, if it would be taken on average that in each court it needs 20 bankruptcy managers, that would mean 300 people should be given a license and pass this exam. Let's say that's 500, and we're limiting some deadline that after three months of adoption of this law, everyone has to pass and get this license. What after five years? Who's going to take these exams after five years and get this license after five years? Thus, the work of these agencies will be reduced over time and they will slowly die, and I suggest that this law not be passed, as the SRS said.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4788	The People's MP, Verica Radeta, has the word, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared. The parliamentary group has 32 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4789	Ladies and gentlemen, about a month or two ago, a representative of the DSS, then president of the parliamentary group, told praises that the Serbian government had abolished the regulation by nine agencies because his DSS's position, as he said, is a principled position, not to introduce the paraorgans, not to introduce parallel authorities and has already called those agencies. We just thought the fashion agency had passed, but already after that he stepped up for this pay phone, four or five agencies were formed to this day. The sitting agenda, which is under way, provides for four or five new agencies, and the peak is this agency's strange title - to license bankruptcy managers. We Serbian radicals are generally against the agencies, and we defend our position when it comes to any proposal that foresees the existence of the agency as a paraorgana in relation to the existing state body, for a number of reasons. One reason is the experience we have with the agencies of the former DOS, or democratic government. There were 18 of them at the time; it was impossible for all relatives, friends and party activists to be placed in government, and then the ad hoc agency was set up to ensure that all responsible citizens were well cared for. Apparently, the DSS continues the same practice. How much does it cost the citizens of Serbia obviously nobody cares. In this proposal, you said in an explanation that the existence of this agency in the beginning should cost citizens of Serbia 30 million dinars to be allocated from Serbia's budget. That's what you do at a time when the roads in Serbia are blocked, when they are blocked by wheat, raspberries, cherries, railway workers, health care, education, and Minister Dinkic's getting out of the media and saying, "Let him strike whoever he wants, the money from the budget is gone." It explains how the budget is being filled, how the budget is empty, as if someone cares how he, who has become a finance minister, is going to fill the budget. Citizens expect to be paid what the state needs to pay and the funds invested in the budget to be returned in an adequate manner. That's what the government's representatives obviously have no intention, regardless of that pre-election slogan when the government was advertised by supporting the presidential candidate to remind citizens that, I don't know, a three-fold increase in the agrarian budget. Now, Serbia's citizens are rightly asking where the funds have been raised three times, and the producers of wheat, raspberries and cherries are daily in roadblocks across Serbia. When it comes to this agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, you have here a very interesting kind of funding, in addition to these 30 million that you will single out from Serbia's budget in article 6 you have also foreseen revenues made from donations, contributions and sponsorship of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons. Does this mean what it looks like to me, and I think this article 6 provides for the purchase of a license? Whoever has the information that a company is ready for bankruptcy, he will buy a grant license and conduct bankruptcy proceedings, and in the last four years we have made sure that it is a very profitable job, we have made sure that Janjusevic and Kolesar, the protagonists of the Democratic Party, in the way they have been bankrupt in certain Serbian companies. It is true that there have been bad experiences before, but I would like to remind fellow MPs that, for example, in the period from 1998 to 2000, the Trade Court in Belgrade has not opened a single bankruptcy and that this was the basic reason why DS made the crisis headquarters and expelled Milena Arežina, with all those crimes that were happening to that woman, from the Trade Court and brought to its place Goran Kljajevic, who had been burning and burned for four years and wanted to return it and therefore, of course, still hasn't been replaced. The SRS parliamentary group thinks it is pointless to have this agency and to license some special group or caste people who will deal exclusively with bankruptcy. We think that through the amendments to this previous law, we have told you that any good businessman, or person who has a high professional standing, who has a certain working experience in management in the economy, can be appointed to the court register. We really don't see what other traits or skills there are to be held by someone who pleads to be a bankruptcy manager. What else is he supposed to be good at throwing spears, jumping away, jumping down his groin? I don't know what it is, except for what we've quoted, which would require someone to be a good bankruptcy manager. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary brought out a replacement for thesis here. He said that we MPs of the SRS because of Goran Kljajevic, and you said that you agree with our assessment of the work of that gentleman, we want to change the law. No, Minister, that's why you want to change the law. We say that there remains bankruptcy in the Trade Court, and you say – no, it cannot be done by the Trade Court, because you have bad experience with Goran Kljajevic. Of course, that's your problem, not ours. Also, the SRS believes it is unacceptable to narrow down the circle of people who will handle bankruptcy, since we know there are tens of thousands of Serbian companies that are under bankruptcy. It is unacceptable for a group of people to be determined exclusively for this job, according to the criteria that we do not really see from this law. Nothing here gives us a guarantee that if someone of quality gets that license, that they do the job, or, more importantly, they'll do it fairly. Such a guarantee does not give us this law. Something else seems to us. It seems to us that you will create a hundred escapes that will divide the refugees of the Serbian economy, and they will only have the task of carrying out a harbinger over the Serbian economy and that hundreds more thousands of Serbian citizens are out of work. We do not think that Serbian citizens expect this from this government, and certainly this is not what the SRS parliamentary group expects, and therefore we will not vote for this and for the previous law, because neither one nor the other brings anything qualitative in relation to the current situation. On the contrary, we believe that the existing situation is much better, that there are ways for bankruptcy managers to work in accordance with the law, to do it fairly, of course, assuming that the bankruptcy manager is not Zoran Janjusevic or Kolesar. But it's also not a matter of law, it's a matter of personal choice. Minister, this morning you told us that this law guarantees the validity of the bankruptcy proceedings. I've read this bill, but I haven't really seen anywhere how this law guarantees the validity of the bankruptcy process. I understand, you're obviously the only minister in the Serbian government who doesn't hesitate to stand before the MPs, and that's why you represent every law here. Perhaps you'll also have nothing to do with this health law, given that this law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers has nothing to do with the ministry of which you're headed. While you're sitting here, Mr. Minister, I think it would be better if you took a little more time to deal with the situation in the judiciary, to hear that last night's special prosecutor Bruno Vekaric, former justice minister, gave political speeches, which is absolutely the opposite of the function he was elected to. I can see that no one has any intention of moving it from that function. So, the SRS has made as many amendments to this law as this law has members, because we thought it was the only way to let you know that we are against this law. It would be good, given that the government's representative did not do so, if fellow MPs thought again, to adopt our amendments to that previous law and to conduct bankruptcy in one right way, to protect the Serbian economy from new chains and locks.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4790	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4791	I'm only reporting for a brief replica of Mrs. Radetti. There's no reason to be mad at me and say I'm doing thesis replacements, 'cause I'm really not. I'll explain why. When it came to donations, it was introduced into the law to cut budget spending. If the donor's funds increase the amount, the budget intervention will be reduced. Now there's the other part that you don't say, which is that none of the donors or sponsors have any special rights regarding bankruptcy managers and their licensing. When you leave out that part, then you can say that conclusion – because it has some interest. However, he was denied by law here. Secondly, when I spoke yesterday about Mr. Kljajevic, I did not say about the exemption from the jurisdiction of the court, but here it was said that there were other provisions that should be introduced so that Kljajevic would not repeat himself. I just said that there is no need to enter those provisions into this law, because there should be other procedures for Mr. Kljajevic. That's what I said. In the end, I didn't claim that this law alone, as you say, provides a valid bankruptcy. I said, when the bankruptcy law is added to this law, which regulates one important element, then we get a valid bankruptcy procedure. In this case, the first part of the sentence was left out.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4792	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4793	Given that the DSS was mentioned and its position regarding the agencies, it was clearly said that the DSS opposed the way the agencies were formed in the previous period, because the way they were formed was the cause of all the abuses that took place. True, there you are right, precisely the fact that by a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by one sublaw act, an agency was formed, that the bureaus were formed, that there was no business control, there was no work control, there were abuses from all of these persons mentioned here. The Democratic Party of Serbia, when it comes to the agency, believes this is the only way to prevent the incompetent and incompetent bankruptcy managers from destroying this small Serbian economy and companies that remain through the licensing of bankruptcy managers through their training and education. The only way is through the formation of an organ that is not unknown in the world. If there's only a little bit of a cross-law analysis, if other administrations are analysed, we have an example of Great Britain that formed 138 executive agencies and it's one of the most capable and most operational administrations in the world. They made a clear decision to make strategic decisions within the ministry and to move as many jobs as possible to the so-called. external bodies that will be controlled by parliament and government. This agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, if formed in time, as we expect, should an education plan be drawn up as soon as possible, if the bankruptcy managers get their licenses as soon as possible, will prevent those who have worked in this trade court in Belgrade, mentioned, from breaking up this few companies that have remained. That's why we need to all agree on this issue. I understand that there are conceptual differences about whether agencies should exist or not, but it is important to find a solution for these to be boasted and long-term bankruptcy procedures to be prevented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4794	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4795	I'm advertising Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which an MP is obliged to speak only about the subject on the agenda. The esteemed colleague spoke of problems in agriculture that could in no way be associated with the licensing of bankruptcy managers, but speaking of which, I would like to say the following. The Serbian government has invested and made great efforts to create a long-term strategy in the area of agriculture in this country, and that is why the agricultural budget has been increased three times and it will bring long-term benefits to our agriculture. But that's not all. Serbia's government also solves short-term problems in agriculture. As you can see, a deal has been reached with wheat producers and also in the purchase of cherry. I have to say that the problems that exist in this area are not because the government has not negotiated and that the government has not made every effort. The government even granted loans to buyers to encourage them to buy these products at an adequate price. Unfortunately, the problem appears on the other side. For this problem, you can address the buying lobbys behind which the country's financial powers stand, and the fight against them is fought by the government and the G17 plus. Unfortunately, for now they have support in some other political options, and we hope that the fight will end successfully. As for Mladjan Dinkic explaining to citizens and producers how the budget is filled and empty, I can fully understand some parliamentary groups and some MPs who do not understand what democracy is. One of the basic principles of democracy is transparency, or visibility, if that makes you more understood, the work of the government and government officials. That is why Mladjan Dinkic believes there is a need to explain to Serbian citizens how the budget is being filled and that this is our common budget and that we should manage this budget together.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4796	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about what's on the agenda, but of course the burning problems, about everything that bothers the citizens of Serbia. All that Mrs Radeta has said about this speaker is true, even in a certain way, Minister Stojkovic confirmed it in his presentation. As far as agricultural works are concerned, and what the government is doing or especially one political party, I don't want to be someone who's easy to do all day just criticise and attack without saying anything else or offering a solution. I don't think it's easy for the government, and it wouldn't be easy for any government to find a solution to all the problems in Serbia, to fill the budget deficit, to fill all the holes, but what is the problem, and what we are different is the concept, strategic differences, that's the fact that we would find ways. It can't survive a closed economy. We would find ways to protect domestic agricultural production primarily with levies or other customs and fiscal duties, so we would not import chicken and pig meat from 15,000 kilometers away as we do today. You're watching today, you can't ban it, but do you see that the most billboard has been leased by Radenska? I don't mind, but is it possible that "Knjiz Milos", "Vrenjci", "Mivela", "Heba", "Karajordje", any other water of ours will appear on the Slovenian market. Would the state allow that? Don't we have enough water so we need 10 million bottles of that kind of water to import, to destroy our production, or someone on it takes a commission? That's the fundamental difference between you and me. We think that we need not only to invest in general consumption, but by investing in production to raise the level of social product, but rather to create opportunities for the future of this country, for the future of our children, to invest in agricultural and industrial production, to open new factories, new agricultural and industrial complexes, and to then create excess values and profits from which we can repay money, even those debts to serve. No one thinks it's easy for someone, or anyone wants to undermine someone's efforts. I'm just saying that we need a different strategy, a development strategy, we need a new economy for Serbia, not a borrowing economy, not an economy of destroying our national resources, but an equal chance for everyone to work and live off their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4798	The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the draft laws that has been prescribed from the European community, agreed, it does not matter. You need to use other people's knowledge, it's the cheapest knowledge, but you need to understand the text, how applicable it is to the conditions in which we live. As an introduction to the story, I'm going to give an example of how the former government did it to the problem of restructuring our economy. In "The Official Messenger" No. The government's programme for restructuring, preparation for privatisation, bankruptcy and liquidation of enterprises was announced on March 12th. Some sum of nearly seven billion dinars in two items per year has been foreseen, and it is said in that part of the programme that can be a beneficiary of funds and what is the way to get those funds. I'm talking about part of the company that owns most of the state. In the case of one big system, companies where I've worked in the economy for over 35 years, I'm just gonna tax you to understand the opening story. So the beginning of March -- the government program. In late April we published an ad where we gave workers the opportunity to choose one of the three options, do you 6. 000 dinars per year of internship, whether 10 average salaries or to be sent to the labour market with the severance payment paid by the company depending on the years of internship, from two to five salaries. More than 1,000 workers were fired for less than three days. The workers who realized that the company had failed, that there was no way out of the crisis, took the money and left Majdanpek. They took the money of those who were most capable, most professional and who had the opportunity, knowledge and courage to go into the world and continue to work and earn to survive, for purely economic reasons. In the company where I worked, the other people were disabled, the other ones who were connected to the environment where the company was located. It's the other ones who are sick, because they couldn't do the skill process, get on the board to prove their disability. We didn't have the money to repromise, we didn't have the equipment, the spare parts, the debts are huge. We're out of workers. So, I don't need to explain to you the concept of company restructuring, you know, but the way the government did it, we just reduced the number of employees; on the question of the correspondents from Europe whether the mine had reduced the number of employees, whether the mine had freed the extra employees, my answer was – it wasn't. Of course not, more than 1,000 people left him in three days. Those who needed the mine went, and they were the ones who couldn't be employed, because disability doesn't allow them to be engaged in a full-time job, to achieve average work results without their health being further compromised. I'm telling you this story for the reason that in all the companies where the state capital is majority, where we had a practically government board of directors, so the corporate governance authorities have been abolished, that's all that's been done. Imagine now what knowledge this licensed bankruptcy manager needs to have to finish the job, I mean the bankruptcy of these companies. However, we are contesting this bill for the reason that we have nothing to do with it in this way... The bankruptcy may be the easiest, it's not the most painless, but the easiest way to get the big business done, because it's legal. This proposal is applicable in the west, because there are companies, I mean the private sector. So, when it comes to the social sector, we say there will be bankruptcy, that it will be done by the government's privatisation agency or everything must be done with the government's consent. Imagine a company that doesn't have any means to continue the process of production, that debts are so large to the state, obligations to creditors, banks, that a long time ago a bankruptcy procedure was to be completed, but no one was going to initiate the procedure for the reason that it had to invest large amounts of money to cover the cost of bankruptcy. Practically, all the companies went bankrupt, and no one will admit it. In this bankruptcy law, the obligations and rights of the bankruptcy manager, the bankruptcy council, the bankruptcy judge, are specified, but what about the workers, what about the employees? When a company goes bankrupt, the workers run out of work, the state takes care of their rights. So, the state's social programme creates some kind of means that they live or in those countries there's some possibility of hiring in another sector. There is no possibility of employment in another sector, they are left out of work, factories are closed and the existence of employees, i.e. the family of employees, is threatened to this extent. That's what this government can't do, and the previous government couldn't do it, except cut the number of employees. And that should be added to the amendments to the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance, which are in line with the European Community and prescribed in part, just a little bit to remind you, because the Law that entered a year ago does not even know the remaining working ability, has abolished the concepts of the previous law (meaning, remaining working ability, reduced working ability, disability), knows only - capable of work and incapacitated. Many people have lost their health by working in factories where small funds are invested and are now unable to do any work. It's not true that the worker doesn't have a reduced working capacity -- if he started working age at 20, healthy, young and able, then after thirty and a few years of working in difficult conditions, with years of living, he loses that job capacity, or has a reduced working ability -- just because that notion in the law doesn't exist and the expert normally won't say that he has a reduced working ability and declares him capable of working. The employer has the possibility... Just remember the Labour Act. We have very elegantly solved this in three days, so we have called on the Labour Act, Article 101 of item 8), and we have all led to this situation that all workers have stopped working as workers whose work has ceased to work and that all other opportunities have been exhausted, and requalifications and everything else, and I think that there is also a deployment, and maybe we can talk about some other jobs, but they have lost their jobs, they have helped the employer and the government by choosing the option that was most appropriate to them. There are a large number of workers left who have no option and are unable to be employed at any job, because they had no choice, nor can they do anything to leave. When the company closes down, they'll be out of a job completely. The area of Majdanpek, where I live, is poor, there is no agriculture, all the villages were sent to the mine and everyone lived and everyone who was out of work has no more means to live. There is no possibility of schooling children, it is very difficult to get to a doctor, go and get out of Majdanpek, because it costs a lot and most often gives up trying to leave and treat because there is no material opportunity to do so. The problem with these people is to achieve social protection, and in these amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, only to be reminded of article 13, where those who have some income from agriculture don't care if it's a dinar or how much, they have an obligation, are not poor households. It's a country of fifth or sixth categories, no revenue comes true. You can't expect someone to live on a small estate in a poor village just as a family household can live with certain conditions in Vojvodina, Shumadia or elsewhere. If we wanted to apply it consistently, and previously governments that had the same problem are not only for that reason, because it would be noted that this government has left this large company and everything is out of work, but it is a problem and businesses cannot function. With the work of these companies stories must be done in some way and it must be in accordance with the regulations, but that workers do not lose any means of life. It's the most dramatic situation in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4800	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4801	As a logical consequence of such a bankruptcy law today, we have a bill on the agency to license bankruptcy managers. How did all this go? It started in October 2000 with crisis headquarters, but somewhere in January 2001, crisis headquarters were no longer so modern, and then a parole was launched - a start for property. Yes, they do. So, the start for property, billboards, cars, honey and milk moves, revived democracy directed by DS and DOS. If we skip a little bit of what was in the meantime, how many people are out of a job, now we have a parole -- "for the record," so, for the record, undertone and blue and red, and in that ad we have one urban agricultural producer, of course, one of the two marketing agencies that follow DOS government, so it's usually, so, the owners are with some weird last names, standing a man in a full barn, and behind the back yellow corn and he says -- three times the agrarian budget. Yeah, three times the agrarian budget; what do these people do with tractors, it's just not clear to anyone, three times the budget, three times the number of people on the streets. That's how it went, and now I'm going to do a parallel and see how pointless this is in that former ministry (and that minister's people didn't want to go to the polls last December, so now they're heating up some bench, the last one, and they're learning politics from the opposition scene). I have to point out that the bankruptcy manager, whether or not he had a license, is actually a judicial enforcer. So whether he's licensed or not, he's a bailiff. If you want bankruptcy managers to license through this agency, then there is much more reason for the judicial perpetrators to also pass the exam and get a license for the court enforcer, but you lawyers might want to consider it a little bit, since you are also participants in the court proceedings and you will probably need a license. Yes, a license, but through a legal licensing agency. By the way, as you're on your way, there's probably going to be some kind of health worker licensing agency. From these examples, you can see that it's all in the same basket, on the same level, and then the question arises why there are committees at the ministries where people lay so-called. State exams. When they pass a state exam they get paper, a certificate, a diploma, that they're trained to work in a state body, a manger, a school and anywhere else where there's more to be mastered besides that school knowledge. For these calls, you have not formed the agencies, but the bankruptcy directors must make a new caste, a new caste of licensed bankruptcy managers. They will do it highly expertly, well-qualityly and professionally, or they will split it as a mele on the wound when a company is shut down. It's just one media prank like that "start for property" or "know it" as something epochal. And with this agency you spread the illusion, the fog to forget the essence, the core of the problem. That's the whole point of this Ujdurma, which is called bankruptcy legislation, which is sent from that resistor where it must belong, the Ministry of Justice, to the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, and who knows what you're going to call it. Some solutions are interesting, we'll talk about it when the amendments are on the agenda; it'll probably be a chain and lock agency. Now we come to the conclusion that with the right of an earlier minister, and now some vice-president, has ured for the bankruptcy of the state to assume the obligation of Sartida, to be bought by some Americans, because that's where iron is produced, so whether iron is in the form of tablets, lime or rods, but it's necessary because of chains and locks. And it's likely that one of the famous owners of the private university will open up a department of bankruptcy management, to show in part that his pulns are going to break chains and locks. It is likely that through this agency, since the agency in Article 3 has very serious jobs, it is trained professionally by persons who need to take an exam... A special item has to be the tearing of chains and locks. That's the future, and that's the way to Europe that you're pushing us to. You're a lot behind on that road. You have many obstacles, but the obstacles are not in the citizens and the opposition, the obstacles are in you, the bad translation, that no one believes. They're letting you have a little fun here, to fight on your left, this new, new international, where you are, to chase yourself and see that fog yields some results only if the fog is followed by Solana and Mesic. So, chains and locks, that's that bright future. Here it is epochally represented that when the agency is formed by law, it is something other than the situation when the agency is formed by a regulation. From the point of view of legality, it may be, but from the point of view, there is no principle of difference. It doesn't make any difference. The problem is that Serbia with these potentials cannot imitate the UK and has so many hundreds of agencies for everything and everything. It can't, it just doesn't have those, as you like to say, capacity. There isn't. He can't. What was wrong with the state exams taking place at the ministry? What would be wrong with you prescribing a special state exam as a proof of your ability that someone can perform the function of a bankruptcy manager, and that it's in that department building, instead of making an agency and you're justifying it with a donation. Let me remind you, all the donations the state gets are going into the budget. You have an uncovered part of the budget where you planned -- I guess it'll drop something on the side. I guess those donations go into the budget, too. Although, we're waiting for you to discuss those previous donations. It's known there which lady spent as much. You'll have to take a look at this, if for nothing else, then confirm that password of yours "for the record". You need to know, but as long as you're in power, I would only warn you to take care of one thing. Don't let any more devalue the concepts in this country. The concept of democracy has long been degraded. It's a concept of privatisation that I don't talk. As early as that Djindjic revaluation, you remember, when from 97% privatized to 3%, only when you weren't in power, you who reproduce hate and live off hate and think that in politics you can do something to hate. No, it's past that time, forget it, but don't insult the concepts anymore. When it comes to privatization, now it means in the people - robbery. When it's said - we've increased the Agrarian budget, that means they're throwing cherries. When you say -- now we're going to do efficient bankruptcy, right now that means chains and locks. When you say -- now we're going to fix social policy and social giving, it's even more of a misery. All you're promoting in practice is the negation of the importance of the concept you're using. Be careful with the concepts, because the time for replacing the thesis has long passed, and what some say is, to the nail, take care. Many have lost their patience and nerve, and believe me, there are many people who are very hard to live for. For nothing, you say "start for property", "for the record", "democracy", "human rights" and some other things, look around, talk to your neighbors, hear what they're saying, and you'll see that they don't care at all what you serve us in an extraordinary session. This doesn't interest anyone, it's all clear to everyone long ago. Through the crisis headquarters, we've come to this situation "for the record," but to know that this side has done it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4802	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several times from this pay phone, not only on the proposal of this law, but on most of the laws that were on the agenda of this call, said that nothing should be changed; neither the Law on Courts and Judges of the 1990s, nor the Law on the Register of Companies of the 1990s, nor the law on bankruptcy proceedings of 1989. Nothing needs to change, norms are great, the system is great, it just needs to change people who will apply those laws. This is exactly what a conceptual difference is seen between those who dispute the adoption of this law and those who think that the system must be changed by the adoption of new laws. Laws of the 1990s, which some here promote and affirm, suggest are better than all those adopted in this assembly, were precisely the cause of all those crises of the economic and legal system, the cause of corruption and crime in Serbia in the previous period. That is why the DSS decided to support, among other things, this fact that the organisation of the Serbian administration must change, that a massive, inefficient machine of bureaucracy is unable to meet the needs of citizens and modern market economy. One way is to form agencies that will specialize in certain tasks, in this case the licensing of bankruptcy managers. It is precisely jobs prescribed for the agency that it, in addition to the fact that it issues, renews and lifts licenses and organises and conducts expert exams, has an obligation to follow the rules, to propose national standards. In this respect, the agency itself is a dynamic body that is changing, which monitors the situation in bankruptcy proceedings, changes programmes, changes education, and thus helps bankrupt managers to obtain adequate knowledge that will be appropriate for the moment in which the economy and the procedures are being conducted. The code of ethics is also mentioned, very important; one MP spoke about it -- it is important that it is accurately prescribed, that bankruptcy managers have the opportunity to accept obligations in bankruptcy procedures, that they cannot just refuse them. What matters is, there was a dilemma why a bankruptcy manager must be an entrepreneur. It's just that he'd only be professionally involved in this business. He registers as an entrepreneur to perform the function of a bankruptcy manager. This excludes the possibility that we now have in bankruptcy proceedings, that a large number of bankruptcy managers own private companies, agencies, law offices and that he has the possibility, precisely because he runs bankruptcy proceedings, to realize his private interests and directly come into conflict of interest. The question is, why is the agency doing certain jobs as confidential jobs? I just said, it's a principle, a different definition of the organization of the government's authority and its functioning. The question is why the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants has supervision tasks as well as a bankruptcy court. It was just in the previous period that the bankruptcy court had no control over the bankruptcy directors. It was really necessary to form an independent body that would have an instrument of sanctions in its hands, which the bankruptcy court did not have. So, the possibility of withdrawing the licence, that the supervision team should in some way be threatened by bankruptcy managers unless the bankruptcy manager's obligation in the bankruptcy proceedings is carried out in a quality way and that the interests of creditors and all other entities in the bankruptcy proceedings are preserved. In the end, this licensing agency and how it contributes to the bankruptcy process being carried out as soon as possible. The fact is that bankruptcy managers are licensed, that the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers has an instrument of sanctions, that it can stop a bankruptcy manager unless it works in accordance with the code of ethics and its profession, but at the expense of the company itself. It can take away his license and thus send a message to other bankruptcy managers that they can't work against the code of ethics and interests of the creditor himself and the creditor. That is why the DSS once again invites all MPs to support this law. In addition to the fact that it is compatible and complements the bankruptcy law, it certainly introduces the possibility that the authorities of the state administration are also in a different way conjecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4804	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, they submitted: Joint MPs Milomir Minić, Zarko Obradović and Jovan Todorovic, and MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Zarko Obradovic and then MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4805	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, colleagues Minic and Todorovic and I have submitted three amendments to this bill. The essence of all three amendments is the same -- we believe that the Ministry of Business Affairs can do all these jobs that are provided for by this law for the Agency. Why do I say that? Because otherwise, this short law, a 15-member member, also sets out very precisely the obligations of the ministry responsible for business affairs. The Ministry of Business proposes to appoint and dismiss members of the board of directors, proposing to the government that the supervisory board be appointed and resolved, proposed to the government of the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. This ministry performs the tasks of overseeing the work of the agency, informs the government of the surveillance carried out; this ministry has essentially many jobs that it directly and indirectly does in relation to the agency. We think he can do the job absolutely competently. The establishment of the agency is essentially increasing the number of people involved in this work, employees. It can, in our opinion, be done in the ministry. It is indisputable, I think, that the financial resources needed for this job are increased, because it is the work of both the ministries and the agencies, i.e. in our proposal it essentially comes down to the licensing of bankruptcy managers. Yesterday and today, we heard a lot about the bankruptcy law and the licensing of bankruptcy managers, and it seems to me that there is no need to waste words, because the experience of carrying out bankruptcy over the past few years has clearly shown that in some cases they have compromised the entire bankruptcy process. Because these people, the bankruptcy managers, were the link that enabled the law to be implemented in a specific way, to obtain the necessary approval and to pour a significant portion of social wealth into private pockets. The bankruptcy directors were people of different qualifications. The question is how competent they were to give a job. The essential question is whether they were even appointed to do that bankruptcy business based on the content of the law, because what can I say... I'll list two examples that might best illustrate the business of bankruptcy managers and who got all the licenses. The press otherwise announced that the license of a bankruptcy manager in the Beka case, a company that had 1,300 people at the time of the bankruptcy, was given to a man who had 30 years of life, who was a machine engineer by profession, and his deputy was an electric engineer with 27 years of life. Can anyone think that one company of 1,300 can successfully get out of the dubiosis, from a situation where there are two people -- one electric engineer, one machine engineer, at 30 and 27? They were brought here to finish some work, obviously. Also in the press is information about the bankruptcy manager of the Shipyard, who at the time became the bankruptcy manager of the company had a company that was engaged in ship and platform remonting and was at one point a bankruptcy manager at two shipyards in Belgrade. In itself, it best says that these licences are necessary, but it would be good for the minister, the promoter to hear what are the additional reasons why the government was managed to define this concept. It involves the establishment of a special agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. I think that answer would be interesting not only for us as someone who has proposed another concept, but also for the public of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4806	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is against forming agencies. Those who defend that attitude point out that this is a worldwide experience, especially in the countries of the European Union, and even an example that there are about 120-130 agencies in the UK. It is normal for every executive authority to have the best-organised state apparatus to carry out government and certain ministries' orders. However, we need to be aware of the situation in which our country, our economy, how our citizens live, so according to this situation we need to organize a state apparatus that will be both cheap and efficient. Often, the previous government was criticised for the large number of agencies set up by sublaws, and this was mostly criticised when the budget was adopted, the budget law for next year, and the number of agencies were taxed and how much money they spent. A few months ago, I think the election campaign, the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Vojislav Kostunica, has just begun, if I am not mistaken, by nine agencies and says, well, we will not, by one sublegal act, establish the authorities of the state administration. So far, a fifth or sixth agency has been established in four months' time. If they continue at this pace, until September, possibly by October, they will equalize the number of agencies that were before the election campaign, when for the purpose of the election campaign, in fact, you have abolished individual agencies. Those who defend this law say the previous way of implementing bankruptcy was followed by a massive and slow state apparatus. What's the difference now? Where do you see the efficiency of the state apparatus? Now you have a bankruptcy agency that needs to issue a license to some bankruptcy manager to initiate some bankruptcy proceedings, it needs to be in some directory of bankruptcy managers, probably in some kind of register, etc. Well, then you need to form, and all I'm talking about is speed, a trustee's assembly, so it's a little more bankrupt. There are now legal deadlines that are, however, defined, but in order for one company to go into bankruptcy, if it is followed a little more closely and the dates are collected, it takes four to six months at least, provided that everything goes perfectly. A lot depends on this agency. I don't want to talk about it now that it's possible, because there's only gonna be one institution in the state that's gonna issue licenses, that someone's gonna have a monopoly on the license. So, that the license is not a reflection of his knowledge and ability as a bankruptcy manager, but perhaps of ideological-political similarities and that it will be, minority, given by the agency to some trade court to initiate some bankruptcy proceedings, and in a bankruptcy procedure, I can tell you, there are many misappropriations of all the executives, and I believe that it is particularly interested in the furniture from the past government, although you continue this continuity, all those who have carried out certain abuses in bankruptcy proceedings, so it can be very elegant to execute the abolition. One way is to do it through this agency. Simply, if the bankruptcy manager doesn't want to make a political decision, you'll have to lift his license in three years. That's the problem with this agency and the problem with this law at all. You're talking about how the proposer says that this fear of losing his license will make him do what the law says. Personally, I think it can make him enforce someone's political decisions, not the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4808	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4809	Same song again. The song is this: therefore, amendments are submitted only in order to enforce the right to submit amendments and discussions in particular. This is about extending the principled search, because in order for the amendment to Article 1 to be explained differently. Proposal for a law that says - Article 1 is deleted. Article 1 states – this law establishes an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. Let's delete Article 1, we've deleted all the other members. That is possible, but then why the amendment to Article 2 to delete, to Article 3, amendment to Article 4, with the same content to delete the member. Then what? What do you want? You want to go out for every amendment, explain why it's being deleted. Great! What, then, is the reason for the amendment to Article 1 different from that of the amendment to Article 3? Nothing. Of course, you admit that you abuse this congregation and this pay phone and the right to discuss in particular. By doing so, you extend the work of this congregation and harass both the MPs and the citizens who have chosen you. That's what you're actually doing. That's why you'll be doing so well in the next election, I hope that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4810	By amendment, Zoran Krasic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4811	It's not hard to understand, it's just to read, you know, it's not even hard to be nice. Someone can write, and that doesn't mean that the other can't suggest that they delete it. It's hard to understand that for some time. However, if we look at what is written in Article 1 of this proposal of the law (of course, the member has received his title again), he says – this law establishes an agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. It would have been much better if you had written – this law establishes an academy for education of bankruptcy managers, or - this law establishes a school for education of bankruptcy managers, or – this law establishes an organisationalist in the ministry where people will take the exam for bankruptcy managers. Or what might be best if you didn't write anything. Since that would be best if you hadn't written anything, that's why our amendments are to get rid of all this nicely, to get out of legal traffic, never to come into force, so that this mess doesn't even come alive. Now that they're probably making new coalitions, it's probably going to be an academy, a private one again, and it'd probably be the real name of that licensing agency... Although I don't understand why you've potentiated that licensing when we've got the Agency for Rehabilitation and Bank bankruptcy at the same time. I'm not quite sure that everyone who works at that agency has passed professional exams and that they're licensed. But they delete those banks, remove banks, open space for some other banks that come with founding capital from those exotic islands we heard last year. So, you're making us, MPs, to legalize your will to form an institution, I kept listening, although I wasn't very comfortable with what you were saying earlier. Stop a bit of anxiety, the previous representative of the parliamentary group was a more sophisticated man, he had an understanding of the second opinion and the opinion he didn't like, but he followed what tolerance, co-existence, he had the patience to listen. This nervousness -- and if you knew how nervous they were here last November, so you had to push the cards -- this is a card announcement, I guess, by this anxiety I'd say. So, dead end business, get away from this job, this is no good. Rest assured, you'll get licensed bankruptcy managers, and let me remind you of one part of the principle debate where the big question is open. If a company goes bankrupt, especially if it's a private property company, and if someone shuts down that company, it has to be done through court and court proceedings. All those involved in the court proceedings, meaning participants, must be defined by that law governing the case. You're pulling one participant out here and approaching the executive, because basically, the executive authority through your agency is going to decide who to license and who not to. Those licensed bankruptcy managers you plan to plant will be extended hands of the owner of that capital that formed you as a coalition. And that's proof of that, and that's what the Radio-Defense Council is for. It's been two and a half years since the job was done and they haven't shared anything yet. Soroš still can't be shared. There's co-existence, there's silent consent to what frequency it uses. Please remove the fog. This doesn't apply to bankrupt social enterprises. This will apply to private companies. As far as social enterprises are concerned, you're just about to set up an agency that's going to keep it down, that's why when the time comes. We are here to narrow it down, to point out in time what you have prepared, and when this third stage of destruction of the Serbian economy begins, to know that you are implementing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4812	Here you go, Milos Aligrudić, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4813	Mr. Krassic, I don't know what made you think I was nervous. What I've been saying has obviously upset you quite a bit, because I've established and proved what the motives of submitting these amendments are. I have successfully proven that it is an obstruction of Parliament's work, that the extension of the principled search in the work concerning the search in particular, that any amendment that is given to any provision of this bill, in practice, has only one function – to delete the member. The explanation of this amendment is practically an explanation of the search in principle. That's what I was talking about. If that bothers you and if that's your problem, don't justify yourself. Go out here and admit that it was your intention, as it is, so you will in this way best show the citizens of Serbia what your intentions are, how you work in this Parliament and how you treat legal proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4814	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4815	Mr Aligrudic, for this little time he was behind the pay phone, injured the Rules of Procedure, from preamble to Article 101. During his speech, I warned him not to jump, not to throw, since it was obvious that the chairman did not find it appropriate to do so. However, he used it as a replica. That's not the reason for the replica. This is the reason for one warning from the chairman - MP, calm down, be patient, go to the next room and cool down a bit, then come in, you're sad, you're new. You're an intern as president of a parliamentary group and we appreciate it all, and we're glad something's going on, but with so much heat and anxiety to come out for this pay phone and say that the amendment MP can't propose to delete a member, that's not true. The Assembly will adopt an amendment to Article 2 but will not adopt Article 15; it will not adopt Article 4. What will your law look like? Please, this way of voting has already shown that all decisions from here come to the grave, so they must come from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, or who knows where people come from and vote. However, one newspaper is introduced by this law. The newspaper is seen in the fact that it is likely that someone will become a licensed bankruptcy manager via the Internet. He'll probably be running a bankruptcy procedure online, too. But that's what you predicted. The law on electronic signature comes, which will also complete bankruptcy legislation, which is the legislation of general destruction in Serbia. That's why you're involved in political life. That's what guides you. Your owner is not in Serbia, your owner is the one who commands you – gather around so that you may be against it. You'll never be in. You can never define what you are, but what you are against. That's why today, when you come out, when you have no argument, you draw people who are in The Hague. Think about it. (Glass from the O.R.: You've mixed up the pots. I did not mistake the pots, but I took the mask off your faces, so that everyone could see who you are and what you are. It will become clearer and clearer every day, be assured of that. It doesn't help the licensing, or the mac, or the lurking, or the experts from the corner, or the billboard, it doesn't help anything. Remember, I warned them last March 18th last year and I told them – don't hate them and don't be afraid, you'll make a mistake. They wouldn't listen to me, and there they are in the back row.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4816	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4817	Our junior president of the DSS parliamentary group has been trying to teach us something that the rest of us have been teaching for 15 years and no one has taught us yet, and that is not to be part of the assembly work. It's not worth it. You've seen what the media image looks like in Serbia. When you pick up all the media and take them on your side, this is our only chance to tell you what we think about both the bill and the political situation. You blatantly violated the rights of the Members of the People with your speech. The chairman didn't warn you. We barely fought at the Constitutional Court to give us the right to discuss this pay phone. You, as president of the strongest parliamentary group, are here to honor these outings for the pay phone and say it's an obstruction. No, this is congregation work. Every amendment we make is congregation work. Don't make advance payments for travel arrangements, for vacations. You've scheduled an emergency session, hold the table for as long as it takes. Matter is serious. As soon as the title of the law is "demand," the matter is very serious. You could've said licensing couriers at the bankruptcy agency, for us, it's a serious matter. First member to delete. You're not going to be the first member. Let's go explain why the second member needs to be deleted. If there were 100 members, we would have submitted the amendments to 100. Now our function here is to fight against you, unlike everyone else. You have 82 MPs of the opposition and that bothers you. What would you like if you had 123-124, so it was thick. You are this strong, powerful and powerful, you have 170 MPs and you have power in this assembly and now you have 82 MPs in your way. You've got to hold on to this. And those who had been in power so far, and had not supported the opposition battle, fell from power. You didn't even come to power human. Now I'm telling these G17s plus, from the SPO and the NS, who are in power. You shall cherish the opposition in the National Assembly, for he who cannot deal with the opposition can neither with the people. That means there's more of you, you file a bill, you choose a bad time for the bill, it's like the house is on fire, like it was an emergency, and now hold on. Don't complain about us going out for a pay phone. Find some other reason to object. Never object to an MP as to why he went out for the assembly pay phone. It doesn't make sense, because if you forbid it, where we're going, what are we going to do, we're going to go to the street. You want to meet me on the street? How you started and what you hinted about next week, maybe we'll see each other on the street, and we'll be on the street, we won't hide and stay away, and you guys watch how you're gonna do it. So I recommend that we work together here in the Assembly, I do not recommend any other kind of cooperation, just co-operation in the Assembly. What I recommended to you so far, I recommended. So, to work together in the Assembly, it's your job to defend the law, it's ours to attack the law, it's yours to endure and there's always 84 of you in the O.R., because if there's not 84 there won't be a session. You want power? You want to decide people's fates, you want membership on boards, you want a trip abroad, you want power, you want to go out for a pay phone and you want to say, we solved the wheat problem, then you have to bear with the opposition. This people you spoke to about the price of wheat is not opposition. He's a danger if you don't put up with the opposition, because if you worked with us here to make Serbia better, then maybe we'd say what it takes to be the price of wheat, and this is how you stick your finger up your nose, in the eye of those who work (your nose, well, just to be right), your finger in the eye of those who want to work, because we do. And remember, it was the SPS, it was the Democratic Party, it's what you're doing now. Let it be as you predicted the result in the election. I've been following how we've been acting in the Assembly since 2000 and we're just growing the number of votes. I'm following how you behave and I see that your voice numbers are constantly dropping. Let it continue until the next election. The next election will be very soon. That is why I do not allow you to insult the MPs of the SRS who speak for this speaker, because it is their right and their obligation and the way that people see them. Many of them will be mayoral candidates and don't forget that.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4818	Replica, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4819	Mr. Nikolic, I agree with you that there should be a human relationship here between us and mutual respect and understanding. Understanding that there is an opposition political party who wants to perform after a pay phone and that it sets out under a bill and amendments submitted on a bill. I agree that amendments should represent the usual, normal way of responding to the draft law submitted by the authorised promoter. That's not what I'm talking about here. I was talking about something else, which is actually the function of these amendments. You say it's good for your political party and for the promotion of your future candidates in the local elections. That may be true, but I'm just warning that it's necessary without any restraint to say it, and here we'll agree very clearly, that that's what's in the function of submitting these amendments. It's either a political promotion of your political party or your opposition position at the moment. That's what's true in all of it, and I pointed to that, nothing else. As for the amendments themselves, we have found on the Legislative Committee that some of them are not functionally texted, not legally possible. Amendment Article 1 is not legally possible because it knocks down the entire law, an amendment that is required, for example. in transitional provisions to delete Article 15, which is stated – this law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of publication, is not functionally possible. So it's about that. I pointed that out and that's what I was talking about. As far as the right to speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it is true what you said, which is that someone in the previous National Assembly's meeting has quite significantly limited it. We who represent the congregation's majority, at least the Democratic Party of Serbia, do not think of such a right as to deny anyone. There is no reason why we would make the Rules of Procedure so that these rights are limited. Everything you talk about in the Rules of Procedure is legally possible and is essentially possible. The only question is how rational it is, how cellular it is. If you think it is all the same, as you explained, you do, but then it would be fair to have before every discussion of the details when this concept of submitting amendments appears, then, as we said today, we make it clear, so let the citizens of Serbia decide who is right and who best represents their interests. You said what you had to say, and I said mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4820	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4821	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I confess that the previous debate has provoked my participation in the discussion on the proposal for this amendment. We wanted to be rational today, and as SPS MPs, we didn't answer for a word, but we have submitted several amendments. I thought I'd skip this debate, but I'll say next. The general position of the SPS and MPs of that party in this assembly is going in that direction that one day should, and I think today, we should stop starting new agencies and new agencies. Does anyone in this room know how many of those agencies we have? You know, gentlemen of the ruling majority, which we Socialists support, isn't enough just for us to have some agencies that the previous government has set up by regulations, some government decisions to end, and then almost every law has an agency. Two key reasons why I think it should stop. Founding this agency costs 30 million dinars. I suspect that every year the agency will cost at least 30 million dinars; 30 million dinars are around 400,000 euros. I could name all of you at least 10 items or 10 short jobs that should be financed with 400,000 euros, not set up by the agency. If we were, for example. These 400,000 euros give that housing insurance corporation then we would have the opportunity to secure over 2m euros in housing loans from which to build apartments. If we were to stimulate export production with 400,000 euros, with, say, 10% of the amount of exports, then we would have increased exports by at least four million euros, etc. Therefore, fellow Aligrudic, it is not about this, but MPs in this assembly are using the possibility that by erasing Article 1 they actually say what they think about this law and that this law should not actually be passed. It is not only about obstruction and the need to go out for a pay phone and express the position, either personally or collectively, but it is a formal-law, business way of proposing not to adopt the law. There was this in the previous session, and there was no problem. As a rule, most people have rejected such suggestions, but we also have to think alternatively. If the Proposer does not accept the removal of Article 1 therefore insists that the law be passed, then we move on and we propose to amend that law, as was the case with the SPS amendments to Article 6 and Article 12 with the same or similar reasoning. Really, someone in this room has to answer me why the agency has to license bankruptcy managers, and that most of these powers are actually the business of the Ministry of Business. Why can't the Department of Economy do the job regularly, in accordance with the law. It could have been part of the bankruptcy law and had licensed managers, had professional, responsible, honest people, in which we would believe, who would be very effective in the bankruptcy process. It is not the only case where a license or a certificate of expertise or of meeting the conditions for someone to do a professional job. I could pull the parallel, I don't know if I'm quite right, say, with what? State or professional examinations carried out by state administration workers, i.e. administration. There is an expert commission in some competent ministry that asks these people and determines whether they meet the basic conditions of specific knowledge to do the job. The second is the story that a little bit has been imported into this and a cumulative obligation for a bankruptcy manager to be an entrepreneur at the same time. That was also controversial for me in the principle debate. Why would a bankruptcy administrator only have to deal with life, that is, having a registered company or a business agency to do such a job? It's about time we stopped the agencies and I'm finishing this story here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4822	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4823	By supporting this law against such an amendment. The document on the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation has 80,000 pages. You can imagine how much work we have ahead of us. We simply need to use some ossus and some of the standards used by all the countries of Southeast Europe, we need to coordinate our legislation and our procedures with the procedures of all the countries of the European Union. I hope that one day we will become the same; I say, because Serbia today, at least as far as legislation is concerned, in a situation like the coastal republics in late 1992 or early 1993, as the Slovak Republic was in 1996; and whether it will take us as Slovaks eight years or as Latvians, Lithuanians and Estonians 13 years to bring our legislation into line with Brussels legislation, it is up to us. We've got a big job ahead of us. The right of every MP to submit 100 amendments, to keep these amendments like this - to delete one member of the law, but it is our duty to warn this fact. It depends on us when we get to Europe, because we've got new competitors. The last communiqué of the European Council tells us that some of our new competitors have been invited to join the European Union. Croatia is no longer our competitor, it is far ahead of us. Our competitors are now the trapping republics, our competitors are Ukraine and Moldova. We can argue with each other as much as you want. The DSS will argue with other parties on various issues, but this must not mean that we will argue with the strategic interest of our country and our legislation, and I think the strategic interest is that there are independent institutions, accreditation bodies of professional character that do not depend on who is in power and who is in opposition. In many concrete situations, we must avoid politicising certain relations, both in other areas and in the economy and in the event of bankruptcy. Of course, there will be abuse, of course, that it takes several election cycles to get to a professional, professional and objective, depolitized accreditation body, but at this point, we are not going to end this accreditation body, or agency as the legislator calls it, we start this business, because if we don't start, we won't even finish soon. So, when we start, I think we're on track as other countries in Southeast Europe to form certain professional bodies, which will not depend on parties and that will be constant in our political life.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4824	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not good for an SRS MP to be prevented and prevented from working. We come from the economy, we represent our voters, or citizens of Serbia, and we follow closely and prepare for those points on the agenda. We are not without reason against this agency, but we are against because it will not in practice solve a number of problems. The bankruptcy manager is one of the entities who conducts bankruptcy proceedings and does not come from only him. We agree that a large number of problems in practice, that the bankruptcy process takes a long time, and I'm going to give you an example, maybe just that time period that you say is about seven years on average, but this time the president of the bankruptcy council has scheduled. Namely, it is the social enterprise "Inks - Drina" from Ljubljana, which was privatised several years ago, so the bankruptcy proceedings were conducted by the court in Valjevo, and due to the lack of awareness and inefficiency it was transferred to the Commercial Court in Belgrade. The president of the bankruptcy council, Gordana Arangelovic, scheduled the debate for July 9th, so she postponed the debate indefinitely, assumed until September, because she herself said she expected something to happen in September, that the opportunity would change and that she would then be able to judge. Now I'm afraid, or I believe my esteemed colleague, Veronica Radeta, was right. The minister of justice is one of the few ministers who deigns and comes to this assembly to listen to the MPs and deliver an opinion, to defend the law, but perhaps in that time he misses some control in the work of the courts. Maybe she should've seen that court work a little more efficiently here. That's where two groups of workers were created, and I as a folk MP and a man from that neighborhood of course don't want to stand on either side, but I want this problem to be resolved legally, to be resolved through one legal and judicial procedure, to get back to people who can work as soon as possible, because whenever they plan to invest the funds that are significant, they plan to hire 270 workers, but I wouldn't be able to analyze whether this is real. Finally, the value of the goods produced in the factory should be 30m euros annually, with 3.2m euros later invested in new investments in the factory. I'm here for the court to carry out this procedure as soon as possible, and then whoever's right to proceed and work with it. So, by introducing an agency to license bankruptcy managers, we're not going to solve a number of other essential problems, and then we should introduce, or form a trading court license agency. If we did that, we'd go a long way and have all the agencies. I agree with fellow Prophetovic that there are about 70,000 pages of regulations and we should bring them in line, but we must take care of the conditions in which we live and be applicable to the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4826	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4827	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the law on bankruptcy and the law on the agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers is a positive shift in resolving many open issues in a court procedure that is burdensome to date and conducted bankruptcy proceedings. These two laws should be observed in parallel with the Privatisation Act, where economic operators are given the opportunity to ensure that their poor financial and dysfunction and the obligation to initiate the privatisation process can be regulated in an efficient manner, as prescribed in the law and to comply their business with the standards set by modern Europe and the European Union, therefore, by these principles and standards. However, for those economic operators who are incompetent or who, due to their internal conflicts, cannot participate and initiate the privatisation process, or the politicised forces knowingly prevent the privatisation process, there is another procedure to prevent the transfer of social property into private pockets. On the other hand, a new standard is introduced and a new criterion for all persons who will participate in the proceedings pending before the court in connection with the bankruptcy initiated. I believe that it is not enough reason that the European Union expects us to create better conditions for the implementation of the bankruptcy procedure and to prevent the destruction of the substance, and it has economic operators and it is not enough for the licensing of bankruptcy managers to be carried out through agencies, where the government is indeed still having a direct and dominant influence. I am just for an even more liberal concept, where bankruptcy managers would have their own chamber, organized on the principles of self-government of those people who already have a bankruptcy license and who would choose boards themselves and bring their own statutes about their business and establish standards, as well as ethics in the conduct of bankruptcy procedures, something like that to lawyers. In this way, bankruptcy managers would be entities involved in the bankruptcy proceedings before the competent trade court. In this way, the bankruptcy agency can be managed by the competent ministry, it can carry out part and some political decisions depending on the composition of the government itself, and I therefore believe that this agency represents only a transitional form in an even more complete, even more professional approach to the organisation of bankruptcy managers, their licensing and the acquisition of opportunities to carry out this profession. It is also necessary in a more complete and democratic, transparent manner to monitor bankruptcy proceedings, since our experience shows that many bankruptcy proceedings have been misused and that there is an abuse primarily of power in bankruptcy proceedings, which is calculated on the destruction of social property; we have had very politicised procedures in certain cases, when dominant local or republican authorities influence the course and duration of bankruptcy proceedings, which can also result in damages, above all, creditors. That is why I expect this law to be supported by the parliamentary majority, and the Democratic Party will also support this law and bankruptcy law. We believe that this is a contribution to better functioning of the legal and judicial system and that it creates a greater possibility for democratic identification of economic operators in the choice of whether it will be defined for privatisation or, in another way, to ensure the state through this procedure from abuse, from obstruction in privatisation, but also to prevent the growth of social capital and the spilling of social capital into private pockets, due to non-functional enterprises and abuse of powers in bankruptcy proceedings and by those entrusted with the management of social capital. So we will fully support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4828	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4829	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which implies erasing that member and it is clear that the function of this amendment is not in any way any obstruction or political promotion. This is about us being in principle against the agencies. If you had accepted the amendment to Article 1, then the amendment to Article 2 would not have been necessary. We simply want to stop this mania of agency creation, given that this country has been transformed into a country of some agencies, where factories are being closed, agencies are opening up, where production is being shut down and bureaucracy is being strengthened. We want to point out that everything this agency has to do could have been done by the Ministry. The second thing is that someone now wants to say that so far the work of some state institutions that were participants in the bankruptcy process has been very bad. If that was bad work, then that work needs to be fixed, and it's not going to add any new bureaucratic apparatus, especially since no one can justify that this agency is going to cost 30 million dinars, and then someone comes out and says -- well, it's a small agency, it costs only 30 million dinars, plus donations. These things are quite clear, and what's most important is the creation of this parallel state; trying to train bankruptcy managers now, and saying that they were stealing, malversion and so on, and now that you're training them, I'm afraid that's why all the factories are going to go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4830	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4831	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendment requires that Article 2 be deleted, which reads: "The Agency has a legal personality with rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by law. The Agency shall operate in accordance with public service regulations. The agency's headquarters is in Belgrade. The agency has an account. "This last stance is likely to have an account to spend 30 million dinars from the Republika Srpska budget on the work of this agency. The whole story about the agency, the bankruptcy means that the proposer, or government, simply wants to create a branch of the economy, and the bankruptcy manager to become an occupation or craftsman. If we take into account the state of our economy, how many companies are already in pre-bank or bankruptcy proceedings, the way in which the licensing of bankruptcy managers is performed, the way the authorities of the licensing agency will form and the way in which you will, through bankruptcy, do what you failed to do in the privatisation process to donate to someone, is the problem. That's why the SRS endures this number of amendments, because we want to say not to you, because you know it all, but to the citizens of Serbia what is coming to them. We believe that this speaker is the best place to tell citizens what attitudes the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such as the SRS, is to tell citizens that they no longer trust the promises made easily and that the next time in some parliamentary elections, I trust the extraordinary ones, which will soon be, make sure who they vote for when they go to the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4832	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment.. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose not to accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4833	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to look back on what Mr. Prophetovic said in his presentation earlier. He said the agencies established by these laws are accredited bodies that should be depolitized, if I understood it. Please explain to me what kind of body is depoliticized, this agency you set up by this law, if the board of directors, the Supervisory Board and the Director are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not depoliticized, it's all under government control, or a state-run policy. As for Article 3 and the amendment submitted by counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic, this amendment requires the removal of a third member. Why? The third member of this bill has been defined by the operations carried out by this agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. I said in the principle debate, the most important thing about these jobs is business. These tasks are entrusted by the Ministry of Business to the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. I wonder why the Ministry trusts those jobs? I claim that the Ministry of Human Resources, both spatially and in any other way, has been trained to carry out these tasks. If these jobs are excluded from the Ministry, what's left for the Ministry to do in this domain? The ministry should prepare the program, the conditions under which bankruptcy managers will pass the exams. If the Ministry does, then why doesn't it conduct the exams? Why not organise an examination of these candidates, and they are questioned by the Commission of the Ministry and then by the Commission, or the Ministry of License, but now the Ministry will prepare a training programme, i.e. a programme of examinations, and the Agency will carry out an examination of the candidates and issue a licence. Speaking of licenses, the term itself is very clumsy and unfortunately used, not only here, but also in other laws. If the licence is obtained by passing the exam, how can a license be withdrawn? It's like when you graduate from college, so someone takes away your degree because of your unconscious work. It was supposed to be a happier way to regulate it. Perhaps the work permit, but the licence, or document obtained by passing exams, cannot be withdrawn. He must have a lasting character. If a later check of the level of knowledge is to be carried out, it may be okay, but to withdraw a license for someone because of some mistake in the work he's doing, it does not stand if that document is obtained by checking knowledge, or by examination. All the jobs listed here are jobs that can and should be done by the Ministry of Industry and by mahogany are tasks of a technical nature. We believe that all these jobs can be very adequate, very capable of performing and the Ministry of Economy, that this is why we should not form an agency, especially in these conditions when we do not have enough money for those basic needs, without talking about these luxurious matters for the state in this situation, establishing a series of different agencies that will only spend money from the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4834	Thank you. The word has a minister, so the MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will answer only a few of the problems that are highlighted here, and I don't think they are properly highlighted. This is where the question arises - why does every law follow the agency? I'm not sure we can argue whether this or that number of agencies is needed depending on the area in which they are formed. But to say so casually that every law follows the agency, I disagree. I'm not going into the other ministries, I'm talking about my ministry, no law follows the agency, even those who follow, there'll be a total of 20, none of them following the agency. So let's not say these things on a flat-rate basis, but just in case it should be said -- I don't think it should, there are agencies in that case... There's also a question -- why isn't the state doing it, Ministry? Usually the departments don't get to do all the work that comes into their jurisdiction. This isn't the only case where a certain job is entrusted. You have a number of jobs that the departments trust with other bodies or institutions, especially if it is given that the intensity is reversed from the one that is pointed out here. If, over time, what this law wants to achieve, to obtain a sufficient number of truly professional bankruptcy managers, this would move on to a professional association that would do this job and de facto would no longer be a trusted job; so, if they do it properly, they will be able to establish their own professional association (as you have craft associations, etc.). And that job will move on them. It's said, "Why are you giving and withdrawing a license?" All the conditions that are listed are just predicting those conditions that we need to meet to get a license. First of all, he doesn't have to get it. Second, it can lose it, if any of these conditions fall out, it doesn't work right and it does, for example. He loses the status of entrepreneurs, he loses his license. Therefore, it cannot be permanently given. One question that is personal to me: here it is asked in a certain way a correct question as to why I am sitting here as a minister, instead of sitting in the Ministry and doing possibly some other business, related to that company that was mentioned. I'd agree with you. Unfortunately, under the Ministry Act, only a minister can come here. I know the laws of physics, and I won't accept that I can vote or do jobs from Bodrum or anything like that, so I'm still gonna do one job at a time. In principle, I want to remove the doubt that has come to this question. A valid service was established in the ministry and this ministry as it said and acted. On every proposal, we've taken measures, so-called. administrative surveillance and, as far as I know, there's still no case that we haven't acted. There's a fact that this takes my time, that I can't be in the Ministry, but on the other hand, we've arranged the service well enough to do these jobs that we've been talking about. Don't ask me to do two jobs at the same time without being physically possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4836	The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4837	Thank you. I asked for a replica because I was mentioned and because I was misinterpreted. The trend the DSS advocates is to depoliticalise what is politicised in Serbia. There is no need to politicise professional bodies, no need to politicise some of the organs in which professionals should sit, in which people from parties should not sit. The parties are variables, they change. You're in power today, in opposition tomorrow. The bodies that must exist as constant are those bodies that will represent state institutions, which will work professionally and responsibly, no matter who is in power, who is in opposition. The government also appoints a Council to fight corruption. Has the government's change in Serbia changed anyone in the Anti-Corruption Council? Does that advice work less intensely? No, I don't. It's all the same. We need more bodies like that. Of course there will be abuse. There are abuses in all other countries in the world, but we must minimize these abuses. Many things have been politicised in Serbia. Once the political issue was the rector's choice, the choice of dean in college, today is no longer a political issue. It was left to the profession, people who work at universities to do it. Once upon a time, the political question was to ask the principal of schools. Today, the political issue is not, or much less, than it was. Many other people, not just political parties, are involved in the decision-making process. This way we must continue in order for the state and its institutions to work under stable circumstances and for agencies, or the authorities of the administration, to be at the service of citizens, regardless of who is in power and who is in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-06-0.u4838	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Veroljub Arsic, you are reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Since we're quite close to 1800 hours, we're finishing today's work and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
