ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the outset to inform you, on the basis of Article 24(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there has been a change in the DS parliamentary group. The president of the parliamentary group was appointed Dusan Petrovic, a national MP. I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 204 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall and, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Marko Krstin, Goran Paunović, Gašo Knezevic, Goran Svilanovic, Anita Beretic, Slobodan Mihajlović, Snezana Lakićevic-Stojačić and Goran Knezevic (before noon). In accordance with Article 80(2) and Article 81(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, and within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I would like to inform you that Dusan Petrovic has resigned as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you he's a member of 33. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provide that, in the event of the resignation, the Vice-President of the National Assembly shall cease office in a manner designed for the termination of office of the President of the National Assembly, meaning that, in accordance with Article 29. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not open a search, nor do they decide, but the end of the post of vice presidents on this basis is merely being determined. In accordance with Article 29(3) and in relation to Article 33(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly found that Dusan Petrovic resigned as vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to thank Dusan Petrovic on your behalf and on behalf of you for his role as Vice-President of the National Assembly. You were presented the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 15 November 2004. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Administrative Board has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 15 November 2004. For 125, it did not vote 60, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, held 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 15 November 2004. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for the urgent procedure, on a proposal to merge the debate and on a proposal to change the order of each item of the agenda. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on reproductive material of forest trees, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 November 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, they did not vote 62, a total of 187 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending the publication law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 64, a total of 189 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft e-signature law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, they did not vote 62, a total of 188 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 63, a total of 189 MPs, were not voted for 126. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, it did not vote 66, a total of 191 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure against war crimes offenders, which was filed by the National Assembly on 19 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 65, a total of 189 MPs, did not vote for 124. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 66, out of 192 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on life insurance premium tax was put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted 67, out of 193 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123, he did not vote 71, out of 194 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on the allocation of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2004, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 123, he did not vote 71, out of 194 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Privatisation Agency's law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2004, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 124, 70 of the 194 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Government, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 99, against 21, abstention three, he did not vote 71, out of 194 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on public agencies, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 51, against 64, with three abstentions, did not vote 75, out of 193 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. In five, against 118, it was not 71, of 194 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Post Office Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 42, against 119, 35 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the proposal for a tourism law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 November 2004, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 8, against 117, he did not vote 71, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Securities Commission proposed that, as an emergency procedure, a report on the operation of the 2003 Commission for Securities (with the annual account and the report of the authorised auditor), which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2004, be placed on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 75, against 116, six out of 197 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Securities Commission proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the 2004 Commission’s Financial Plan for Securities be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 77, against 121, three of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MPs Meho Omerovic, Milan Markovic, Vjerica Radeta, Marko Krstin, Milisav Petronijevic and Goran Rakovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision to amend the Committee's decision on the Education of the Survey to determine the facts and circumstances in the elections for the Belgrade City Assembly, held on 19 September 2004, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2004. Before I put it to the vote, I apologize, I forgot to realize that when it comes to the need to extend the deadline to all committees of inquiry, it just extends. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 13, against 103, four abstentions, 80 of the 200 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the SRS MPs proposed that, in an urgent process, the draft decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts and legality of the conduct of the competent state authorities in the privatisation process of the company Knjiz Milos from Arangelovac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 143 against 54, the two abstentions, were not voted by three, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 87, against 113, two of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 82 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested putting the draft law on the agenda of the Law on Planning and Construction, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 67, against 130, they did not vote four out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 November 2004. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 65, against 122, with three abstentions, it did not vote 11 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 33 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Boris Tadic, on the basis of Article 158(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed that the agenda of this session be put on the agenda -- the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 196, against one, a abstentioned one, were not voted by three, of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Proposal for a Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the Proposal for a Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and the Proposal for a Law on Environmental Protection (Points 5, 6, 7 and 8). Then, the joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxation of Citizens (point 10 of the proposed Agenda), the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Assets (point 11 of the proposed Agenda), the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises (point 12 of the proposed agenda), the Proposal for a Law on Fiscal Casses (point 13 of the proposed agenda), and the following drafts of the Law (if the National Assembly in determining the agenda of the sitting accepts them to be included in the agenda under an emergency procedure and accepted by: the draft law on the settlement of obligations of the Republic of Serbia to the National Bank of Serbia (point 14 of the proposed agenda), the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on contributions to compulsory social security and the draft law on non-life insurance tax. Then, a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and the Bill on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, after the Assembly adopted such an urgent proposal. Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 124, v. 74, abstention one, were not voted by three, of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Miloljub Albianic suggested that if the National Assembly accepts, when setting the agenda for the session, additional items to be placed on the agenda, the order of the agenda, so that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders (point 15 of the proposed agenda) is the final item of the agenda of this session. Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 122, against one, with two abstentions, did not vote 75, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for emergency procedure, the merger of debates and the change of order of individual points, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. For 125, against 68, it did not vote seven out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on reproductive material of forest trees, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on publication of publications submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 3. Proposal for an e-signature law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 5. Proposal for a Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a law on strategic environmental impact assessment, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 7. Proposal for a law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 9. Proposal for a law on the termination of certain laws, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 13. Proposal for a law on fiscal cash registers, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 14. Proposal for a law on the reconciliation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 16. Proposal for a tax on non-life insurance premiums submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 18. Proposal for a law on the distribution of transfer funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the participation of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade in profit tax in 2005, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 19. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 20. Proposal for a Government Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 21. Proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts and legality of the conduct of the competent state authorities in the privatisation process of the company "Knjaz Milos" from Arangelovac, which was submitted by a group of 82 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, 22. The election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from a group of 33 MPs of the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic; 23. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, which was filed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As proposals for the examination of acts under emergency procedure have been accepted, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports during the session. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare the consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Work according to the established agenda of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Reproductive Material of the Forest Tree You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MP Dragan Petrovic on the bill. Amendments to be submitted to the Rules of Procedure until the start of the search will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: Serbian Radical Party one hour 38 minutes 24 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, Democratic Party – Boris Tadic 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus 37 minutes 12 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia 26 minutes 24 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia 26 minutes and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MPs of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Democratic Party, at five minutes, according to Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For this item of the agenda, the authorised DSS representative is Jovan Nikolic, DS - Boris Tadic - Milan Markovic and SPS - Brance Stojanovic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the proposing official, Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, minister of agriculture, forestry and water industry want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on the reproductive material of forest trees is a new law that has not existed so far in our legislation, since the area of production of forest seed and fruit material has been regulated by the applicable Seed and Fruit Material Act, together with agricultural seed and fruit material. The reasons for the adoption of a new law are: the specificity of the production of forest reproductive material compared to agricultural materials; then, the need for clearer and more precise definition of this area, as well as the need for our inclusion in the European market for forest reproductive material and, accordingly, of course, the harmonisation of our regulations with European Union regulations. For your information, the production of forest seed is carried out in 288 registered seed facilities, and the production of cutters, poplars and willows in 36 registered parent plants. Some 24,500 forest seedlings are produced in Serbia annually, and capacity for production is estimated to be around 42,500. The paper in the law, compared to the current Seed and Fruit Act, is that the new law introduces four new categories of reproductive material, in accordance with the OECD and European Union classification, and that material of known origin, selected material, qualified material and tested material. Exactly the types of forest trees to which this law applies are defined and listed in Article 3 of the Law. Also defined are the regions of the implementation. These regions of implementation indicate the buyer of reproductive material in which the material is produced, which means the ecological conditions are appropriate. Reproductive material of known origin and selected reproductive material shall also be established. The production of the reproductive material of forest plants can also be done by registering entrepreneurs and legal persons. As regards production control, instead of the two so far, one production control will be carried out annually, and the obligation to comply with the standards prescribed by the International Seed Testing Association will be introduced. The law will provide a full record of what we have on the seed and fruit market, so that the planning of certain works in forestry can be carried out accordingly, as well as the necessary resources for these works. The expected effects of the new law are, above all, the protection of domestic plant genetic resources and the production of quality reproductive material, which will enable the rise of quality forests, well adapted to habitat conditions, as well as the path towards the realisation of the provisions of the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, under which it is planned to raise noise in central Serbia from 27% to 37% and from 6% to 11% in Vojvodina. It is also considered that the protection of the customer's interest will be better, as it has been established that it is mandatory for the competent authority to provide an efficient system of control of the production, processing and transport of reproductive material to the final consumer and, of course, that we will be able to come to the European market for forest reproductive material, since the law is harmonised with European Union regulations. I urge you to vote for this law. We've taken so much from the woods, it's time to start paying them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9484	I thank the Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (The Agriculture Committee - Dragan Rafaelovic, Vice-President of the Committee and the Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudic, Chairman of the Committee) No. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Nikolic, representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9485	Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased to be able to defend this law. I know that in public and in citizens, this law is not seen as strategically important, but it is extremely important for this area. What is very good, this law is written in a good, quality and comprehensive way. The matter, which is very important and can give very significant economic effects, is one way compatible with European legislation. This law, which is very important, is in the function of protecting and improving the environment, because it goes towards raising the quality of seeds of forest plants, and thus we get more quality ingredients, which should be the goal, I believe, and that it is, our country, as well as any serious and responsible state. I say, this law is written in a comprehensive way, technically very clear. We have new concepts that are clearly defined. It fully monitors the production of fruit material, quality control and traffic. At the end of the law there are also those safeguards, i.e. criminal provisions for those who do not comply with these new rules. This law is also necessary, when we talk about forest species, for the reason that it has not been defined in the best possible way so far, in that old Seed and Fruit Law, where the matter has been covered with agricultural plants, and the problem is not the same. There is a need for special legislation, which is now on the agenda, to treat forest species. I said the law, in my opinion, is almost technically impeccable. It is divided into 10 chapters, which in one logical series explain under which conditions anyone can handle production, who controls production and which are sanctions for those who do not comply with the letters of this law. The paper of this law is that, instead of, as so far, natural persons who have been producing, among other things, seedlings and seeds of forest species, they must now be legal persons, i.e. companies that have to be registered. Therefore, registration is carried out at the ministry, i.e. one serious database is started: whoever is producing, the list of objects where the production is done and the area on which the production is carried out. When we talk about the quality of the seeds, then it is also clearly defined in this law which criteria must be respected. Of course, they must be in line with our quality standards, but not only with our own, but also with the quality standards prescribed by the International Seed Testing Association, which is very important, because the consequence of all this is that those who are now engaged in production will have the necessary quality to come to the European market, which is certainly one big chance. There's a lot more money in this area than it's ever been before. Now, with the opening of the European market, we are entering an even match and with other countries that have far better results, so there remains open space for a private initiative in this area. You shouldn't forget the effect that the state can have, because you're so-called. high ingredients, i.e. quality forest ingredients, are mostly owned by the state, so that the state, if better organised, can have significantly greater effects. All in all, excellent law, very important law for this area. I am sure that citizens do not see this law as strategically important, but it is very important that we have for every area, even when we talk about the area of forestry, quality laws that open up the European market and other markets to us, and that in an equal game we have the necessary quality to impose ourselves on that market and to achieve financial effects both for our country and for our society. The DSS will support the law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9486	The word comes from MP Brance Stojanovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9487	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just say a few words, that is, to say the SPS' position on this law. From the predecessors we heard, it's an important law, which the SPS will support and vote for it. The colleague said mostly the advantages that make it important to pass the law, it is important to separate it from the fruit material of the agricultural plant, it is important that it treats an important area, an area of forestry. Foresting is a very important branch of our economy and agriculture, and on behalf of the SPS, I submitted an amendment when we adopted the budget, i.e. our wish was to define some of the resources and to use a dangerous pest that we can contain in our forests in an appropriate way. We have reason to withdraw my amendment then, and there has been a promise from the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister that from the current budget reserve, if the need arises, some funds will be allocated. The production of quality seed is the beginning of a plan to raise certain areas under the forests annually, and what we value in front of the SPS as very important and significant, and we want to join the idea of people who lead this resort and return to areas that were about 80 years under the forests. The important segment of this law is that it is defined, and I hope that the future ministry will work on it, and that certain varieties, such as Pancic's submarine, will not blame me experts, an endemic species for our area. As far as I have information, Germany has a certificate for the production of this, and not to repeat itself and not to go in this area as in some other areas of agriculture, and such as unprotected plum, and protected by Austrians, etc. These are all the reasons that are in line with this law and that the SPS will support this law. What else do I want on behalf of the SPS here to say? I don't think it's a good thing this is the first law in the field of agricultural production. He's important and significant and I think he has more important things, more important things that this area is treating. There is a consensus in the Assembly that agriculture is a branch that is very important and in some ways we, who are involved in politics, always swear on agriculture in these pre-election events. Unfortunately, after a long time since the government was formed, we have only one law, and there are many unresolved matters in this area. Agriculture is in a very difficult state. I'm not saying it's because of this government, I'm sure it's not. We expect this government to face a number of problems that are pressing this area. I appeal to the assembly speaker for the resolution ministry to enter more seriously, and I know the definition of the ministry and I generally support it. The strategy for the development of agricultural production was made, etc., and the desire was and it was not bad, I support it, but we expect other laws that will little to edit this area. I mean the Agricultural Land Act, the Cooperatives Act, something that is not directly related to the Ministry of Agriculture, and it's about the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation, which is the Privatisation Act. On the Committee on Agriculture, I asked the Ministry for one piece of information, i.e. the Committee to take a position on what the situation is generally seen in agricultural enterprises, i.e. combinations that remain the bearers of some agricultural development. Unfortunately, these combinations that are in a very difficult situation, all the economic capacities are mainly within these and such combinations. I think that some amendments to the Privatisation Act in the field of agriculture are necessary and necessary, because the situation is very difficult, not to say catastrophic. I know that there is a willingness in the Ministry to talk, which is the adoption of a regulation on the use of state land, and the Ministry must initiate the adoption of such a regulation, if it is not already something more concrete. The situation in Serbia is such that, within these large systems and large combinations, more significant areas are state land, and since they are combined in a very difficult situation, I fear that in a few years, if we don't get together, and above all, the ministry is dealing with these problems, we will be in a situation where we need to talk about decommissioning certain areas in order to start agricultural production, because they unfortunately haven't been processed for several years, and professional people know what it means for the field if it isn't processed enough and that there is a risk that some, which requires additional funds to come out. Therefore, in the end, the SAA will support the adoption of this law and we are initiating the adoption of important laws in the area of agriculture, in order to bring this important area into a better situation. She's very difficult right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9488	The word has been made by the MP, head of the SRS MPs' club, Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is in such a situation that MPs belonging to the opposition are tasked with criticising both the laws of the seemingly good and opening four eyes and looking for what is wrong with them, and apparently MPs of the ruling majority do not engage in any proposal that comes to them here. It's visible from day to day, from hour to hour. We have a law before us that someone would have to say is good because it regulates the area seemingly regulated, unregulated, and you know that behavior does not depend on whether an area is regulated by law, but on how the law is implemented on the ground. Europe has said that we need to make some law, so that we, too, on some market, start selling some goods that we will now, under this law, produce. What's going on in the Serbian woods right now? An almost inconspicuous leper has mastered the woods. For the Ministry of Forests almost undetectable. I don't know what else was going to happen to start some plaque-sticking action in the villages where the peasants are cleaning their trees, and now they're starting to show us the situation of some lepers in the woods. I don't know what it's like in other parts, but I know in Shumadi, because I use Saturdays and Sundays to spend in the woods. I've long noticed and learned from the peasants I've been hanging out with how much the monster took. I remember, I was a child, when we were taken from primary schools, from high schools, when students were taken to the woods in a physical way, and it seems to be more effective, we're removing the leper from the woods, to save that little forest that was then a great fortune. I admit, as we run the woods long ago, our forests aren't much of a treasure. It's enough to get out of every city five kilometers, any road leading into the woods, you'll see the devastating consequences of taking care of our forests. It's all cut. As the hosts ruled the forests, they were cut down and cut down by ropes, the wrong tree, which was not expected to make any progress, the forests were cut down by axes, so they had to spend days and days in the woods to cut down enough wood. Now, motor saws have come in like automatic rifles. They've got whole areas falling under the woods and there's an opportunity for us to get one day an area that will be exposed to such erosions and floods that we won't be able to defend ourselves from it. Now, I can suspect, because I am in opposition, and because I know those who represent the legislators of this law, I mean the Serbian government as a whole, I don't want to single out the minister, someone might single out the minister himself, and it's said, "until one day it gets dark, the other one gets lighted up." We have a leper decimating the woods. Will there be work now for those who produce material regulated by this law? If it will be, to confess - it should be regulated by law. But how am I supposed to go from Article 10, not to go before, how this professional recognition business of the source material, the Ministry can trust a company or another legal person who has an employee of a forest engineer with at least three years of work experience and that, based on Article 12(3), it decides that genetically modified starting material does not pose a risk to human health and the environment. The whole world's science is disputed over how dangerous genetically modified the starting material is, and I'm closer, as a man who would like to live on a healthy planet, to believe those who say we should run away from it like a devil from the cross, and you are legally predicting in article 12 that it will be included in the register of starting material and genetically modified material for which some forest engineer, who has three years of training and passed a professional exam, finds that he is not a danger to human health and the environment. Now, I can't believe you and I won't believe you, and wherever I find those words of "genetically modified material" I'll suspect this government has its fingers involved. Because this government has benefited greatly from it in time. The question is: Is there any use to it today? In principle, production is done by one who has an engineer of forestry with two years of training, recognition with three, control with two years of work, and we're going to be aware of the god of the state who actually won't have any control over it because I know that the Ministry isn't qualified and that all these jobs will, in principle, be entrusted to anyone who's registered and has an engineer, can be entrusted to him. Or maybe someone from the Ministry will know all the forest engineers, and they'll say, "This guy can control and this guy can't exercise control." So also in the inspectorate – three years of experience, an inspector who controls under Article 43, and in Article 44, I have the right to, there is an interesting point of view 3) to prohibit the placing on the market of non-reproductive reproductive material, not properly packaged, not in the original original packaging, no declaration, no corresponding to the prescribed and declared quality or whose quality is not established in the prescribed manner. The appeal made to the solution at this point shall not delay the execution of the solution. And you have now placed in one point material that has no evidence of quality and material that is not properly packaged. Isn't it better if the inspector says it on the spot -- you put this in another box, because it's quality, it has origin, it's recognised, you just put it in this box and keep doing it, but that inspector will bring a solution, the manufacturer will complain to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, most likely to the Administrative Committee, if I remember, but what about his material, does it say here which powers are, will it destroy it? Is he going to confiscate him and take him to some warehouse where he's going to fail? Are you actually going to close it with those people that don't suit you? I know when the government takes a look at a manufacturer, she sends him a sanitary inspection every day, so he doesn't write to him – working hours, he doesn't write on the toilet – male and female, and they punish him every day every day. Why so rigorous? To the solution that the goods are not properly packaged – which means they are not properly packaged, each material in one box, five materials in a larger box, 20 in an even bigger box, and if not met – a ban on traffic, and you later complain. And if it's hours or days when you can sell goods, the goods are gone. In principle, I am for everything to be regulated, but look at how many areas of life are unregulated. See only how many trees are sold on Saturdays in Serbia's cities. Did your inspectors find out if there's a hammer of wood on every tree that's responsible for that? Did you put a traffic ban there? Did you confiscate material that wasn't properly marked? Did you file a report? I wish you'd filed a report on the state of your forest. Did you ever, except by helicopter, go to some forest to see that misery and that misery? We now call the woods casseroles, shrubs. Are there more materials in our forests than can be produced furniture? Are there any nuts that can be made for a rifle? There isn't. We're cutting down an immature tree and you're aware of it. When it's destroyed for nothing to change government. If your approach is to fix everything in Serbia, I agree that you will also fix it by law, not improve the situation on the ground if that is possible, because it is a terrible situation. Ask the foresters and ask the Vojvodinas what they are doing and are you agreeing that Serbian forests are divided into Vojvodina and Serbia. Do you agree with the division of the Vojvodina and Serbia pipelines and whether any control has stopped at that time? I ask you, who is in control in the Vojvodina of the forests to which the Vojvodina, a company that has never been formed, is to be mastered. There's too much trouble just to brag about something. So please remove the doubts we have. I think it would be the minister's duty to remove in public terms the suspicions we have, that the law could be discussed in some other way. I'm basically for regulation. I expect a lot of laws. I don't think this was for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9490	Mr. Nikolic, do you use another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9491	I'm done, Mr. Angelkovic. I didn't expect you to defend the authority of the assembly that much. I'm finishing up and count it as if I've been saying it all along. So the SRS parliamentary group is opposition, they won't vote for this bill, but in order to know what we're going to do with that law in public, I ask you to consider the objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9492	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Milan Markovic, authorised representative of DS-Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9493	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, the law that lies before us today is really nothing epochal, and I don't think it deserves any special discussion. It is simply something that is more technical and for us from the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club there are no special dilemmas, not in terms of the content of the law, nor in terms of the need to pass such a law. What we discussed at our Parliament club concerns the overall impact of the Ministry of Agriculture and it is really unacceptable for us that after these eight months you, as Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, appear in front of the National Assembly with only this law. Namely, our opinion is that the state of agriculture in Serbia is very bad today, that I would not now use the word catastrophicly, but that, of course, is the situation that leads slowly towards a worse situation, which in some later effect may have this effect that we cannot achieve Serbia's balance needs. It even seems to me that we may not meet the balance of sugar tail requirements in the coming year, since you have abolished subsidies. So our question towards you and this discussion is more focused on these issues of broader character from your domain, and since I do not know when you will next appear before the National Assembly, you will allow me to tell you a few elements on which we are based our confidence, which we support our position that the Ministry of Agriculture does not deserve further trust in this National Assembly. So what happened in those ten years from 1990 to 2000 was, there is no need to discuss it specifically. What is a fact is that the prices of agricultural products are depressed and that in this way a continuity of agricultural production has been well questioned, investments have been reduced, and as soon as investments have been reduced, both quality and production have been reduced, and production per hectare. There's no need to talk about the equipment mechanism, it's over 20 years old, and as far as investment capacity is concerned, it practically doesn't exist. What's been going on since 2000? Despite some momentum in 2000, 2001, 2002, we have in 2003 and 2004 when prices of agricultural products have not changed at all, and from 2001 to 2004, statistics record the following: price rises to low 80 percent; euro rate growth 24%; stagnation and decline of basic agricultural prices. Individually observed fuel D2 79 percent more expensive; electricity 169 percent; plant protection products over 200 percent; mineral fertilisers 5-10 percent; spare parts 40 percent; labour costs over 200 percent, resulting from salary increases. What's crucial to me, it's a question in general of your strategy, or the idea of how agriculture should develop in this country. A strategy not based on the fact that agriculture should simply be left to the market, although we all advocate a liberal economy and a free market, when it comes to agriculture is not adequate, nor is it suitable not only for our country, but also for agriculture as a branch of production. You know, and I will say, for the sake of the public, that agriculture in the environment, and in particular EU countries, has more subsidies per hectare than our producers of the value of production per hectare. Their subsidies are so great, i.e. State aid in agricultural production. We don't have adequate export stimulation. On the other hand, we have large companies, we have strong associations of processors, buyers, etc., who simply, using this monopoly position, bring primary agricultural producers into the position that they are being blackmailed that their agricultural products are either spilling or seeking justice before the Serbian government, block highways etc. There's a problem that I don't even know how you think you're going over next year, since this year you haven't fought for adequate funds for the Ministry of Agriculture, and especially for what it is, the issue of subsidies. Imports of products from abroad, which are produced on the domestic market, are not worth talking about, I will only say one example. When the price of tomatoes was 52 dinars, if I'm not mistaken, on the market, then there was some imports of multiple car tomatoes from Macedonia and the price of tomatoes fell to 30 dinars, and our production tomatoes cost 38 dinars. We were automatically at a loss. These are far more serious problems than whether or not we are going to discuss here today a law that needs to be passed and that no one here in the National Assembly is disputed. At least I haven't heard in these previous discussions. To conclude, it's not a questionable law, this law is perfectly fine. It's more of a technical and professional thing than anything else, but what it is to us is questionable whether you as the Ministry of Agriculture have a strategy, are you aware of these problems that I've been talking about and do you think for all these eight months the effect of the Ministry of Agriculture should be just this law that we have here on the agenda today?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9494	Mr. Markovic, you're being warned on the subject all the time, but you're the only one who can continue what you started. Zoran Nikolic, MP, but, I'm sorry, the minister asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9495	Dear gentlemen, especially the MPs of the opposition, I thank you for your interest in agriculture. At first we say that agriculture is an important thing for Serbia and of course I expect a consensus on agriculture and your support. Professional and technical support, political support, of course, is a matter of every single one of you. I would like to say that this ministry is doing great, that there has never been a better ministry in Serbia, that in nine months we cannot fix what has been destroyed in Serbia's agriculture and in this sense we will solve it the same way as we do in this law, professionally and technically, and we leave the policy to the political consensus. What really amazes me is the discussion of colleagues from the DS, who in three years have not passed a single law, until they were in the ministry with a strategy. Our strategy, I would recommend that he read it before he discusses it, and I thank you for other constructive proposals and, of course, to Mr Nikolic, who, on a personal occasion every weekend, will show how to clean a leper in the woods.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9496	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Nikolic then has a replica of MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9497	Very short. So, Article 100, the MP is obliged to treat this Parliament with respect. It's not right to go out and talk on a whole other topic. Today, forestry is on the agenda, not agriculture, and speaking of agriculture, it's really, I don't know how to say it, but it doesn't matter, it's really inappropriate, so let's say that someone from the DS is talking about the development of agriculture or any farming strategies. It is said here that consensus is needed for this, and I hope that this government will come to that strategy, based on general and comprehensive consensus, and come.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9499	There's no need for any fighting tone. I agree, God looks at all of us, this government looks at God, a little bit of socialists, so the government survives. Why did you react like that? The fact that this year is born, we know it. The fact that she was weak in 2003, we also know that. But in this year, when we were almost at the edge of the record, wheat 4-4.5 tons, other cultures, corn over five tons, soy 2-2.5, sunflower 2 tons, sugar tail 40 tons. So she was super-born and there's no dilemma. That's what we say. We have good agricultural production. I'll tell you what, the year she was born, she didn't bring any more money to the state, to the combination, to the agricultural producers. That's what scares me. In a situation where everything happened to us, when we had a full year of birth, when everything happened, we didn't record success. I'm asking -- what happens next year when it doesn't work like that. I don't know why she's a minister, why you're so confident. It's like you don't remember the scene from the highway, when you're talking to raspberries producers, or maybe he's talking to some of the others who were at the Ministry of Agriculture, when it comes to agricultural combinations. Your reaction went from anger to utter despair. That's what your colleagues here don't know. I don't know what makes them so happy in Serbia that they run today. I didn't expect this answer to my question. If you think it's okay that the answer to my question should contain your analysis of what the previous government did, then we won't get anywhere. If you do not have an answer to what you intend to do in the future, how to improve the situation in agriculture, improve subsidies, ensure that the inputs in agricultural production are lower, that our products are competitive on the ino-market, to see if there is an opportunity to export our agricultural products, whether you will come into a situation to export milk to the European Union market. These are questions that are extremely specific, and you answer me by not doing anything. As for the Government from 2000 to 2003, I disagree with you and you know well that much has been done about agriculture. You are well aware of the example of the Belgrade Agricultural Corporation, that more than 13m euros were invested at the time in rebuilding the machinery, and you are well aware that the results achieved in these three years have been record results for the combination, which has existed for more than 40 years. At the very least, it's not fair what you said. Because you think this is the best ministry since there are agriculture ministries in Serbia, that's your position. I honestly think that this government and this ministry are generally the worst that has appeared in Serbia since the time of Slobodan Milosevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9500	Do any of the other authorised representatives or heads of Parliament clubs report to the agenda? No, I don't. ) We move in the order of applications. The first for the word was announced by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, and let the MP Radisa Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9501	I am pleased that we have touched the topic of agriculture today, because it is extremely important. I have to say, we're not in a situation where in 2004, we're talking about what's less important and what's more important to us. In front of us today, there is a law relating to forestry. I think it's an extremely important area, and since it's already ahead of us, we need to pay attention to it. No matter what we want to talk about now, this is ahead of us, this is the agenda point and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. State in the area of production of quality forest seed and fruit material in the area of raising quality forests, preservation of forest tree genetic funds, and, of course, much wider, in the area of environmental protection, in our country is not particularly high. I think it's very important that a country that holds onto itself and that a country that wants to call itself a serious country covers these areas with good laws, which in practice can be applied. Legal basis for the adoption of laws in the field of conservation and protection of the environment and conservation and protection of the plant and animal world is set out in the Constitution of Serbia, in Article 72(5). So far, this area has not been uncovered. It was covered by the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material, which was brought in 1993 and something amended in 1994, and this law treated the production, production and use and transport of seed and fruit material, agricultural and forest plants. Two extremely important topics were treated in exactly the same way, the area of agriculture and the area of forestry, which is not entirely different, there are similarities, but in practice there are very many differences and it is very important to separate. What's important is that both in one area and in another, you have to respect the knowledge of bioengineering and modern genetics, and you have to know how much it's done in this field in the world and that it's being applied. The difference is that some of our most valuable forest species of trees do not bring and do not produce fertility every year. Let's say, when it comes to oak, its birth is occurring at intervals of five to seven years. In agriculture, too, there is a difference in the fact that plantation is something that has been brought to life in these areas. In the area of forestry, it has not yet come to life, it has yet to be revived, given the fact that it takes a number of years to produce a quality variety of seeds. What else do we need this law for? Because it is important to bring the laws and regulations in our country into line with EU laws and regulations, it is important to say and to stress that this law has been passed under the directives of the Council of the European Community that regulate and uniformly regulate transport and the market for reproductive material within the EU. The provisions of this law refer to the reproductive material of forest trees that is widespread in us, but what is also important, there are those forest species in this list that are not particularly widespread in us, but are spread in another space. On the other hand, this list contains some other species that are not on the EU list, but the EU allows Member States to extend this list to those indigenous species located on the premises of those countries. Since our country has extraordinary natural potential for the production of reproductive material that is interesting for the European market, the adoption of this law should also enable our producers – let us be fully open and say that our country, since the largest number of forest structures are owned by it, and the largest producer – is that they have full access to the European market and that they gain income in this way. One more thing I have to say is that it is a fact that between 2,000 and 3,000 acres per year in Serbia, and that some of our aim is to make 20,000 acres of noise. There are many reasons why this goal is difficult to achieve. One of them is the lack of adequate and quality seed material. As a result, the government proposed measures to raise the level of production of fruit material, which should be based on quality and genetically produced seed, with this proposal. At present, there is only one seed center in our country and, of course, the equipment in it has been completely exhausting and is almost unusable. The proposal for this law allows the manufacturer of reproductive material to be a privateer, so what was in the past law, but it is a newspaper which, if he is not a professional person, so he is not a graduate forestry engineer with a professional examination, he must receive an expert who will professionally conduct this work. This law provides for how the production of reproductive material should be done, how to control and manufacture, the processes for the processing of reproductive material, the quality of processing, the transport and use of reproductive material, as well as the supervision and criminal provisions for non-compliance with it. The transitional and final provisions give a period of one year to undertakings and other legal entities involved in this business to bring their business into line with this law. As this is not only in my opinion, but also in the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia, one of the very important and strategic laws, because allowing the preservation of our environment is strategically important and is the goal of every serious government, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support this law, and it will also support it because this is an example of how to preserve the country's national treasure, the country's natural treasure, for the future and for the science of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9502	The word is from the MP Radisa Ilic, and for the word to be prepared, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on reproductive material of forest trees. What was wanted by this law? This law for the first time regulates the production of reproductive wood material, since this area has so far been treated by the Seed and Fruit Material Act, which mainly standardises agricultural seed material and to a lesser extent forest seed material. There is a particular problem in Serbia today with unsaved areas. It's a matter of nudity, firefields and clean urine that's literally degraded the entire area. There are nearly 2.5 million hectares under the forest in Serbia, some 1,150,000 hectares owned by the state, i.e. directly owned by the Public Enterprise "Serbiasum". What it takes for forestry to advance and for Serbia with the quality of its wood industry to stand side by side with many other countries is quality production of fruit and seed material. It's a starting base that depends on what our forests look like in 50, 60 or 100 years. In Article 3, many species have been taken over from the European Union Directive and are engaged in this area. In this list we see 20 types of trees that can be considered, which are detached species, which can collect reproductive forest material. Most of these species are used only as decorative or decorative trees and matches. In addition to species dominant in Serbian forestry, the ministry must ensure that endemic species are protected from these areas, and I particularly stress the example of Pancic's fatigue. There are today artificially planted and nurtured with the stem trees of Pancic's Uranium, from which seed is collected. Pancic's omorika, a significant natural mark of Serbia and Serbian forestry, cannot be allowed to spread to the world by Germans or Czechs. Is this species protected? Instead of legally protecting her, Pancic's fatigue today is ahead of its disappearance in Serbia's forests, in the forests of Tara and Kopalnik. Article 8 refers to imports of reproductive forest material and now we return to the beginning of the story. In Serbia, directly under the jurisdiction of the Serbian Public Enterprise, about 1,150,000 hectares is a forest and the question arises whether we are able to produce enough seed material or to deal with imports, while our capacities fail and rot in Serbia's forests. It is smarter than importing to invest in the development and raising of new plantations and plantations, which will certainly increase the number of fruit material. Seed material can be imported, but for park species, although many can be produced in Serbia. It is inconceivable not to produce sufficient amounts of oak, beech, dish, acacia, pine and all kinds that have been detached from us. All it takes is a coordinated campaign to collect this seed material, not to do campaign work when it requires a situation and usually happens that we don't have any seeds. In Serbia, there are three large devastations under the jurisdiction of the owners, which are devastationers in Belgrade, Krusevec and Požega, and several smaller ones under the patronage of individual forest lords in Serbia. In some ways, they form a backbone that depends on the future of Serbian forests. This law applies only to the members of the 16th century to the devastations of decorative trees and loins, and in Serbia it seems the most. This is also found in the light of this law on page 5, that production in these plantations is ten times higher, meaning production of reproductive material of decorative trees and matches is ten times larger than production of the reproductive material of forest trees. Does this mean that more forest trees in the courtyards and parks are planted in Serbia than the forest is bare? Article 27 describes the process of collecting seed material. One of the essential factors that is not mentioned in the collection of seed material is land bonity. I think a good bonus is a condition for good seed, or species. I don't think it's a matter of which bonity the seed material is collected from and on which the seed material will be planted. Article 40 provides for the duration of the reproductive forest material. If the clearance of a seed species is 5, 7 or 10 years, the time limit should be extended to the upper limit of hatching of the species. Since plant production is expensive, it is necessary to start with the right seed material in order to achieve an optimal number of healthy and young seedlings intended for shaming. Speaking of deadlines, Article 33 provides for a time-limit for keeping the documentation of reproductive forest material for five years. I think it is necessary to keep documentation on this material permanently, and for reasons of monitoring the newest noises that have occurred. Since the process is taking a long time, certain conclusions can be made by monitoring all new developments, starting from planting to full maturity. Some phenomena can be quite explained as a result of the use of certain seed material, and this can be achieved by an analysis of the preserved documentation on seed material. As a final remark, I would like to cite the issue of standardisation and say that a small door is being introduced to genetically modified seed material in the area of forestry. Article 29 deals with the standard, and the standard still bears the name of today's non-existent state. Here we cough in time, as well as in other branches of economic and social life. The Yugoslav standard for poplars and willows was introduced back in 1964 and 1967, meaning almost 40 years ago, and since then, we have seen the clones of poplars and willows, which is unknown according to the current standard. A new Serbian standard, in line with international regulations, norms and markings, needs to be adopted as soon as possible. When I say tags, I'm going to give you a specific example when it comes to leaf-technical wood, and it consists of the following: the marks for the highest quality, the character of troupes, and we have the F class, L, K, first, second and third cutting classes. In the countries of the European Union, it looks like this. The highest quality logs are A class, B, C and D. Imagine all the problems that people who are employed in forest land want to close some business with foreign partners. That last standard has been valid since 1979. For example, for the collage tree since 1955, the ship's construction for cathartics and masts from 1969, etc. Members of the 12th and 34th mention genetically modified seed material, but in forestry, to avoid delusions, it does not represent the same thing as the clone of poplars and willows. Genetic engineering is hard to imagine in forestry, and it's completely unnecessary. There are two options here: to import genetically modified seed material or to do genetic engineering, or experiment. The selection of trees, donors or ingredients of seed material donors is done by workers of the forest profession. It is easy to eliminate from the periodic or sanitary phases what does not meet the criteria of the healthy substance. Trees that are deformed, demoted, sick, attacked by vermin or mushrooms are removed. Over time, you get healthy ingredients, ready to produce quality seed material. At the same time, growth is improving at the same time. In one case, the senselessness of genetic engineering in forestry can be seen. The fertilization time, say, is 120 years old. I'd love to see that genetic team of geneticists follow up on their genetic experiment. First of all, we don't have the terms, we don't have the resources, and most importantly, we have no reason to. The minister is otherwise known as a fan of genetically modified seed material, although in agriculture, and we come slowly to Serbian forests. We need to rely on the investment of funds to raise large dividers in every region in Serbia, especially where there are large unshumbled areas. Serbia should abandon expensive experiments in the area of genetic engineering. Optimal growth is achieved by proper land management and forest cultivation. The selection of best trees provides ingredients that will provide quality seed material and quality wood varieties. Forest wealth is one of the few remaining natural resources that can make Serbia healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9504	I thank you for doing Ilic. The break, so the first speaker is MP Mika Vlaovic, as an envoy for the original Serbian peasants.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. Please confirm the quorum. Thank you. Before I give my word to MP Miki Vlaovic, who is on the agenda, just to find out, the Serbian government has withdrawn the proposal for a government law as part of the agenda of this session. Thank you. I find that this item has been withdrawn from the agenda. The word has the People's MP Mika Vlaovic, and let the MP Vitomir Plužarević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9506	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on reproductive material of forest trees is a good sign that many laws on agriculture that may be more important than this, but some things are in order. Production of quality forest seeds and fruit material is very important for raising quality forests, preserving the forest fruit fund and protecting the environment. The legacy I would not speak of has led to the ruthlessly cut of the forest, and a little of the new ones have been planted. The year dates from 2,000 to 3,000 hectares, and it should be planted ten times more. In accordance with Article 8. The bill, seeds and seedlings will not be imported if there are enough seeds and fruit material in Serbia. This member will be deleted by entering Serbia into the European Union. This is a member to greet. As a farmer, I urge the Government to, when it adopts the following laws on agriculture, to protect all agricultural products in the country from imports and to help this agriculture which is now in the situation it is in and to prepare itself for the match when it enters the European Union so that it can deal with the agriculture of Europe. Serbia has the potential to produce fruit trees. There's even an extra one. Since forests are state-owned, significant financial resources could be derived from the export of seeds and seedlings of forest trees. It is new in this law that there are four categories of seeds and seedlings: first, second, third and fourth, and the fourth is so limited that only in the absence of three quality groups of fruit material can be planted, and the fourth only provided that there are not enough seeds and seedlings of the first, second and third, with the approval of the Ministry of Agriculture. According to the legal proposal, quality seedlings must be used to raise new forest plantations. Seeds and seedlings produced by quality, by international standards, can be exported and brought to the country significant foreign exchange funds. This bill does not apply to decorative trees and bushes, it will be regulated by some other law. I can tell you that this is a good law, there are all these two amendments that have been accepted, and the ruling and opposition furniture has accepted it as good. I'd say the DSS will vote for this bill, and I'm calling on the other MPs to vote for this. There were also words about some things that aren't on the agenda, and since I'm a farmer, I can't help but say, defend agriculture by those who have been destroying it for several years. How the Democrats show it to be a foster home for peasants when there are no farmers among their MPs. Speaking of a natural disaster, you'll allow it, I have to notice, let someone condemn me if it's not true, the elemental disaster is also an accident for the country, and for agriculture in particular, destroys a good part of the crops, the work and hopes of farmers, sweats, effort, investments, but it still has one good feature, never touches the whole country and doesn't happen every year. The Democratic Party, ruling in Serbia for three years, was worse than an elementary disaster. They killed themselves by proving that a premium should also be introduced for sugar tail, and I wonder, knowing certain things well in Vojvodina, the former Democratic Party's director bought three sugars for nine euros, so they haven't paid him enough debt, because we still have to rob taxpayers and we're giving a sugar beet premium for someone to have free raw materials. There's something else I have to say. Well, I don't care who thinks I'm wrong. They had Kolesar and Janjusevic, they can justify that it was something that flew into them, they were not top members, nor at the top of the Democratic Party, but there is something else that is very dangerous, those in Vojvodina are helping the Social Democrats League set up, which in Vojvodina has a very bad foothold, several councilors and several MPs. Their president, when he became president of the Vojvodina Assembly, said, and this is "Blic", it is likely true: "I have nothing of property, I sold all the property in 93, in inflation, to survive. "And, after three years of government, a gentleman moved into a villa on the fenced newly-sad grandfather. I don't know who politicians are fenced from or who they're afraid of. Who's supposed to keep them safe? He's got two hot tubs or a hot tub. I'm a peasant and I don't get it. I bathe in ordinary, and that's size, because there's still a good share of farmers in Serbia bathe in the trough. The province's agriculture minister buys three salads in Serbia, and asks the province's government for an apartment. I guess he won't buy an apartment. That's for nothing from the government. And it attacks Serbia's government to give little to agriculture and give little to Vojvodina. Djordje Djukic, president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, built a severalm-euro farm and slaughterhouse within three years. I'm not a cop or an investigative judge, to investigate how it is, but I'm smart enough to know that the salary couldn't. And I'd forgive all of that, in the end, but let's say that when the rest of Serbia's citizens have the same thing they've acquired in three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9507	The word is by MP Vitomir Plužarević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only the Constitution but also the need for the branch required that this law be presented to the public even earlier and pass the assembly procedure. This law is not for ideal commendation, but it's not for a big moaning either. It will give new guidelines in forestry and expertise -- how to organise and prepare fruit material for future shading and increase the noise of certain regions of our country. I've been working at the National Park "Fruška Gora" for over 30 years now and I've been familiar with the problem of producing and transporting fruit material. I am familiar with the establishment of a nursery, through the formation of a nursery, to the establishment of seed ingredients, so that this problem must be resolved by law and it has been resolved in a certain way, so that this law is now radically commenting, in the sense that this production must be established in accordance with European norms. This area has so far been resolved by regulations on forest plants, so that these regulations should be regulated by this and similar law, similarities and differences in the production of agricultural and forest plants, and these answers are already comments on the European Union which have given us the task, they offer and impose such and similar solutions, although when I look at the professional and health aspects of our forest, I am not exactly a supporter of all their solutions. Sometimes we ourselves need to ask ourselves a question and give an answer, that's our specificity. The seeds of the forest plant are now in state possession, and they cannot be organised without a time distance, when the species starts to bear fruit or when it is ripe for the collection of seeds from that substance (the frequency of breeding in oak is 5-7 years), and this is measured by the time and time of 50 to 100 years, so that this part of the law belongs to some future commentary and the question is how these ownership relations will be regulated, and we know that the best results and the greatest control of these ingredients can have companies in Europe and private companies dealing with this activity. We know that our country has good potential to produce reproductive material that would be interesting for the European and world market. One of the members of this legislation regulates the basics for the production of the reproductive material of forest trees. And there could be some comment, what it is for Europe forest trees and what it is for us. These forest trees are not forest trees because there are plants that are in a horticultural sense for one of the economic or forest significance, and for one they are of horticultural or urban importance. The basic provisions of this law are presented in eight members. The Minister establishes regions, implementations, means the establishment of starting material, i.e. parent material, plantation, etc. The ministry is running a register of the region's implementation of the starting material for production, which can deal with the production of reproductive material is regulated in five items, where it states which conditions are essential that it can be registered. The book of reproductive material must be guided, the book regulates the entire control system, sort of variety, quantity, age, date of work. Control of reproductive material is carried out by the Ministry, professional control by the Ministry can entrust the company or the legal person. The Ministry issues assurance of the origin of reproductive material. The addition of reproductive material, seeds – drying, poisoning, cleaning, calibration, packaging, disinfection and disinfection – can be carried out by an enterprise, another legal person or entrepreneur, who has to meet certain conditions, equipment, and that these businesses are managed by a forest engineer with two years of experience and a professional exam. There are various comments and opinions, whether for two years, it means more experience. The quality of reproductive material; there will certainly be a lot of problems with the norm. Those standards should be prescribed by the minister. The examination and identification of reproductive material from imports shall be carried out by an undertaking or a legal person authorised to issue certificates of the international organisation for testing the quality of the material. This certificate is not clear in this law, who will give it, what profiles of expertise are needed. Transport and use of reproductive material; this law provides for 7 members, where the reproductive material of forest trees of known origin, selected, qualified or tested can be placed on the market under Article 34. It can only be placed on the market with reproductive material that originates from genetically modified organisms if tested. This member, with the permission of these genetically modified organisms, is very problematic, because we know that we have no experience with such genetically modified plants, which probably in some radical production could pollute our clean area, and this clean area is already known in Europe and the world, and thus we would endanger ourselves, allowing all traffickers or people who are engaged in trade to be able to bring to our premises anyone who knows what goods and their origins. As for packaging and the transport of fruit material, I don't think there will be any problem, in that we as a profession are not able to follow all the world's trends, so there won't be anyone to blame, and we know that the controllers will also direct that entire transport system, with the plant species that are sent to any part of the world, are packaging and these are complete accompanying documents accompanying those shipments. The inspection shall be carried out over reproductive fruit material, and shall be carried out by the Ministry through a forest inspector over the production, processing, transport and use of reproductive material. In carrying out inspection tasks, the inspector shall be authorised and obliged to exercise control at six and nine points respectively, and, if this is all in accordance with the law, that supervision shall be regulated. Article 45 of this law states that an appeal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is allowed against the decision of the inspector. This article is not logical, if there is a mistake of the inspector for subjective reasons, and the time distance is longer than a few days, all that transport or quantity of goods can fail and fail. Who's responsible for that then? The law doesn't show that. If this law comes to life, we in forestry will only be able to comment on the quality of our forests in the next 50 years, or 100 years, as are the basics today (Posaviski, Podunavski and others). Or, what to do with Pancic's Zamaric from the Tara Bay, which is now on the air, and the question is, are we going to be able to save the stem trees from which we're going to take the haircuts? I was in 1968 in the Czech Republic and they still have cultures of Pancic's Uranium that genetically originate with Tara. These cultures were raised in 1903 and they today represent the finest cultures of this species. Our cartilages are in severe and unremonted condition and products by system from the 18th century. Probably this law will regulate that area too, so we won't have to fight genetically modified plants, in which the waist has no confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9509	The People's Messenger Vladislav Kronic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9510	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am truly pleased to speak in front of this high house about a law that regulates the area of agriculture. I think it is unnecessary to say the importance of agriculture for this one such agrarian country, where 44 percent of the population is engaged in agriculture, where 33% of the population of this country owns agricultural land and agriculture is, in any case, our trustee, and was the mother of salvation in all these difficult years. Of course, we can open a debate about whether the law on forest reproductive material is the most important agricultural law, but let it serve the other governments that have not regulated the areas of agriculture. Of course, I personally expect that other laws, very important laws, the law on forests, waters, the veterinary law, the law on the protection of plants, will soon be found in front of this high house and we will discuss them. And forests are a very important issue in Serbia, because if we take and respect the fact that 2.5 million hectares in this country take over forests, that's one third of the area in Serbia under the woods, we have to respect the fact that it's very important. Forests themselves represent a great wealth, first of all because of the fact that the wood industry, the furniture industry, in these forests live both animal and plant species, are grown by game, and you will have to admit, dear ladies and gentlemen the MPs, it is pleasant for all of us to stay in the woods. Forests have one really huge ecological significance. The need for legal regulation of forests has been observed in this country long ago. As far as Dusan's code is concerned, we have members referring to regulation of the issue of relations with the forests. Also, Milos Obrenović regulated the question of relations to forests with laws, and if we do, and hopefully we have a consensus here, our forests are in very poor shape. Always after the wars and crises have just helped to get out of the woods. Since we are now, too, in a time after the wars and crises, it is certain that we have to do a lot to fix exactly the situation in the woods. If we respect the fact that this high house has brought the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said that the central part should raise the noise from 27% to 37%, and in Vojvodina from 6 per cent to 11 per cent, it is certain that it should be done with a certain quality material. To mention just the fact that today many nursing households do not process their land, leave their land, and that on these lands, the 6th and 8th classes would be very good, with the help of the state, to increase shaming. Of course, the G17 plus will support this law anyway, precisely because it regulates this starting material, which we need to refresh and enrich our forests. This is a good law. It was not done quickly, it was done gradually, with the consultation of the profession, and our experts, and of course experts from neighbouring countries. He, since he fits into European legislation (there is only one member who is not included, I will talk about him a little later), makes it possible to do more. First of all, to train us and to enable one law, which is incorporated into European legislation, our producers to find the way of the European market. It is also very important in this law, as mentioned in Article 3 of the 52 types of forest trees to which it applies. Of course, this law does not apply to decorative plants but to forest trees. You will say that there are 52 species, and there are plant species that are not grown in our conditions, but that is precisely because it would be European compatible, so that seedlings produced from these plant species can find their way into the EU. As I said, this law in its first chapter regulates exactly what is very important, which is the recognition of the starting material for the production of forest herbs. In its second chapter, it regulates the production of reproductive material, and I would point to one moment; unlike the previous law, which allowed for the various marifetteluks that were happening there, this time it was correctly regulated that production could only deal with a legal person, and it must also have an employee graduate forest engineer, which has not been the case so far. They were basically covered in all kinds of papers, contracts, and they didn't actually have one. In the fourth chapter, it is precisely prescribed how the production of reproductive material is controlled. The fifth chapter provides for the processing of this reproductive material. The sixth chapter deals with and prescribes the quality of this reproductive material. The seventh chapter for me is also very important, because it regulates the transport of this material. What is also very important in the implementation of each law is the supervision of the production, which is regulated in chapter eight. Of course, no law is good if there are no adequate criminal provisions and these criminal provisions are regulated in this chapter. What, in my view, is also significant and why I call on ladies and gentlemen of Parliament to support this law, this law does not provide for additional financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I call on you to support this good law with your votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9511	The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for us in the SRS, it is not disputed that a law on reproductive material of forest trees should be passed, but there is no single reason for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pass this law by an urgent procedure. The government's reasoning, as a proponent, is really not convincing and it is not clear that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure can cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. These are the terms of Rule 157 of our Rules of Procedure, which is why some law should be passed by emergency procedure. You, gentlemen of the ruling majority, have a strange relationship and strange archaics when it comes to determining whether something needs to be done in this House by emergency procedure, and when we suggest that an emergency procedure be considered and determined whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution, then you think and vote that this should not be done by an emergency procedure, and you know well that if the President of the Republic violates the Constitution, then it can really cause adverse consequences both for the life and for the health of people, the safety of the country, especially for the work of the authorities and organisations. The president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, told you what questions the minister should answer to the National Assembly, so that we from the SRS parliamentary group could vote for this bill. I'll give you some more details of this law that we don't think should stand and that will open up the possibility of abuse and different treatments of the manufacturer of the forest tree reproductive material. We just want to point out that neither this law nor any other law can lead to the fact that an official who applies the law can have a different relationship with different persons, i.e. that different persons have different treatment with the state authority. In article 13, you predicted what the minister should do. This is not only in Article 13, but in several members of this law, I will only mention this one because it is the first in a row. According to the SRS, these jobs should be in the ministry's jurisdiction. The ministry is an organ, a minister is a man who heads the ministry, but cannot have the authority provided for by these and these laws. In Article 20, in your final statement, you say that the professional production control business of the Ministry can entrust the company with another legal entity listed in Article 10(2) of this Act. It's strange and interesting that these professional jobs in this area should be done by someone on the side, by a third party. It would be logical that the competent ministry is trained to have personnel able to do these jobs. This would be so certain and it would be that the Ministry does not employ party listeners, it has been particularly expressed since 2000, obviously continued until today, as long as you are legally predicting that you have to hire someone else to do the work of the Ministry. In Article 24, they have two positions and these views are contradictory among themselves. You say - the cost of production control is borne by the manufacturer and is paid to an appropriate account for the payment of the public revenues of the Republic's budget. The amount of costs shall be determined in accordance with the rules on costs in the administrative procedure. Administrative fees shall be paid in the administrative procedure. In the case of administrative fees, their height is determined by a special law and cannot be changed by this law. If there are other costs, then these are not regulated costs in the administrative procedure. There's a problem. I don't know what the promoter meant. Perhaps Mrs. Minister will explain it to us. Penalties are very interesting to you -- with a fine of 50,000 to 1,000 dinars, you will be punished for a business offense or another legal person -- and then you list in what cases. In the second position of the same member, you say - for the economic offense of the 1st article will be fined by a fine of 10,000 to 50,000 dinars and by a responsible person in an enterprise or another legal person. We Serbian radicals every time these penalties are in principle against such a large range of penalties, because whenever there are such large ranges, then whoever determines these penalties has a broad opportunity to abuse this law. What's particularly interesting here? When you predict penalties for legal persons, then the relationship between the lowest and the highest penalty is 20 times, and when it comes to a natural person, that relationship is five times. I really didn't see the logic of this proposal. The next article 48, you say -- with a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars, will be fined by an enterprise or another legal person, and then you say when and for what. It is extremely illogical that the lowest penalty for a crime is twice the minimum penalty for a commercial offence. I guess the economic offense is more of a crime than a felony. It should be expressed through criminal provisions. In article 49, you say -- with a fine of 5,000 to 500,000 dinars, an entrepreneur will be punished for a violation if he acts contrary to the provisions of Article 4(3) of this law. In the previous position, you say -- a fine of 100,000 to 1,000 dinars will be fined by an entity or another legal person if it goes contrary to the provisions of Article 4(3) of this Act. Why do you provide for one punishment for an enterprise or another legal entity and another for an entrepreneur? That, too, is what we Serbian radicals think is not logical and we think that, with these shortcomings that we have pointed out, maybe we could think about voting for this law, but yet such a concise law is not acceptable for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9513	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Gačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9514	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, raising and restoring forest fruit materials is a qualitative raising of the forest, because certainly one of the national interests, particularly from an economic aspect, ecological, biological, and, in all likelihood, from the point of view of national defence, given some intensities in the current current current government, i.e. current ministers and their statements. However, the proposer of this law in Article 11 says that the starting material for the production of reproductive material can be a recognised clone and clone mixture. I believe that materials of domestic origin can be used exclusively for the initial material, i.e. to prohibit any imports of reproductive material, because false declarations, such as the company's reproductive materials of known origin or the company's selection reproductive material, i.e. qualified reproductive material, tested, or sort reproductive material, imports of everything and everything that has been confirmed by our practice. For these reasons it is also possible to introduce genetically modified species, and their harmful impact on domestic species, especially the same family, is not only unknown, risky, but proven harmful to human health. This impact is bad for the entire ecological system, the plant and animal world, because after the establishment of a certain balance in nature, the birth of new harmful species is established, above all I mean the pests, parasites and other species, which represent in these areas the pests for livestock, for forestry and for the entire population. These species had never existed before, but they were eventually established, or emigrated. There's no need to import any starting materials for the production of reproductive materials, when we have enough land, institutes and forest funds, and we have this self-production material, enough that we can only be exporters of that, and no importers at all. I think it is only necessary to make an exemption for now special purposes, under which I mean, Article 4 of Article 2, which refers to decorative trees and special purpose cases, such as Christmas trees, New Year's Eve, some old crafts, such as black tar pine and tar production. As long as there are such species, or as long as there are interests on the market, while there is a need, it should be allowed, perhaps by calling them, old crafts, to survive. It's part of the income for the poor population, I mean some neighborhoods like mountain-mountan. This should be allowed, but above all, to bear in mind that it is done by domestic species, because one producer of seed species cannot bring in some new species modified or, say, clones. So, only under certain approvals of the ministry, if it believes it should be allowed, where certain inspection controls are, that this type of activity of the population can also be carried out to provide all living resources. Physical and legal persons may have the same right to produce these types of products and to place it on the market under certain inspection controls, so as not to carry out any abuse. From this pay phone, I would simply call upon the Ministry of Forests to, in cooperation with the ministry responsible for reforming education, to carry out actions, that is to say, as it used to be, at a time when I was young and when such a gesture was useful; and let there be such actions in our environments, our schools and our citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9515	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Dragan Petrovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dragan Petrovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The Prime Minister and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Publishing You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposer's representative, Dragan Koadinovic, the culture minister, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9516	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief opening statement. The publication law was adopted in 1991 and on three occasions adapted to the current needs of publishers and users of publications, as well as library institutions, ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 37/91, 53/93, 67/93 and 48/94). The current amendment of this law refers to the distribution of transactions when implementing the provisions set out in the text of the law and unchanged from the entry into force of the law. Each publication, whether monograph, book, video or digital record, catalogue, afiš, poster, any series, all types of periodic editions, such as newspapers, magazines, professional or information journals, must have a CIP catalog and standardisation number that corresponds to the type of publication. The catalogue record can most often be found on the last pages of books, along with the standardisation number, while in the magazine the number is mostly on the front page or in the impression. These two numbers, in fact two documents, are necessary for the publication to be done under the applicable Publications Law. Also, according to the applicable legislation in the field of transport tax ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 70/03), and in force by the end of the year, these two documents are also necessary for the publication to be exempt from the sales tax. According to the laws that are current, it is the Law on Public Services, the Law on Library Activity, but also the Law on publication of publications, the work on the publication of these two documents was divided, I mean the CIP Catalogue record and published by the National Library of Serbia, and the address is Skerlic's number 1, Belgrade, and the standardisation numbers of the Yugoslav Institute, Terrace No. 26, Belgrade. By amending the Law on publication proposed by the Ministry of Culture, i.e. the Government, both documents, or both, would be published by the National Library of Serbia. According to the Law on Library Activity, the National Library of Serbia is carrying out publications, but the standardisation number is part of it by international professional rules and is an integral part of it. This would mean that the National Library should carry out standardisation within the scope of its law, i.e. in the scope of work, which has not been the case so far. This solution in the National Library of Serbia would provide the following functions: the creation and distribution of the current national library, which would be based on the central and electronic catalogue of the system of mutual catagolysis, for which the National Library of Serbia corresponds as a vital part of the single library system; the reception and storage of a mandatory copy of the printed publication; the production of ISN, ISMN and DOI, which marks the organisational and professional unification with the CIP of the National Library of Serbia; the translation and distribution of the tables of the Universal significant classification, which also achieves organisational and professional integration with the relevant and professional catalogue of the National Library of Serbia; the unification and coordination of reference jobs; there is also work on bibliography, where there are also works of the central publications, there are the central publications. Given all of this, it is most rational for the National Library of Serbia and for the users of its services that all these jobs are done in one place, which would be achieved by the proposed solution, because the National Library of Serbia has been trained to carry out these tasks, which belong to the same context, and to do so. You have all other explanations and instructions under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9517	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since none of the MPs have applied for a word, I conclude the search in principle. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude a search in particular, does the proposing representative, Mr Dragan Kadadinovic, the culture minister, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for an ELECTRONS SIGN LAW You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Lazar Cavic, Jovan Daja, Gordana Gajic, Zoran Antić, Srboljub Marinkovic and Stevica Dedjanski. Amendments which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will be submitted to you until the start of the original search will take place during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter's representative, Dr Aleksandar Popovic, the minister of science and environmental protection, want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9518	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of the e-signature law creates normative, organisational and technological preconditions for the security of electronic documents in electronic transactions and for their legality and legitimacy in legal traffic. Electronic documents are defined by law as equivalent to paper documents. They're important and they have proof power. Electronic signatures, which are in accordance with the provisions of the law, have legal fact and would have to be accepted in court as a means of proof. Legal regulation of electronic signatures will affect the acceleration of electronic business in all areas: trade, banking, insurance, tourism, services etc. The exchange, via the Internet, of standardised electronic documents, will result in the conclusion of contracts, payments, as well as other legal actions, in an efficient way, at less cost and without direct contact from stakeholders, who can be in various parts of the world. In our country, according to the United Nations Commission for Europe, about 700,000 people occasionally use the internet, while estimated to be around 500,000 very often using the possibilities of the world's network. It is estimated that the daily internet uses around 0.3% of the population, i.e. when it is considered that only urban environments generally have access to the Internet, that percentage is around 0.8%. The total number of registered domains in our country in early 2004 was 2,3.314 domains, and the number is now estimated to be slightly below 25,000, and the store is about 500, which means that a growing number of consumers and in our country are using certain types of electronic trade. Since 1998, significant and extensive activities have been undertaken in our country to introduce and use electronic signature technology in payment. The relevant elements of electronic signature technology have already been implemented in the Law on Payments and Decisions on the electronic way of carrying out payment. Since January 2003, most banks in Serbia have been developing their own electronic payment systems and using electronic signatures in their systems. In addition to progress in the area of payment traffic, the interest of the electronic business company in other areas has been seen in practice. It is present and is increasingly developing awareness of the necessity and the great benefit of the use of electronic business between business and financial entities in Serbia. This achieves more economic business, easier communication with domestic and foreign partners and commercial advantages in the market. From what we've seen, there's a clear need for an electronic signature law to be passed in our country. A special impact is expected on the introduction of electronic administrations and the provision, in an efficient and rational manner, through two-way electronic communication, generalisation between citizens, economic operators and public administration bodies in procedures for the exercise of their rights, obligations and interests, such as registration of companies, registration of vehicles, registration of tax obligations, delivery of data on personal and status changes, documents necessary for import-export transactions, etc. By regulating the electronic signature, based on the application of appropriate international standards and recommendations, Serbia has met one of the basic conditions to communicate with other countries of the modern world, where electronic business has become a way of life. In August 1997, Germany became the first country to pass the e-signature law, followed by Belgium, Denmark, Italy and other countries, and later by countries from our environment. In the part of Serbia-Montenegro, in the Republic of Montenegro, the e-signature law was passed in October 2003. The proposed legislative solutions are mainly based on the Directive on electronic signature, the laws of members of the European Union and the countries of our environment, respecting the specificities of our legislation. Electronic signature technology, based on legal solutions, allows parties to have much more trust in electronic transactions in electronic communications. In fact, electronic signatures as technology use cryptography, based on public keys, which are ideally suitable for communication via an open public internet. Each user generates a few keys, known as a public key and a private key. Only a public key can decrypt a document with an appropriate private key. The electronic signature unambiguously confirms the identity of the sender, as well as the authenticity and integrity of the electronic documents. Unique for the sender and for the document to be sent, the electronic signature can be verified and cannot be denied. The second important advantage that the electronic signature provides is to ensure that the participants in the transaction are the ones for whom they are represented. Unlike the handwritten signature, the electronic signature not only identifies the sender of the electronic document, but also ensures that the content of the document does not change during the transmission, which is the most critical part of the electronic business. Electronic certificates also help assess the goods and services delivered via the original network. By statutory regulation of the conditions to be met by electronic signatures, the conditions to satisfy the means of making and means of verification of signatures, as well as the introduction of new functions, certification bodies, provide conditions for unambiguous identification of signatories, evidence that the signator has signed the document. The certification bodies shall, in accordance with the law, have the function of issuing and managing electronic certificates. They have the role of trustees of electronic certificates with their authority. Finally, the legal framework established for electronic signature, based on licensed bodies with licences, will certainly provide an additional reason for greater trust in electronic business now and in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9519	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (The Scientific and Technological Development Committee - Nikola Jovanovic, Committee Chairman, and Legislative Committee - Milos Aligrudic, Committee President) No. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. The mandated representatives for this agenda point are: in front of the SPS - Svetislav Krstic, in front of DSS - Dejan Stojljković and in front of the parliamentary group DS - Milan Markovic. The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9520	Dear Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, it is a very important law on electronic business and it is good that we bring it in. It's a shame we didn't do it before, but we're one of the last countries to pass one of these laws. I think it's basic law without which we can't talk more seriously about electronic business. Therefore, the SPS will support the adoption of this law. Law-making will allow for integration into international e-commerce flows. We just heard a respected minister say we have about 700,000 users in Serbia, and according to some data that I have the number of Internet users, as one of the key data that can be measured, there is about 900,000 in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're about the world average, and that's not bad, but we'd like to be a European average. I'd like to say that last year, a two thousand-billion-dollar business traffic was done via the Internet and records a steady trend of growth. Also, when it comes to getting jobs online, there is a trend of growth in our country. Informing all business flows is a great developmental opportunity for our Republic. Development involves three things: the first thing is capital, the second is personnel, and the third is information. We don't have the capital, and what we have isn't exactly the best invested. We have personnel, but we have an unsatisfactory structure and motivation of personnel. As far as information is concerned, information is the most valuable commodity. It is produced, transformed, transferred, processed, bought, sold, etc. If we take all this into account now, it is obvious that the adoption of such laws will enable and affect development in our country. I want to highlight some of the advantages of doing business on the Internet. If you have a company that operates on the Internet or uses the Internet for business, then you are in a position like you have a company all over the world. You don't have to have a firm in downtown Paris and pay a million-dollar lease or representation in Tokyo, in order for the company in the world to be famous, you don't have to have different representatives, etc. Which cost a lot. It's enough that you show up on the Internet and your company finds its place. There are a lot of people in Yugoslavia and a lot of companies who use the Internet for business. I want to point out a very interesting phenomenon that has great consequences for the overall happening in our Republic. There are growing numbers of young people working at home on the Internet for some international companies. In Novi Sad, I know at least ten young people, experts, who work for some companies whose headquarters are in Australia, America, etc. and make a very decent profit that way. This may seem encouraging, since it's obvious that soon it won't be necessary for what we call brain drains to happen to us. Young people will not have to leave and be physically present in developed countries, they will not have to wait for visas and work permits, etc., they will be able to work for companies by sitting at home and doing so now. That's what we have to take care of, and there's our big development opportunity. I want to point out that all the big companies in the world have an open competition for hiring people who know how to work computers. As for the situation in our country, when it comes to the application of computers, there are several restrictions. One of the basic constraints is communication infrastructure. I had a chance to talk to former Microsoft Director for Serbia, Mr. Franjo Redji a year and I asked him what the problem was in Serbia, whether the problem was personnel, equipment. He told me the problem was communication infrastructure. We have equipment, it can be better, it can be more modern, it can be more, we have personnel. It's one of the great restrictions on communication infrastructure. As far as restrictions are concerned, I would like to say that in our education, in our education system, IT education is insufficiently represented. I think a lot of school principals almost don't know they're working on a computer. I think in this way I would like to point out symbolically that appropriate measures need to be taken to enable our children to come into contact with the computer as early as possible because it is still for the private procurement of our citizens. When it comes to the functioning of the information systems, I would take advantage of the opportunity to rely on the National Assembly's information system, given that the National Assembly is one of the most important institutions in the country, I am taking the opportunity to point to an anomaly that can also be very dangerous to the country's security, as regards the National Assembly's information system. After information, when we became MPs, elected MPs and came to the Assembly, there is an information centre in the Assembly and MPs are invited to appear and to use it. And I went out wanting to use computers in breaks, and that maybe I could do some of my jobs here in the Assembly. I've been kindly welcomed, sat down for a computer and tried to open a user account. That's when what I expected happened, the system administrator said I had no authority and I couldn't open a user account, but I could use the computer as a guest. Knowing that it's common, when someone comes and starts using a system, I went to the staff lady at the IT center and asked the administrator to allow me to open a user account and start using the computer system that was installed here in the Assembly, and among other things, so that we MPs would use it too. After two or three days, I got the answer, she gave me the answer, the administrator answered, so should we now open 250 orders for MPs, all MPs, and I thought, where good thing all fellow Members need a user order? Then I asked, tell me what procedure it is to enable the use of the computer, and I was told that the SPS parliamentary group should contact the Secretary of Parliament, and unfortunately he is not here, with a request to open a user account. The administrator obviously didn't want to do it on my request. We have sent a short request, please allow our MP to open a user account so that he can use the computer in the National Assembly Information Centre, Dr. Zarko Obradović. We sent that request on April 19th, seven and a half months ago. The professional service, headed by the secretary, did not favour the MP's group and myself, as an MP, to respond to such a common request.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9521	Excuse me, Mr. Cross, do you want to use another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9522	Yes, of course. That's when I decided to investigate what was going on. How is it possible that someone does not allow me, as a National MP, to use the computer, or the Assembly’s information system? There were only two options: either the service, headed by the Secretary of the Assembly, was catastrophically unsupervised, that is one thing or another – someone does not want to allow MPs to use computers and have access to the computer system of the Assembly, which would be quite understandable and common. Since we socialists are curious by nature, and we know computers, I've decided to see what this is all about. I asked who the IT administrator is in the Serbian Parliament. It's a company called Mediavorks. The company began as an NGO and transformed into a private company. Of course, I have nothing against NGOs either, we have no Socialists against private enterprises, for God's sake, but it's extremely unusual for one such important job, from the point of view of the National Assembly's security, to trust some private, other firm, that it does so for the needs of the Assembly. This should be done by appropriate professional service of the Assembly or Government. Foreign companies are not used in congregations, nor are they used to clean the corridor, let alone administer the information system. I was still interested, so I studied what software administrators use. In order to manage one information system there is an appropriate software, and then I came up with very interesting conclusions, which is to use software that allows listening to all electronic flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9523	Mr. Krstic, may I ask you under article 100, I am prepared to provide you with all the answers and explanations, as well as the Assembly, that as far as software is concerned, please continue later, not this occasion. Please, you'll understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9524	Mr. President, what I'm talking about are very essential things, principled and concerning the security of the National Assembly and the security of the Republic of Serbia. Let me use my right as a representative, and I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9525	Here, for safety reasons, I wanted to give you an explanation, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9526	Please know what software is used to administer the information system. I just want to point out one anomaly and point out that our parliamentary group requires that the administration of the National Assembly's information system be entrusted to the qualified services of the Assembly or the Government, not to use private companies. By the way, the Mediavorks company is doing this administration job for both the US Embassy and the UK Embassy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9527	Thank you. Since I have warned you under article 100, I am obliged to explain, that no kind of panic would happen – a contract with a private firm has been found, I am talking about a new meeting in the Assembly, please, under a lot of strange circumstances, restored by the vice president of the previous Assembly. Since everyone in charge, by the Security Committee, through the President of the Assembly and the professional service, pointed to the failures that exist, primarily for the dissemination of the information network and for not only the NGO and the private, but also the government's organisation, has been given an analysis of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering. We're going to have results these days, and compared to that, a fully protected, closed inforamtic system. We've been dealing with this for four months. Please, we don't have to talk about everything at the pay phone. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Meanwhile, I would like to inform that the authorised representative in front of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group is MP Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one day I guess I'll learn all these secrets that other people know, and they keep, because they're not for others. And I recommend to you, President, that, like any new government, you change what you find and it's not good. Not to find something bad and complain about how you found something bad. But I'd like to talk about the law, these privileges that MPs have, so that they can go online, keep it for some law that you're going to vote on, hopefully, in a new assembly. I don't mind modernizing the state and moving forward with the rest of the states. And this is something that's been waiting for us ever since. I don't see the reasons for the emergency procedure, but you've been hasty, probably because it's a calendar year, so you can add how many laws the government has proposed, and we assume that it will be a decommissioning – we are the government that has proposed so many laws, more than each other before, by waiting for you to live in Serbia. Well, you talk about what you've adopted, and we'll talk about how you've ruined life in Serbia. Let's see who gets more convincing. I just want to ask the legislator, when it's already an emergency procedure, and that means - there would be harmful, inconceivable consequences, you know how many reasons it would take for the government to dare come to the Assembly and ask for an emergency procedure, you know. These reasons have been marred by many governments, and yours is not at all trying to remove this emergency procedure. However, under Article 3 of the electronic document, fullness or evidence power may be disputed because in the electronic form of the following tasks – legal transactions which carry out the transfer of property rights to immovable property, or which establish other real rights to immovable property, statements by parties and other participants in the process of discussing the legacy, the form of a legacy, the contract to subsistence and the distribution of property for life, the contract of life support and inheritance agreements, as well as other contracts from the entire corpus in the area of hereditary law, agreements on the settlement of property relations between spouses, the contract on the availability of property of persons who are deprived of the business capacity, gifts contracts, other legal transactions or actions, for which, by specific law or under the laws laid down, explicitly determine the use of their own signature in documents or their authentic signature. Now, since you're so intent on modernizing the state, when you've prepared the e-signature bill, why isn't the state not ready for electronic signature? Why we're passing a law that can't be applied almost in any case. So, we're left with the overa tents. There's still a tax on the overa, maybe that's the reason to see what it is. I won't accept the argument that other laws provide for a signature of their own. This law could say – since the date of entry into force of this law, it ceases to apply to me the provision of a member of that law, that and that law, a member of that and that, that and that law, is for me the ministry which delivers the bill, and that is for me the Secretariat of the Serbian Government's legislation which points to that. The easiest way to write a law is to say – it is valid if some other law does not provide for any other provision. That's how little kids write the law. One normal state, you say we're a normal state, we go to an electronic signature with 0.3 percent of users on the Internet daily, but here, it's urgent, but a normal state can't afford to write like this. Then what did we do with the electronic signature? What's most important is, what's paid the biggest fees for the overa, for the transfer, remains on handwritten, waiting in front of the counter. Now what? Older people who don't use the Internet, they'll still go to a counter of municipalities or to court to verify their signature, and children for some of their transactions for orders of goods from large markets, will probably be there to claim that he ordered the electronic goods. We may be able to pay for electricity, phone, we'll see what's important in this country, what the municipalities and tents of municipalities and courts are working on, it remains on primitive signature, on the authority of your own signature. Where was the reason for the rush and for the emergency procedure? Wasn't it possible for the government to order someone, with the fact that they're getting involved in this and the people who won't need a special permit to do so, they'll be known to be authorized to issue a certificate, but couldn't the government have ordered one of their experts to search all the laws and to amend them with this law and those laws to which it could be applied immediately? A team before the Government stated in an explanation why this law does not apply to all signatures. Let me ask you, is the modern-day Europe that you're trying to find out if there's an overture of signatures next to an electronic signature? In addition to the electronic signature, which applies to contracts worth millions of euros, does it have an oversign for a transaction that needs to be carried out between citizens? If that's the case, then we're wise. Then we're not ready for what we're doing. If we're ready, let's do it. If we've regulated everything else in Serbia, let's also regulate that electronic signature. With only a few colleagues here, I don't know if it's clear to anyone what's going on and what's that electronic signature and how from tomorrow, when the law comes into force, it's going to be a more favourable regime – for what. Maybe to issue a license to carry a weapon. Perhaps the request for a license to carry a weapon will be sent by electronic means to the SUP of Bela Palanka. I don't think so. Now I'm interested in this urgency in the process, created by removing the inconceivable consequences that can arise if we don't adopt the law, where it is. What's the harm if the law isn't passed by emergency procedure? If there is time for the bill to be made known to those who understand this. It's the easiest thing to write a law like this where half the words of a child who graduates from college never speak. For less educated citizens of Serbia not to talk. Foreign words that have become normal terminology, but they need those who do so. Many of us do not do this and write a law for a vast majority who does not. I don't think we're in a position to start writing laws for the elite. Keep it out of the way, this is the law for the elite. By the very member of which there are exceptional restrictions to law enforcement, you prove to us that the law does not apply to all citizens and all transactions. Then the question arises whether we've seen it well enough. We will not prevent you from passing an electronic signature law, but we will remind you that laws in which other types of signatures are exclusively valid will not be able to remain in force for long. You did not provide for a transitional period in which the other laws would be adapted to this law. You are even insulting the People's Assembly and insulting the law, and you say, "The law is not applied in cases where some regulation provides otherwise." You say, by the regulation passed under the law. Every regulation has been passed under the law. You cannot say in one law – it does not apply if there is a regulation that is otherwise regulated. You're all right. All I know is that I'm adding and subtracting, and I know why I went out for the pay phone. You could have passed the law without any discussion, and the public wouldn't have been too interested in this, because this isn't a law that goes into some kind of torture. This is a law that really regulates the relationship in the country. But I'd like to ask Mr. President, from now on, I'm going to pay for the alcohol tests at the entrance to the O.R., and I'm paying for those who are proven to have been drinking for those who aren't. I accept a throw and I have a custom myself, but when someone burns for five minutes straight, it's not a throw, it's a force that makes him stronger than he does. It doesn't come from the stomach, but it spread from the stomach to other parts of the body. To finish, I accept by electronic signature to verify my obligation to pay for the alcohol tests if proven wrong. We won't bother you, I'm just warning you that it would be good if we were doing something that no more congregation reunions had to do, that it didn't turn out to be just to be attributed to another job.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9529	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? Here you go. Just an answer to the Rules of Procedure. It's changing, the contract hasn't been signed, because it's been checked for the last four months. So it doesn't occur to me to keep the same situation, but also to accuse someone until we check all the details. This is the answer to what we asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Mr. President, the DSS is going to vote for this bill anyway. I sincerely hope that this will be one of the laws that will receive support from all other parties in this assembly, and there are several reasons why this law should be passed. The first is, of course, the fact that there is a delay in Serbia with regard to the application of information technologies in relation to most of the countries in Europe, and probably we all agree that Serbia has potentials that can be classified among the leading countries, if not in Europe, then surely in this part of Europe. I will remind you that once Serbia was among the world's leading countries when it comes to this area and I will present in short a few of the facts that confirm it. In 1955, a computerised processing of statistics began in the then federal, republican and city statistical services. In 1957, using a system of drilling cards, which was otherwise a way of keeping data permanently, the first register of Belgrade's population was established. In 1961, the Institute "Michajlo Pupin" produced the first home computer with digital components, and later the production of computers includes the Institute "Vinca", the Electronic Industry from Nis, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering from Belgrade, etc. The Information Society in Serbia was founded in 1973. These years, computers have been used to register the population, as well as to register military taxpayers, voters' lists, etc., and are used in federal, republican and local institutions, particularly in Belgrade. We are free to say that these years our country was among the first ten countries in the world when it comes to the production of computers and their application. Unfortunately, the economic crisis that followed later has slowed this development, and Serbia today certainly does not follow most of the countries in Europe in this area, and this law will certainly run and further stimulate the application of computers. Another reason is to bring our legislation in line with EU legislation, but also with the legislation of countries in our environment. We would thus facilitate not only the admission of our country into the EU, but also the business of our companies with other companies abroad. As early as June 2000, EU member states adopted an Action Plan for the Implementation of the Information Society in Europe, which was then popularly referred to as "Europe". The countries of Central and Eastern Europe adopted a similar plan called "Europe Plus" that same year, and the objectives of these action plans were, among other things, the acceleration of reforms, the increase of competitiveness and, above all, the acceleration of the information process. After that, Southeast European countries, including our country, signed a similar plan. We have committed ourselves to working rapidly on further technological and informative improvement of society. One of the first steps is to pass the e-signature law. Unfortunately, I must say, our country is the only country in Europe that doesn't have this law. Otherwise, when it comes to the very procedure of passing this law, I have to say that in 2000, at the initiative of the then Federal Bureau of Statistics, an initiative was launched to pass this law, and in 2001, the federal government did the first draft e-commerce law. The draft in the Federal Assembly was not discussed until its disbandment. In early 2003, the Serbian Government's Ministry of Science and Technology made the first draft of this law, and it was brought in a few days after public debate and certain changes in the assembly procedure. The third and most important reason for the adoption of this law is related to the creation of conditions for the more efficient operation of businesses and institutions, as much of the jobs will go into the sphere of so-called. e-business, which brings significant financial savings in addition to savings in time. EU member states have concluded in the adoption of the "Europe" plan that the economy will be much more competitive and efficient if it builds on knowledge and the internet in further work. Fortunately, besides a large number of young experts who have left the country in recent years, there are still significant potentials that are seen in more than 50,000 people who are more or less capable of self-sustaining and writing their own programs and maintaining computer equipment. Over 5,000 experts are professionally involved in programming, web design and human education. There are close to a million computer users in Serbia. We've heard there are over 700,000 Internet users and about 800,000 computers. Nearly 1,000 companies are engaged in the sale and manufacture of computers. There are developed databases and applications in many areas, and over 20,000 companies and institutions have developed their website. As for the internet infrastructure itself, there was something to say earlier about it, it sounds encouraging to me, that the capacity of links to the world from 255 increased to 755 megabits per second, and that is certainly something that meets the current needs of our economy. There is also an increase in the number of Internet providers and a decline in the prices of their services. From all of this, we can see that the conditions for an informative rebirth and how it is, and this law will certainly initiate it. Ensuring better conditions and investment in information in practice will bring us almost absolute literacy, especially young people, the development of electronic administrations, banking, electronic trade and better services in the field of health, education, etc. In all developed countries in the world, laws follow social and economic developments. Unfortunately, in the previous period, this was not the case, and evidence of this lies in the fact that we already have numerous examples of electronic business in Serbia today, although the law has not been passed. The National Bank regulated its payment turnover by its decision on the electronic way of carrying out payment. Many banks in Serbia are already applying so-called electronic banking, which means that you can, in practice, get access to your account via the Internet from work, execute a transfer order, etc. The better and cheaper this way, it says that in larger banks in the world, classical transactions are more expensive on average 25 times the average of electronics. We heard there are already 500 so-called "Serbs" in Serbia. Web shops, where users of such a system from home, via the Internet, can buy various goods, such as home appliances, books, food products etc. The development of electronic administrations to a greater or lesser extent is decent in many municipalities and cities. Belgrade, Nis, Panchevo, Subotica stand out, and this electronic administration should make it easier for citizens to obtain different documents, such as beliefs, derived from their books, etc. In addition, there are companies, although few, which develop so-called companies. "business that business" business, and the basic condition for the development of such a business is just the adoption of a law on electronic procedure. From all of this, it is easy to see why it is important to pass this law, and we, as MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must assume the obligation to continue working on the creation of legislation in this area. In its seven chapters, the law is clear and quality. This is confirmed by a small number of amendments submitted to this law. In the first chapter, in addition to the definition and specific professional terms, there is also an explanation of the fullness of the electronic document, the conditions under which electronic documents can be kept, while retaining the evidence of force. The second chapter defines the types of electronic signatures. What this law allows is the use of electronic and qualified electronic signatures, and in accordance with this law, all institutions and all companies that have already introduced the electronic business will be able to declare something they already use for electronic signature. It should be said that only a qualified electronic signature will be official and will have the power of proof as its own signature. The third chapter contains the definition of an electronic and qualified electronic certificate, and these certificates will be issued by a special certification body. It's also defined who can be a certification body and under what conditions. It is foreseen that the issue of qualified electronic certificates may also be addressed by certain national authorities. All certification bodies will be registered in the register, and the registry will be run by the competent ministry. Chapters 4 and 5 define the rights, obligations and responsibilities, both the user and the certification bodies, and provide adequate supervision of the application of this law. What needs to be pointed out here in particular is the possibility of using foreign electronic certificates, including qualified electronic certificates, but when the body that issued this certificate is registered with us or when the certificates originate from the country with which the agreement on mutual recognition of certificates is concluded. The competent ministry shall carry out inspection of the application of this law and shall point out here that authorised persons who exercise supervision are obliged to keep all the information as official secret, both about certificates and all personal data on users. Chapter 6 sets out criminal provisions for infringements that may be committed by users and body certifications. Finally, Chapter 7 sets out the final provisions and will oblige the competent ministry to adopt appropriate sublaws, no later than three months. As someone who's been dealing with computers for almost 20 years, I can say that it's a quality and a necessary law, and on behalf of the DSS, I want to invite all the other MPs to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9531	Thank you, Mr. Dejan Stojljkovic. Is there another representative of the parliamentary group or does the president want a word? No, I don't. ) The applications, pursuant to Article 89(4), were submitted by three parliamentary groups: G17 plus, SRS and DSS. The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9532	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, today the law is long awaited by the professional public in this area. There was almost one gathering at the Sava Center and the contribution was in the magazine "Economist", which you could read, it was the last number of Monday, which expressed great sadness that his adoption was delayed at the last session. It has been said and it is known that the security of a country depends on the information structure of that state. It's too much of a sentence, but it's true. This law is a small grain in the realisation of our country's information technologies. [[President: Excuse me, Mrs. Silaev, put down some microphones, the MPs can't hear you.]] This law, as stated by previous speakers, regulates the right of natural and legal persons to use electronic signatures in administrative, judicial and other proceedings, business and other actions, as well as the rights and obligations of relevant natural and legal persons in relation to electronic certificates, if the specific law does not make this different. The electronic signature within the meaning of this Act is a set of data which in electronic form serves to identify the signatories and confirm the authenticity of the signed electronic record. There were just questions here why certain documents were excluded from the electronic signature. You know, technology goes one step at a time. For now, Serbia is under these conditions and this is a step enough for us to pass this law. However, all documents which are recorded and where judicial marking is required in court books with the seal, which are mainly property-legal relations, are exempt from this law. Probably at a later stage, as technology progresses, our country will accept that these problems are solved as well. As you know, the exception from this law will be resolved, and of the importance of a document like this, we'll look at what happens in the countries around us. We've heard from previous speakers where we are in relation to the world, and let's now hear the information where we are in relation to our former republics. Slovenia is the country that quickly realised the importance of electronic work, i.e. the impact of information technology on the work of state authorities, on the work of companies and has made the greatest progress there, even achieved that it is more advanced than other countries in Europe. In Croatia, Erikson, together with Croatian state authorities, is developing a project of the electronic administration of the national strategy for the development of the information society and the project was initiated four years ago and adopted in early 2002. After the 2003 elections, a special body was established with the Government for the Development of Electronic Administration, with the aim of carrying out tasks in this field of electronic education, health care, for which members of the European Union have until 2005. It is necessary to make significant progress in the construction of the communication infrastructure network and also on the regulatory plan. Two years ago, the Law on Electronic Signature was adopted in Croatia and a competent agency for this area was established and a data protection law was adopted in accordance with European Union standards and a special working group was formed, one of the primary tasks being the establishment of an IT Institute and for the security and security of data. The privacy law is being prepared to provide the basis for further development and security and reliability of public services. According to the European Union's recommendations, 20, 12 are planned for citizens and eight for business entities. It is a very important ability for state authorities to recognize the importance of this area for the development of the state and not to allow it to develop in a song. As far as I've noticed, therefore, at the level of individual ministries and local administrations, independent information projects are being implemented. That's not bad, but it's got a bad side. The problem is that a single plan, mutual coordination is needed, so other than waste of energy and non-economic use of modest resources, the question of future compatibility of start-up projects is raised. The money to this country is not too high, but in this country, there is a greater problem with the lack of political will to seriously enter into the realisation of projects for the faster development of electronic administration. In Macedonia, representatives of information technologies and businesses in the so-called "information technologies" joined together. a pressure group, so the e-Government project can be promoted in the government. The Montenegrins waited a long time, but decided to make up for it quickly. A strategy of the information society and an action plan for the development of electronic administration was adopted in June and until 2007. In this plan, 104 projects were planned, nine in the area to implement a long-term plan covering 17 civil service services, 12 for business entities, the priority is to establish a broadband network between the government itself and local self-government and, normally, the central register of citizens, where the company register would be upgraded. In the realization of the electronic administration, the lack of political will is a bigger problem than money. In order for this law to come into life, proper communication infrastructure is needed and broadly explained. The role of telecommunications companies in this country for this job is of great importance. Normally, more ministries, not only the Ministry of Science and Technology, but also the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, are needed to implement the projects. The security of a country depends on the information structure of that country. The role of the country in the development of the information society is enormous. Experiences from developed countries say that in developing an information society, countries must play an active role and must play a special initiative, on a competitive and liberalised market. Therefore, it should enable the availability of information services to all citizens equally, to provide a legal environment for successful and secure electronic business, which makes this law, to stimulate digitisation together with organisations that are focused on sensitive populations, young and old, certain rural and poorly developed areas, because the internet is for many remote areas, if Serbia is networked, and can, the only window in the world for remote learning, as it seems in the countries where they are developed, and this is Australia and Canada. I set an example in the conduct of electronic business in the state and public administration, i.e. to give, and in particular to enable Internet access to administrative and other state bodies, to ensure the urgency and accessibility under equal conditions to public data and to develop a partnership relationship with individual actors in the area of development of information structure and services, especially in the local contexts, so that these relations are transparent. G17 Plus will vote in favour of such a law that has long been expected in the professional circles that are interested in this area I hope that the other parliamentary parties will give their consent and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-12-01-0.u9533	Thank you. Time's up, we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Tomorrow, the first word has a National MP Zoran Krasic, and then a National MP, Milica Gavrilovic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Gašo Knezevic, Goran Svilanovic, Slobodan Mihajlović and Zoran Mašić (before noon). We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE ELECTRONS SIGNING The Word has a National MP, Zoran Krasic, and let the National MP Milica Gavrilović be prepared. At the same time, in order to organise your affairs, allow me to inform you in advance, so, after the day's work is completed, on the basis of article 84, I will determine that you are both working on Friday and Monday, so that you can have your time.
