ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. According to official records, 170 MPs have been reported. Please determine if we have a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Goran Knezevic, Nikola Jovanovic, Radoslav Jovic, Zarko Korać, Dragor Hiber, Vladan Vukicevic, Meho Omerović and Vojislav Kostunica; Branimir Trajkovic will be late. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the Ministry Act as soon as possible, creating conditions for selecting the president and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the invitation of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2004, which was convened at the request of 102 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, the following Dn e n e d 1 was established. The draft law on ministries, submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Since the draft law of the established agenda is proposed to be considered by emergency procedure, the competent committees, or the Government, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinion, during the course of the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF MINISTRATIVES You have received a proposal for a law on ministries submitted by MP Radojko Obradović. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Slobodan Lalović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Gordana Komić and Milena Milošević, Gordana Comić, Dragan Rafailović, Dusan Petrovic, Aleksandar Vlahović and Dusan Petrovic, Anita Beretic, Anita Beretić and Aleksandar Radosavljevic, Snezana Lakicevic - Stojačić, Nikola Novaković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milos Jevtic, Svetislav Krstic, Brance Stojanović. The amendments to be submitted until the opening of the search will be sent to you afterwards. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee before we open a search in principle, please, in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let us decide whether or not we will begin the debate without the shared opinion of the committee responsible. It will be divided during the debate if we agree to start without a divided opinion. Please let us be clear about this. I'm closing the vote. For 96, against three, abstentions, there was no vote of 70, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to begin the debate, a principled search before the opinion of the committee in charge is given. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to file charges. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter, MP Radojko Obradovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u759	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as a representative of the motions, I will introduce you to the basic elements of the Ministry Act. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 95(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the ministry and special organisations, as republican authorities, regulate their organisation and jurisdiction by law. At this point, there is a Law on Ministrys, currently in force, which organises 19 ministries and seven special organisations. This bill reduces the number of ministries from 19 to 17, redecorating the jurisdiction of certain ministries and creating conditions for much more effective government work. In the last government, we had 19 ministries, at one point seven vice-presidents, and now five vice-presidents and a president, a total of 25 members. The government was much bigger than the European country's government. It was one of the largest governments and its numbers were one of the reasons for inefficiency. I say one, there were many, and the number of members of the government must have made it impossible to work effectively. With our bill of law, we reduce the number of ministries to 17. A new ministry is being introduced, several ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction are uniting, the new Ministry of Capital Investments is taking over all their responsibilities. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Employment are uniting and becoming a single ministry, and a new Ministry of Science and Environment Protection is being introduced. I would especially point out the introduction of a new ministry, the diaspora ministry. That ministry wasn't in the previous government. Its establishment creates conditions to improve all ties with our people who are distracted. At this point, we don't know exactly how many of our people are in the distraction. We believe that education of this ministry will create conditions for all of our people to be involved in the political, economic and cultural life of the Republic of Serbia. The question can be asked, and we will see when we get to the amendment why some ministries are gone or why certain authorities aren't organised as ministries. The existence of the ministry is not a prerequisite for problems in a particular area to be solved. That would be in the last three years. Many ministries were founded, so it did not move almost a millimeter of problems that existed in these restaurants. I would list only one ministry - the Ministry of Natural Resources and the protection of the environment. Although it was educated nearly two years ago, no law was passed to regulate the situation in the area. We have suggested that management be organised at this time, we will also propose a law that regulates the area and most importantly that there is an authority that is responsible for a particular portfolio, an organ that will solve these problems, and that we at the National Assembly are controlled by the work of the Government and all bodies. In this opening statement, I wouldn't have owed it, of course there'd be an opportunity and during the debate, I'd just point out one thing. The government is taking responsibility for the situation in all the corridors. In most European countries, the government has much greater freedom in its internal organisation. She is simply responsible to solve all the problems that exist in the resolutions. It corresponds to the National Assembly, and the way it will be organised is treated as an internal matter of government. Of course, the next step is to solve all these problems that we have forming government. The prerequisite for this is the adoption of the Ministry Act. We will talk about it today, and I hope that the bill will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u760	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u761	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Democratic Party will assess, depending on whether some of the amendments to which we want to improve this bill will be accepted, whether or not they will vote for this proposal, just as we did in the Law on the selection of MPs, when the Assembly accepted our amendment to ensure 30% of women's representation in political life, i.e. on lists of political parties participating in the elections. So, when it was accepted and women were incorporated in such a way into Serbia's political life, we accepted the bill on the selection of MPs. We don't think the prerequisite for efficiency is that it's been reduced by just two ministries. So far, according to existing and valid law, we have had 19 ministries, and now it is proposed that we get 17 ministries. We don't think that's a prerequisite for the efficiency of the government's functioning. The prerequisite for efficiency is certain and how the ministries within the government will be organised. We tried to propose to the amendments that model that we recognize as the best, not only on the basis of how the previous law was structured, but also on the basis of the experiences that came from the work of the Government in the previous period. We believe that, if we talk about individual ministries, too much jurisdiction is concentrated in the Ministry of Capital Investment. It is simply necessary to find a superman who could unite and work traffic and telecommunications and urbanism and construction. Indeed, someone who needs to understand both the work of engineering geodesy and the bonding relations, and in intermodal traffic and radio spectrum, should be an intellectual gromada. I don't know if you're going to find such an intellectual lump, but it's really a very big problem that we're facing right now. In that sense, we have proposed to retain the existing organisation of ministries. So, especially the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications and especially the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction. The DS parliamentary group has also proposed that the environment ministry, as we have had so far, be specifically singled out. It is true that it was in turn, and it is true that we cannot be completely satisfied with the fact that no environmental law has been passed in the previous term. He was on the agenda, the MPs of the parties to form the government refused at the last session to put the law on the agenda. That's the whole truth. We insisted that the law be passed, regardless of what was at that session and the point of trust in the government. It was undeniable and to vote and not to vote for the government's mistrust, but with that point he found himself, and there was no reason to refuse, a law on environmental protection. Now it's not right for us to transfer that law to be passed. Neither the bankruptcy law nor the company registration law was found, nor the value added tax law was found, and all were proposed. Our will was, in a political sense, for these laws to be found on the agenda and to be adopted independently of the fate of the government. Today we wouldn't have a problem with the World Bank if there was enough wisdom and political responsibility for that. The DS parliamentary group also proposed the separation of the Ministry of Environment Protection as a special ministry, because of the 70,000 regulations needed to bring our rights in line with European Union law, 27 000 are prescribed directly or indirectly, in relation to the area of environmental protection. It's something that's extremely important right now. The state of environmental protection in our country is at the moment such that it must be sent to a special ministry. It is a practice in other European countries. We have also proposed a special sports ministry. It did not exist in the previous law, but showed practice that it would be necessary, given that several hundred thousand citizens of this country are engaged in active sports, in order to be constructive to single out a special ministry in this regard. The current director of the Sports Agency is at our MP's club. He suggested his amendment that such a ministry be singled out. We will not tie our vote to the fate of that amendment. I say there was no special ministry so far, but we think it would be necessary for such a ministry to be established. One of the major shortcomings in this bill is that there is no special ministry to deal with the protection of socially endangered categories. So, the special ministry must be established, it must exist. We are a country that has reached a figure of almost 50% of the socially endangered population and care for these people must be institutionalised at the level of a special ministry and a special administration that would deal with it. So I note that it is not an argument of efficiency that you have two ministries less than the previous government. It is that two salaries will be paid less for ministers, there will be two ministers less, or there will be two ministers and two vice-presidents less, so it will be four salaries, but we will come to a serious problem in the functioning of certain areas. We also mentioned social ageing, and environmental protection, and traffic, i.e. urbanism and telecommunications. In order for these ministries to function, there must be a person, a person who is politically responsible for each of these areas. They cannot be sent in a valid manner if we do hyperproduction of jurisdiction within individual ministries. So, to be clear, this is important because of Serbian citizens, because there are fewer ministries or there are two smaller ministries, it means that it decreases by several tenths, several hundred or several thousand republican administrations. No, it just means that those ministries, those administrations, those workers in the republican administration that already exist and are already working in certain areas will be restructured differently. So, let's not mystify the matter of whether or not we cut by two government ministries, because it really doesn't bring anything, and seriously it will, especially at the capital investment ministry... and to tell you the truth, I don't know what capital investment means. That's pretty capital, like the term to tie to investment, I don't know. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: You haven't read Marks.) I haven't read Marks, I agree. Maybe that's the key problem. As far as the diaspora ministry is concerned, we've suggested some changes. We agree there has to be a diaspora ministry. This is a constructive proposal, with us not agreeing on the part relating to facilitating imports of goods and equipment in order to carry out their activities, firstly, because it is not the Republic's jurisdiction, but rather the jurisdiction that is concentrated on a federal level and secondly, because it can be a source of abuse. For example, we have emigration, especially in Switzerland and Germany, about 500,000 Albanians, according to some estimates, which, if they are better organised, which is an emigration that is better organised, could be exploited, and this is a population that is highly market-oriented, or trade-related, could, through the organisation of that diaspora, which is much more organised than Serbian, come to trade and bring down, for example, the industry of white techniques or some industries that exist in Serbia, through prices which would be dumped, conditionally said, or privileged to this type of category. I don't think we should mix the diaspora and the rights that diaspora in political terms and in other sense assign with something relating to the purchase of consumer goods or to the purchase of certain other products, especially because in a legal sense this is also not a republican jurisdiction, but a jurisdiction relating to the federal level, or the level of the community of states. We tried and we suggested that the Ministry of Information Society be established. Information in our society and in our country has been neglected. It's not just about using computers and using the Internet daily, it's not just about business Internet use, it's about civilization achievement, it's about how the economy works and society. We believe that such an amendment will contribute in this sense to the fact that our information society or almost illiterate society improves. So, the Democrats will vote in favour of this law if we estimate that our proposals are accepted, or if we estimate that, based on the acceptance of our amendments, there can be a qualitative improvement of this law, and I especially ask that we show wisdom in this ministry of capital investment and that we do not sacrifice, by political trade, the most profitable and at this point, the most significant areas for our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u762	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill will not be subject to special attention from the SRS parliamentary group. This law or bill of law or relations that he will regulate were created on election night on December 28th, when it became clear that the most votes were won by the SRS and when someone realized they were collecting others, to see which assembly would bring 126 MPs and called it so. A democratic block. Thus, 1,160,000 Serbian Radical Party voters in Serbia remained outside a democratic bloc. These voters are not Democrats, because they voted for a non-democratic party that participated in the elections and won the elections. When the absurd was established in the Serbian public, it was then needed to be further implemented through the principle of settlement within two months in which anyone who helped form a government became a member of the democratic bloc. The definition of who is democratic in Serbia -- a Democrats -- is one that now helps you form a government. They are now democratic forces, and those who will remain outside the government, they are non-democratic parties until they decide to enter the government; by the very act of entering the government, they become democratic forces and belong to the democratic bloc. But it will remain to be written by reasonable journalists when this time passes in which we claim that institutions are in crisis and that all crises will be resolved by the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am telling you, the crisis begins when you are instituting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when this law comes into force, when you elect a government, when you congratulate each other, and I will congratulate you on that choice, because that government will be followed by 126 MPs, and the next day you will scratch your head. We don't want to stop you from getting there at all. We haven't written any amendments, we won't even discuss this bill. You want to form a government, you have the right to imagine that government, to establish it, to entrust the ministries with jurisdiction, that is your basic right that comes from a number of 126 MPs who will support the government. It's just that there's always enough common sense to think about. He can't give in anywhere. They were not remembered in the history of the people who have always yielded, because in that relention one day, the measure is lost. In this coalition, you lost weight. And your public appearances that you justify all this now stemming from the coalition contract say that you lost weight. Because how else can I interpret that when it comes to the U.S.S.S., it can be said that it is undemocratic, that it will not be West. One gromada said the other day - we can't go with them because they were traveling to Iraq to visit Iraq when it was bombed by America. And all these phenomena are ignored by someone else who wants to enter the democratic block. And then you say, "Stop, tell him not to talk much about Iraq. We were in Iraq, too, or whoever supported us in Iraq." (Louds from the O.R.: Who? It doesn't matter who. You're all one now. You have 82 MPs against you. And those who now write amendments to this bill, which now remembered what the ministries should look like, let them ask me too – who? Those who told us that every day the session is expensive because of the obstruction that we achieve by writing amendments today gives us more than 70 amendments to the tables. [[Applause]] You see the cat waiting, then he comes to the door. But to shorten the discussion because I think it should allow you to establish a government as soon as possible, first because Serbia has the view that the government needs to be built up as soon as possible, and then, then, we have no radicals to do until you've established a government. We have no one to criticize, no one to analyze, no one to attack, no one to sit behind our backs. Believe me, it will be harder for you than for any government in Serbia. If that means making you rule better, look forward to it. And if you think you have a bad reign, for God's sake, scratch your head, it's waiting for you at every point in the agenda of 82 MPs of the SRS. Don't think we're getting any euphoria, but those who won the election are waiting for you. You avoid it and make some bypasses. You are currently preventing what is inevitable in Serbia. Well, good luck to you, but I want to do a lot better for us, because we're going to have a very difficult job. I see, you're already being arrogant, you're getting strong, you're getting strong. I see, some kid's starting to get threatened. If the great ones teach them to threaten the radicals, let the great ones come out to threaten us, and if the little ones only threaten because they are small, one Latin proverb says: "Mouse and on the hill when it climbs, it remains small." He may see better, but he's small. We'll wait for the government. We will not personally discuss the composition of the government, and it is your job, it is your choice and it is your honor, pride or shame, but you know, in large coalitions, large in the sense that there are many members, you have no opportunity to influence members of the coalition, whom you will propose to the government. That's the basic problem. What you're saying in the paper that more personal solutions are being negotiated is not true. Find me a political party that will allow a coalition partner to tell her who will be the minister. Because I spent 13 years here and I didn't know enough how parliament and government function. So, even when there's a government election, we're not interested in personal solutions. She should be interested in whoever puts the government together and who's going to vote for that government. We're interested and waiting for the government's first moves. You know, that government won't deserve, I mean never, our support. I am convinced that because it is being put under pressure and blackmail, because it is a semi-transition solution itself, it is waiting to allow for a transitional solution to be formed, which means that this year we will have extraordinary parliamentary elections and that in these extraordinary parliamentary elections you will also have the opportunity to show yourself then and as people who have exercised power in Serbia. In these elections, you said you wanted to tear down one government, and that wasn't enough for Serbian citizens to give you most of it. In the next election, only more SRS will have the chance to say – we want to bring down this power, we know how to rule better than it. From this moment on, from this law or tomorrow, as of Tuesday, when you form a government, Serbia is divided into two blocks: one block that governs both the SRS. In parliamentary democracies, in developed democracies, each time changes, because whoever was in power in the next elections eventually waits for two mandates in power and goes into opposition. You will go to the next election, no matter how many of you join together, to the opposition of the SRS, and I guarantee it to you now, remember the date.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u764	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u765	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we didn't remember what the ministries should look like now, but we have proposed a structure that has worked more or less at the level of the Republic Government. So we suggested that there was a special ministry of environmental protection, we felt it was pointless for the same ministry to be the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction and the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. Our amendments don't come down to obstruction, find an amendment where it says -- instead of a point being placed, it starts with a capital letter; find one amendment that's in terms of obstruction. So there is no obstruction; as we voted yesterday, we will think about it, and depending on how the Assembly votes for our amendments, whether we accept this bill or not, we will not obstruct anything. We will, in any case, be a fierce opposition to any unstructured proposal, and the proposal is that there is no protection of the environment, as a special ministry, when out of 70,000 regulations that are to be harmonised with European Union rules, 27,000 refers to environmental protection. It's a completely anti-European proposal. Depending on how our amendments are treated, we will behave, we will not be against at all costs, we will not be irresponsible, we will be fully responsible. Given that we know how individual ministries function and that we have experience in this sense, I think we can say and propose those proposals that we think will contribute to the work of the government. It cannot contribute to the government's work that instead of 19 ministries there are 17 ministries, if you concentrate in them competencies that are completely pointless and completely contradictory to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u766	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the G17 Plus parliamentary group will support the draft ministry law, primarily because we believe and agree with Serbia's public assessment, or Serbia's citizens, that we must get a new government as soon as possible. We think that this process will be very important for exactly two reasons. One is the continuation of economic reforms, i.e. the implementation of effective and above all European policies, and the other concerns the functioning of institutions, i.e. the building of democratic institutions in line with the European integration process. The question arises to what extent this bill can respond to these demands, which will, above all, be put before the Serbian government itself. If I can agree in principle that the reduction from 19 to 17 ministries does not constitute a significant saving of funds, i.e. rationalisation, I must draw attention when it comes to the rationalisation of the Government (although it is not in the bill because it does not belong to that jurisdiction), to the fact that after the existing six vice-presidential positions in the Government, the future will have only one rule. I think this represents a significant rationalisation, especially in the sense that the very powers of the Deputy Prime Minister have not been clearly defined. In a formal sense, yes, but in fact it was very vague and practically those positions consisted of political functions, which, of course, was legitimate at that point, but certainly not rational. On the other hand, the issue of those laws that need to be passed within the shortest time limit, which will be subject to the relevant ministries provided for by this law. Here I would simply refer to the laws already mentioned by the World Bank behind the pay phone. I remind you that the first on the list of these laws is the Budget Law that this assembly must adopt, on a proposal from the Government, by 31 March when the deadline for the temporary financing of the state expires, and the current proposal of the existing Government is assessed by the World Bank itself as inadequate at the moment. Therefore, it is really necessary to join the formation of the government, or all relevant ministries, as soon as possible, so that Serbia does not wait to resolve the burning issues that will not be important only for this assembly, or for the competent ministry, but also for other ministries that carry out their responsibilities on the basis of budgets, and within them, the Ministry of Labour, and protection, there are also social issues. In principle, I can agree that the environmental issue is of paramount importance not only for Serbia but also for its European integration process. But on the other hand, in addition to the fact that there was a Ministry of Environmental Protection in the previous government as a special ministry, we had several cases of catastrophic environmental threat which, due to the inadequate policy that was conducted, was not only in that domain, which, due to the unfortunate incident that we were explained, did not have adequate environmental protection, but was further endangerment of the environment. We believe that, in this domain, legislative action is particularly important, especially in the field of harmonisation of our regulations with relevant European Union regulations, and that, in this sense, the current ministry, so the Ministry of Science, within its competence, is able to carry out the affairs of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and to propose constructively to the Assembly the laws of that area. Finally, we are very pleased that the diaspora ministry is being established. A few days ago, when it came to the law amending the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, we talked about how important it was that certain issues related to the records of our citizens abroad, as well as the rights provided to them, be resolved through a comprehensive law on diaspora, and we hope that this ministry will be very active in this regard. Finally, I would agree with something that was said here earlier, which is that the new government of Serbia is going to be very difficult. Of course, it will be very difficult for her because, in the first few months of her activities, she will have to deal with, first of all, the issues of development, or the establishment of a new reform economic policy, as well as the approach to a fundamental reform of the institutions, in order to get stable and democratic institutions. Of course, it will be difficult for her to face the fact that we have had a major stalemate, or stagnation in the process of reforms that has been going on for a little longer than a year. Also, I wouldn't get involved in assessing how this government is going to work. The usual practice is and it is normal to allow the government to work normally after forming a government for a reasonable period of time, which is usually 100 days. I think this government deserves and should have a chance to show how it will approach all these burning issues. If it were going to be easy for her, she certainly won't, and I would like to hear every constructive and well-intentioned criticism from that government, because it is also served by the highest legislative institution of this country, the National Assembly. On the other hand, I think it's necessary for her to form as soon as possible, start working and get a chance to work in an efficient, rational and stable way. For this reason, G17 Plus will support the proposal for a law on ministries, in line with all those objectives and tasks that will stand before the government, which G17 plus through the work in the government will stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u768	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The first reported MP is Bojan Dimitrijevic, followed by the National Messenger Gašo Knezevic. Bojan Dimitrijevic gives up. The word is Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u769	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I apologize for this little incident, because I was outside. The position of the Serbian Radical Party that it will not be subject to the interest of the Ministry Act is a legitimate position. I often think that a man who finances and invests something in building a house has the right to say where he wants the living room, where he wants the bedroom, at least basic facilities. On the other hand, we can say that it's a matter of those who form a government to form a government. That's one thing and that's legitimate. On the other hand, I think Serbia has had enough construction since the beginning. I think a man can come in and adapt to his existing condition, make him well and improve his condition. So I think the period of revolutionism is once and for all for us. From that point of view, there is an excuse that a man who sat in the first bench in January 2001 (probably for the first time in his life, because my nature defines me to the middle of the classroom or the end, my spirit defines me there and now I'm sitting there), has the right to show and pass on some suggestions, to formulate them in terms of amendments, and to try to do something that was done, I suppose, and not to accuse, with much desire to improve, even further advance. Rationalism is an argument that is often demagogue. I agree that the number of vice presidents was high in the previous government, as I can agree that it was the product of a particular political situation after the October 2000 event. I don't argue with that at all. However, reducing the number of ministries is a rather problematic thing. Namely, one is the minister's salary and in this sense is rationalisation, and another is the number of employees. As we handle the state, it is indisputable that the administration will find it difficult to cut at this time. Believe me, my experience is that fucking not only in human terms is causing problems, but it's causing problems in doing its own job. Some of what I didn't want to say got figured out earlier, some later, and now we're all making fun of each other. From that point of view, there are some suggestions, some solutions that I would still like to draw attention to to all those who are now coming. First, by amending the Ministry Act from the start of the term of office of Mr. Zoran Djindjic, one part of the social responsibility has been transferred to education. It's preschool institutions, so today your education consists of preschool, primary, secondary and university education, followed by standard. As part of this, there was the Sports Directorate's office. So they were joined together by education and sport. It made me as a minister to treat education as a mother and a bit like a stepmom to sports. Had it not been for the modesty of athletes and Dragan Vuksanovic, the director of the Sports Authority, it would have been very difficult to function. Sports is our big and good product. We're proud of sports, we're proud of athletes. I mean, and there was thinking about our mandate, that we deserved one ministry of youth and sports, and from an extremely pragmatic aspect, since I know where the donor money is, it's the youth they want to support. So it's completely rational for our budget to combine youth and sports and that it exists as an independent ministry. That's a suggestion, and I think it's an amendment. On the other hand, comparative experiences tell us that there is a possibility that high education can be combined with science. You've done one other thing, you've combined environmental science with science. I don't see any stronger buckles, except in environmental science, as in the fields of human interest, there are sciences. Yes, there is, but there are other areas of science, so I think that if something had to be combined, maybe high school education and science should have been combined, but there's no science and environmental science. I don't see any great rationality here. Finally, I want to point to one more thing. Young people, however we look at things, represent the future of this country. That future deserves very much support from the government itself. During the government that I was a member of, we were able to make one consensus, which was a problem, but not to a large extent, about funding education. Please, in any future behavior, make sure that a country that doesn't have a strong education doesn't actually have a good future. Whoever's the Minister of Education knows something, but it doesn't interest me, deserves a lot of support from the finance minister. Of course, we're already entering personal matters, we're entering a power relationship, but I'm ordering from this place that I'd like the future government to pay financial attention to the Ministry of Education, no matter what its composition is.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u770	The word was requested by the president of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr. Michael, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u771	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the honourable MPs, is almost a man who can get the impression, listening to discussions from the Democratic Party Parliament Club and others, to discuss here the trust of Zivkovic's government. All these discussions are actually sorry for something they didn't do. That's what you should have done. You were three years old. Let us do our job. We've proposed a law on ministries that needs to be arranged by the government that we're going to choose and make it possible for everything you haven't done to be done now. Of those 27 thousand environmental regulations, you haven't brought any into line. Now you're telling us you need a ministry. You had a ministry and 27 thousand regulations, and you didn't comply with any of the regulations of the European Union. Now you're telling us that we need the Ministry to coordinate. Now you're trying to convince us that it's the Ministry who's going to do it. You had the ministry for almost two years, and you did not pass a law on the environmental protection system in Serbia. You haven't passed the law, you're trying to convince asadanas. Let us sort out how we're going to work. We are not discussing the trust of Zoran Zivkovic here, and perhaps some of you would prefer it, the way he did it. We are here to discuss what the future government of the Republic of Serbia will look like next week. Let us, who have made most of this House, suggest what this government will look like. You'll have 30 days and a day to file a motion to discuss the government's trust, to bring all objections to that government, not to us to edit which ministries it will be. Look at the wonders, you're also proposing a new Ministry of Information Society. First, the one who writes the amendments does not know, and has had a bit of a fight with the Serbian language, since the amendment that was adopted yesterday and which was proposed is completely pointless, but was adopted in order to, behold, meet someone. And this is completely pointless the way it's proposed. Why didn't you suggest that while you were in power for three years, while you changed the Law on the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions? You've had a chance to sort it out, and you've had a chance to show in part what they are and what your results are. Let us work. It is a highly constructive approach to the SRS that says – we will wait for you on the first corner, on the first corner, when you form a government and when you work. That's correct. There's nothing to blame. Let them submit on the first day a proposal to discuss trust, for this or that, it's an extremely correct approach. Let us sort out how we're going to work, not you. It would be just like if your neighbor or friend came to your apartment and said, "Now there's gonna be a bed for you, and tomorrow you're gonna wear this suit, you're gonna wear this tie, and now you're gonna listen to it." It just doesn't work. You'll have a chance to discuss it. If you have any objections to the government of Zoran Zivkovic to put in, you can do so for the next few days until a new government is elected. Don't use this speaker of the Serbian Parliament to deal with your party colleagues who are now in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u772	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u773	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party has never had a minister to protect the environment, and the environmental law was on the agenda of a session that also discussed the trust of the Republic government. At that time, the DSS voted against this, the law on bankruptcy and the agenda of the company registration law and the value added tax law. That's why we have a problem with the World Bank today. Second, you had a minister, too. You had a health minister. How many laws did Obren Joksimovic propose? I can't understand, I can't believe this House's pay phone is saying the next thing -- don't get involved in our business -- is telling the MPs of this National Assembly because they've submitted amendments to the bill. If that's how you're going to behave in the next period, it's the death of parliamentaryism. No one's ever said that to you in the last three years from this pay phone. The Democratic Party voted in favour of your two draft laws yesterday, and that didn't happen to you. You should be ashamed to say such completely anti-democratic and anti-parliamentary words from here.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u774	Representative of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought there was a ministry law on the agenda, because when the government was on the agenda, and that was there at the end of December, it was known how it ended. I don't see any reason to be nervous, that's what the citizens have shown and they've assessed everything the previous government has done and done. As far as the DSS is concerned, she voted in this congregation last year for all the laws that were good and that fixed things in the vaults. All those laws that were bad couldn't come across the understanding and support of the DSS. I would remind you that the law on the environmental protection system, which we all call upon multiple times, was returned from the procedure because there were several hundred amendments to a law that had several hundred members. Practically every member was burdened with several amendments and the promoter pulled him out of the procedure. The law has not been corrected so far, and that is why it has not been adopted. The congregation majority could and wanted, if they wanted, to put it on the agenda. It's a similar thing with most other laws. So let's not talk about what happened. Citizens have shown, and the efficiency of the last government is measured by its results. It is best to ask employees of the ZTP, JAT, Republic Directorates, EPS, Kolubari, how they assess the successes of the past government. If you want, we can talk about it, but I don't think that's on the agenda today. It's best to go back to the ministry law and talk about what's in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u776	Your Honor, you were the assistant minister in that government. The environment minister belonged to the new political majority in this assembly; not to the Democratic Party, but to one of the parties that will now form the government. Do not honor us, you who participated for up to six months, a year or a year or a half before the fall of that government, or before the loss of the parliamentary majority of that government, do not now follow hands and act as if you have never been in that government. In particular, do not warn us about what is our civilization's right to submit amendments; we have not attacked, we have made constructive proposals in the democratic atmosphere. The Democratic Party does not even have to participate in the work of parliament, if this is in your political interest, indeed, there is no word of the proposal to be heard. So, I didn't even criticise it, nor did the Democratic Party MPs criticise you when you proposed those laws, but we proposed amendments to the draft laws, made a rational argument for each such amendment. If you're going to act like this, if that's why you're going to attack us, then the question is whether you need parliamentaryism in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u777	Mr. Mihajlov, a replica of Mr. Obradovic's exposure, and this is a replica of your mention of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u778	You know what, a little bitter taste leaves the fact that about the state of parliament, the killing of parliamentaryism, as my predecessor to whom I'm replicating mentions here, is the one who speaks of the state of parliament and the counterfeiting of the votes of the statement, not here in the hall, but in the prosecution, because a crime has been committed. It's the parliamentaryism you've raised. Statements of how the vote in parliament is given by you in the prosecutor's office, because a crime has been committed. It's the parliament you made. Who are you talking about killing parliamentaryism? Mr. Pititice, who are you talking to? If as head of the parliamentary group I have to go to the prosecution to defend that vote in the Serbian Parliament, I will find that I have done my job badly. If I have to defend someone's choice by criminal acts, I think I've done a bad job. So you have no right to talk about the death and killing of parliamentaryism. You mutilated this congregation, and that's a fact. When we talk about the participation of the DSS in the Serbian government, well, Mr Pajtic, we left the Serbian government in August 2001. Mr. Obradovic resigned as deputy minister. Why did we leave the Serbian government? Because there was no willingness to fight organized crime and corruption. All affairs are proof that we were right then and that the tops of the government themselves were linked to organised crime and corruption. All the events that followed have given us the right, so don't lecture us on good behavior here in the Serbian Parliament, because the citizens have given you a class and told you - go to the bench in opposition, learn a little democracy, parliamentarism and procedures. It is a lesson in which this congregation majority and MPs in this assembly will teach you to respect the Serbian Assembly and the procedure that must be equal for all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u779	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pitiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u780	I warn of the breach of Rules of Procedure in Article 100(2), which says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is true that if someone has violated the Rules of Procedure or the law needs to file an account with the competent authorities. It's totally undeniable. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was established on the second day of work of this assembly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, by the president of this assembly. I am not warning you, I warn you that you have spoken of this speaker and challenged the right of the MPs to submit amendments. (President: Do not enter the line, Mr. Pititice.) I'd break the Rules of Procedure if I didn't warn you, and then I wouldn't give you a warning if you kept going. ) I thank you, you are very successful in this development of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u781	If you are already referring to the Rules of Procedure, you must also suffer the consistent application of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Tadic. I was wrong, Mr Pajtic represents the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary group and assumes all authority from the president of the parliamentary group. It's my fault I called. The word is from the MP of the people, Živodarka Dacin, and after that, the MP of the people, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u782	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, here we have just now been confirmed that the amendment adopted yesterday is very good, that it really should be 30% of women not only on the lists but in parliament and that once we begin to work rationally, not here to outwit ourselves and to waste valuable time. I would like to say that the draft law on the ministries on the agenda today is very important, because it is actually a prerequisite for the good functioning of the government, which I am sure we will get next week. Of course I want to make a very well-intentioned couple of suggestions and simply speak out loud here behind the pay phone, to exchange views and reasons for and against each other. I have no doubt that the well-intentioned proponent who made such an explanation and stated, first of all, that he wanted to do the government's more efficient work, and then that there was rationalization. Is that exactly how it's going to be, or should we have to experience the ex-post mind that we all had who were MPs in the past? Why am I saying this? It kind of reminds me of the marketing style of the former DOS regime, which has been recognizable since January 2001, when, for the same reason of rationalisation, for the sake of desire, it's not so much budget spending, the number of ministries has been reduced. We, MPs of the SPS, and then we pointed out the need for some special ministries to exist, and I am personally glad that there was an ex-post mind and that this is the famous environment ministry after a few months and it was established. Of course, I consider it positive, and I am indeed absolutely transferring the inability to enter the bill on the environment system into this assembly door for two years. It is not true, as counterpart Pajtic said, that he was only on the agenda of the last session, when he was removed from the agenda because it was also debated about the government. It's true that at least on two occasions it's on the agenda. It is also true that there have been a lot of amendments, but it is also true that we have all been working very correctly on parliamentary groups, working on this law, that a large number of amendments have been adopted, and that this law was indeed ready to enter the assembly procedure. Why isn't that done, I really resent it and put it on the soul of the former DOS regime. I'd like to hold on to it a little longer. In the pre-election campaign, we all kind of swore that we were in favour of a balanced and secure system of environmental protection, and as I recall all of us here, the parliamentary parties, are saying that we are in favour of the EU accession process. Please, if there are already some standards that would be the most painless for all of us to accept them, these are standards in the field of environmental protection. I don't understand why it's a problem and whether we're going to be more in savings or in damages. Why am I saying this? For me, rationalisation is enough, which will be just one vice president, not six, on a new proposal. Of course, all of us who were in the last term, and also those who weren't, we know that it was a tactics to get some minor parties a function, and that was indeed extremely irrational. I welcome that move, and for me it is already a good indicator that it will be saved. It is clear that the implementation of this law does not require new funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but if the existing Ministry of Environmental Protection remains, they still do not need additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, because it already exists as such and this division exists in the budget. Secondly, is it a saving that there will be less than one minister, one deputy, or maybe two or three assistants? I don't think we're gonna lose more than we're gonna get. It is explained that the Ministry of Science, which is proposed to be attached to it - and for a reminder was attached to the Ministry of Health, which was really irrational - has 50 employees, and all people who are being led by the Ministry of Environment have 350. The 350 will be approached by the Ministry of Science in the form of some administration. And no one here can convince me that the Minister of Science will have time, due to all the accumulated problems in the country of Serbia, to pay due attention to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. If you do not want us to accept these arguments, to reject EU standards, to say that there are some huge funds that will remain and will not. I know that, but I'm well-intentioned now, because I feel that the table for a few months, when it's needed to re-establish an institution of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, will take a lot more resources than it needs at this point. I'd like to tell you something that we all know very well. There's no day that we can't see, through electronic media and public information means, that there's been some serious incident somewhere. In the last few days, it's been with an increase in arsenic in drinking water in Zrenjanin. I come from Kickinda, I go through the Zrenjanin every day and I see people pouring water on the wells. There's been a drinking water problem in kickinda for decades. Of course, funding and missing resources are always a problem so that it can be done. The problems are wastewater, outdated technology and the departure of these dangerous wastes into some living water, which is why we are daily disrupting flora and fauna not only living water but also surrounding environments. Unfortunately, we are today a very endangered country, in which there is no adequate water, no air, no land, and not to say that this is all very significantly endangering the health of every resident. We're getting into a situation where we're thinking that maybe it's a good thing that today, unfortunately, a lot of factories aren't working on us, because the question is what kind of environmental pollution situation would be if all the factories were working for us. With this in mind, if we want privatisation, which all of us, who has been going on for the past three years, will go on, the proposed law should absolutely regulate that everyone, any foreign investor, any one of us, who wants to buy an old factory, start it, build a new one, must, by law, provide all the preconditions and that, practically, environmental protection is maximum security. I think these are all arguments that no one here can argue against. I'm really telling you the most honest and well-intentioned. If we won't accept that everyday life, not to mention the situation in Bor, Majdanpek, Zaječar, Valjeva, etc., let's think of something that may be a quarter of a century, but whose consequences we may suffer today and for another year we will suffer. There are young people here, but there are plenty of my generation. It's Chernobyl. Gentlemen, our environment is also polluted today because of Chernobyl, because it's time to break down some radioactive elements for 25 years or more. Only these days can these radioactive components be activated, and we all know, unfortunately, what that means. Let's remember that there was a lot of consequences. I've worked in health care for 27 years, and I'm telling you that there have been a number of teratogenic cases in pregnant women, or that they've lost children because of what happened back then in Chernobyl. Or, let's think of the recent past, in 1999, when under NATO bombs our country experienced, practically, an ecological disaster. What's being extradited, we'll never know, but there's a record of an increase in the number of patients with the most severe diseases. Gentlemen, we must not forget that. We need to invest, to invest, to really determine if there's a cause, there's a certainty, but they depend on what domain, which is linked to a disease that is increasingly progressing compared to what was before that. Unfortunately, the means of public information write a little bit about it, because it seems depressing to our population, but I think that all of us here present as responsible people should strive and resist all means for the Ministry of Environmental Protection to remain and, yes, we are here as controllers, monitoring how effectively it works, because it is the easiest thing to shut down one ministry or make some changes. Without a healthy environment, we practically don't have a healthy man. Health is the most important thing for each of us, and without a healthy man there is no better future for the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u783	The People's MP Aleksandar Vlahovic has the word, and after him, the MP of the people is Sredoje Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, it certainly is the legitimate right of the parliamentary group to define the structure of the government as it best suits it. No one slows it down in the entire parliament or the DS. What we want during today's debate is to really convey the experience we had in the previous period, even when it comes to the functioning of the government, the structure of the ministries, with two basic aspects. The first aspect is the efficiency of government work, and the second aspect is the effectiveness of government work. The structure of the government is usually defined given the goals the government wants to achieve. I cannot talk about the government's objectives, given that the moment MPs declare their choice, they will determine it. In any case, we can talk about the economic objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially as long-term economic objectives are already defined by the Memorandum of Economic Policy, adopted by the National Assembly in December of last year and covering the period until 2005. I am also saying this because a political party that will have a dominant participation in the government of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow, after the government is elected, participated in the development of a long-term economic policy by 2005. These objectives in the economic sector are related to four areas. One is the restructuring of large public enterprises. It's a really big job and a big task for a new government. The second is the restructuring of public spending, which means reducing total public spending in budget expenditure. The third is the continuation of the process concerning European and Euro-Atlantic integration. The fourth is an incentive for public investment or, as is popularly said today, capital investments. How can the proposal for a law on ministries, given the two key criteria, which are efficiency and efficiency, i.e. costs, be seen in light of defined economic objectives? In terms of efficiency, I'm afraid there will be no coordination in the future structure of the government. I think the insistence on reducing the number of vice-presidential seats, which is now in parliament and confirmed, and the truth is that it is not in this law, is not good, because it will mean the absence of coordination. For example, let's take a restructuring of public enterprises. The question arises who will coordinate the restructuring of public enterprises located in different ministries? So we'll only have one vice president. For example, he took the issue of restructuring public spending. Who will coordinate activities in a very important job, which is to reduce health, education, military, police and state administration costs? Each of these functions is located in an individual ministry, but you can't see who will coordinate activities on this very important task. Or the issue of European integration. If this is left exclusively to the ministry of economic ties with abroad, or what it will be called in the future, then it will not be a good way, because one higher authority is needed, because the issue of European integration is equally relevant to all ministries in the government. Finally, let us take, for example, the question of increasing public investment or so on. capital investments. I really don't understand why, to lead to absurdity, there was no energy in the capital investment portfolio, since the level of investment in transition countries is the highest in the energy sector. Or why do I say we lead to absurdity? Because it is quite logical, if capital investment coordination is wanted, that is, to increase public investment, to coordinate it from one place, and that place is the post of deputy prime minister. Instead of continuing to separate competences in the part relating to the traffic of a part relating to telecommunications, two huge portfolios are being combined, which I must admit, and during the previous period did not work at the highest level of efficiency, which is interpreted as an effort to reduce the government's costs. How much is the reduction? The reduction is measured in the gaps. The reduction concerns the number of ministerial posts that are fewer, the number of vice-presidential seats which are smaller, the driver, four ministerial assistants, one deputy, so all 25 people will work less in the Serbian government compared to 40,000 employees in the state administration. This cost reduction is measured in the gaps. Therefore, the reduction does not achieve the target of reduced costs. On the contrary, on the other hand, in our view, given the experience -- and I am speaking of this very well-intentionedly, the interest of the Democratic Party is that tomorrow the government continues to reform in the interests of citizens -- something called the coordination of a clear implementation of economic policy. Another example, besides the Ministry of Capital Investment, is the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. The two ministries must be separated according to their vocality, as they treat two different segments entirely. Both the ministry, given the state of play, must work separately and fulfil their obligations within the defined area of competence. As for the savings and the constant stories that are being imposed, that the 19 ministry government is one of the largest governments compared to other countries, that's true, but it's a wrong comparison. Serbia's government, which is located at the very beginning of the transition, and the number of ministries that existed in the Government of Slovenia, for example, in the early 1990s, when Slovenia was at the beginning of the transition, or any country that was in transition, and then you will see that governments in those countries in transition had 22, 23 ministries, and only later, when many transition problems were solved, there was a accumulation of resources. So today in Slovenia you have one economy ministry, no energy, no traffic, no other business areas, which, of course, can't be the case with us, but that's exactly why you don't have to insist, it seems populist to me, to reduce the government's costs, because the reduction is measured in divergence. It is much more important as well as how the government will function and what coordination on the important project will be achieved. That would be much better if we had not one but more vice presidents, because, as someone here said, it should be superman, so connect and function well, i.e. have two large ministries that function well. It also needs to be a superman, so to coordinate all these activities, and the position of coordination is defined as being at the level of the vice-president of the government. The situation is difficult, but the situation that will be taken over by the new government is incomparably easier than the state taken over by the government in January 2001. I will remind you, it will certainly not be a problem to meet the World Bank's demands on the adoption of key economic and reform laws, as these laws have been in parliament since June and have been prepared very carefully in consultation with all parliamentary groups, but also with all domestic and international experts and public debates on these laws are over, so that, even if in the legislative part, the new government will be much easier. Because at least 45 prepared laws are waiting to be passed, laws that have just previously been brought into line with international institutions that, among other things, finance the implementation of these laws. Unlike January 2001, when the new government was welcomed by an empty register, today's government will welcome 350m euros, which it will be able to use in accordance with the Budget Law, which I hope this parliament will adopt very quickly. In the end, there is no story of a new economic policy. This new economic policy is just one phase in a dynamic, economic transition policy that is defined for a period of at least five years, and in defining that long-term economic policy, the largest number of political parties that will sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow and form that government has just participated and had the most dominant influence. What is being promoted today under the company of the new economic policy is actually the next phase in realising the long-term transition economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u785	Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u786	Mr. Vlahovic insisted on two things, efficiency and coordination. When we talk about the efficiency and cost reduction of the government, of course one Ministry Act can't solve all the problems that the state administration has at the moment. But after this law, the State Administration Act and many other laws that will significantly reduce and streamline the state administration. When it comes to the co-ordination that has been successfully conducted in the government with a large number of vice presidents, I would draw attention to one example, with which Mr Vlahovic is probably familiar: it would be interesting to compare the strategy of industrial development done in the Ministry of Science and the strategy done in the Ministry of Mining and Energy - according to all key parameters are diametrically opposite. When it comes to a memorandum in economic policy, it is an excellent document, but most of the core aggregates have been misrepresented. There were corrections and growth of gross social product and many other parameters. I would quote only one document that says, on the page of the 40th book Challenges and Reforms, that the government as a collective body has singled out the formal decision-making body, not as a place for strategic consideration. The government doesn't seem to have any authority to take on this role. Subtitle on page 40. - A lot of coordinators, but a little coordination. Issue of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Agency 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u787	Mr. Vlahovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u788	What I wanted to suggest well-intentioned is exactly strengthening coordination. This coordination can be set at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister, but you also know that you can also make this coordination by forming a ministry without portfolios, which will have one single task, which is to coordinate. I'm not talking about the past and the theme of today's session is not what it was until today. What happened, you could see. I said the results are seen, 350m euros in the budget register, unlike in January 2001, when the budget register was empty. What would be good and not being seen from this law is the setting of stronger coordination, especially given that the new government will only have one vice president. The 2002 issue of the Agency for State Administration was accurately cited, it is true that most of the work on strengthening coordination in the decision-making and done, after a detailed analysis of the functioning of the Government was preceded, until that period, until the publication appeared. Because of the well-being of our citizens, due to the continued effective process of economic transition (I have no doubt that it will happen), there is no reason not to use previous experiences when defining the structure of the government, precisely to avoid some mistakes that existed in the previous period, and that is exactly how I want you to understand my discussion about this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u789	Mr. Obradovic has the word, I assume, on account of the funds in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u790	Thank you to the predecessor who reminded me that I dropped something in the previous replica. According to the official information that we received as members of the Finance Committee a few days ago (I am sorry that I do not have to show this paper to the MP, but I will gladly give him a break), at this point there are only 192m euros in the state register. That's what Mr. Djelic says. Of which is a significant part of the funds in the Restitution Fund, leaving around 150m, and commitments coming in the next few weeks are 130m euros. So much for the cash that's loaded. As for the previous government’s experience and everything that has happened in the congregation, the current course, everything that happened in the first month, and what happened on the assembly committees, we will not repeat that practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u791	The People's Messenger Sredoje Mihajlov has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Goran Svilanovic, and, if not there, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u792	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to give up the discussion one moment, but I will still address you to remind you of something. First, as a good member of the party, I will support this bill of law G17 plus, because we proposed it and because we have a vision and we believe that under such conditions we will form a government and we will be able to function. I would also like to say that I am close to what was proposed in the amendment to be another ministry, concerning information, is not happily selected because Mrs Leila did not even understand the very word of information; I think that she should work on it and surely the government will have a ministry that will deal with information technology, the Internet, data transfer, etc. I think it's fast now, and if this isn't the time, we can't go in there in a hurry undefinedly. However, I would just keep your attention for one more moment, at the beginning of this session I had some chill that would go wrong, and then after about 10 minutes I felt defeated and finally realized that I was in the right parliament where the position and opposition were respected, where the position was ready to hear the opposition's proposals, to discuss them, to respect them, and I was very glad that some of whom I've been trying to reason suddenly realized that I could behave gentlemenly in parliament, to be proud and probably those who watch us enjoy all this as it goes. I'd like to keep it that way, so we don't spoil what we've just started. It seems to me that after a long time, we first started listening to each other. Just one more thing to say, and let me finish, I won't talk about it anymore; let some not get angry, because some things that have happened can be forgiven but can't be forgotten. If someone reminded someone of something that was, if it's true, argued, if it's facts, it shouldn't be taken for harm. Just to join the discussion of Mr. Vlahovic, who said he had 350 million, and then there was a replica that there was 170 million with debts - I think it's very important and it should be enlightened, whether it was really just marketing, whether he really sold the house a little bit, tobacco factories, and filled the fund. We're ready to use one of the people's saying, "Where I've given you an extension, what I owe you," so that we accept what the previous government did and how it did, we'll continue and make everything transparent and public, so that it doesn't manipulate the public, or the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u793	The People's Messenger Goran Svilanovic has the word, and if he is not there, then the People's Messenger Gordana Komic will be prepared, and the People's Messenger Aleksandar Cotric will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u794	It doesn't matter if the opposition's representative belongs to the Democratic Party holds the presidency of the assembly or the representative of the opposition, which is the SRS. It's important that a woman presides and shows that she can. Ladies and gentlemen, with an apology for not coming, I exchanged information with my DSS colleagues on the death of the president of Macedonia and that is why I am late. It's really news that can shake and I'm sorry honestly, but let's get back to our agenda. So the draft law on ministries here has been challenged with one argument -- that we don't need to interfere with someone who makes a government in the Ministry Act, or with another argument -- we don't need a Democratic Party to interfere with the Ministry Act because they ran the government. Both arguments do not stand for one simple reason: The proposal for a ministry law is not an internal act of government organisation. Whoever's talking about this speaker is talking more about his inexperience than he's saying. The bill on the ministries of MPs of the National Assembly to control the future government of the Republic of Serbia speaks of the government's policy, because the choice of ministries, the determination of the responsibilities of individual ministries, should give each MP a clear message of what the future government of the Republic of Serbia will do and what it will represent. As a result, the DS parliamentary group believes it is necessary, in its discussions on the principle and amendments that we have submitted, to establish a rule that in Serbia, as a changing country, governments that are changing should be formed, progressed, and not that are constantly starting from the beginning. That's the contribution of DS and all of us in this discussion, that's the only way to understand it. The act of my discussion on the proposal for a law on ministries is at the end of the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment and Resource Management. There will be no news for colleagues who were both the position and the opposition in the past meeting that there were difficulties with the government we participated in in the 2000-2003 period to establish this ministry. It's always a problem with the environmental ministry's competences, because the ministry doesn't rule. It changes the ways in which everyone in public affairs refers to resources, which we did not inherit from our grandfathers, but borrowed from our children and from our grandchildren. Our relationship with these resources, therefore, according to what is a healthy environmental parameter (wood, water, hunting, fishing, the amount of healthy air we have), is the subject of a government that must deal with it within one ministry for at least two reasons. The first undisputed result with references from international organisations that, in a relatively short time, since 20 June 2002, this ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved. Another list of jobs, in the light of the signing of conventions (which we have as an obligation as a country to sign), which international organisations place before the future government of the Republic of Serbia, without asking whether the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Management or not, from Kyoto conventions, through border conventions, international conventions concerning the amount of pollution that you can do as a country with your own air to international water conventions, etc. So, there are jobs that have to be done, and in the proposal for a law on ministries, we do not have the power of the ministries to guarantee that these jobs will be done and who will do these jobs. There have been difficulties, I repeat, with the previous government, for the simple reason that this is a ministry, such as and the Council for Gender Equality or any kind of new message of the European and civil spirit, a subject that comes upon resistances and hardships. The fact that we are proposing this as an amendment should make it easier for the majority that is still being formed in this parliament to create a easier start for the work that awaits them when it comes to environmental protection within the future government of the Republic of Serbia. Why the Forest Administration within the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Because it's only logical and it's a European experience. So, with regrets that the topic of Europe has almost completely withdrawn from the public in Serbia, here is the opportunity to accept the amendments establishing the Ministry of Environment Protection to determine that we are for the European principle of sustainable development and relations to the only one that we have, and these are national resources when it comes to the environment. Special acts in the ministry related to hunting and fishing are network acts, as they are related to other ministries. Our amendments concern the separation of another ministry. It is the Ministry of Labour and Employment, of which two ministries are created under the proposal of our amendments: the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Small and Medium Enterprises and the Ministry of Social Policy and Combat Affairs. And that's the European spirit. It is not good to combine employment, small and medium-sized enterprises with social policy. In a normal country -- which we are building together, if we want not to rule but to change, so that we participate together by sharing responsibility in this assembly, so as an opposition, by sharing responsibility for controlling the government's results, we send a clear message -- one is the labour market, and the other is what social policy and, unfortunately, combat issues, for which there are still many topics in this country. The way the Democratic Party is an argument on the Ministry Act is an alternative, and that is an alternative that we recommend to each future majority that will be formed in this assembly. Because now that the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party, the SP and New Serbia in some phases, G17 as a young party for the first time, and the Democratic Party of Serbia for the first time, so there is no one else to be in power after this round but the Democratic Party, it is our recommendation that we resist what the ruling majority can hardly resist by their own free will, and that is the inability to hear the argument, impatience for a foreign solution and failure to adopt a proposal that makes things easier for you by nature. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, that is what government control is for in the future and that is what the amendments and our discussion in the principle of the Ministry Act are for. As an opposition, we will have a huge impact on the government's policy and we want to ensure this influence through reading the Ministry Act as the intention of the government to run politics. One particular segment that, unfortunately, will be least touched here is the budget. Since we're all waiting for the VAT Act, if it is, and the Budget Act, if it is, but then you'll hear us, because we know that government management comes down to budget management. If we are able to make this here in the Assembly as a good debate, it will mean a great benefit to all budget users and good control for all those who manage the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u795	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Jotric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u796	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SPO-NS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed ministry law, among other things, because it envisions the establishment of a diaspora ministry. The establishment of this ministry is of great national and state importance, primarily because of the fact that a large number of citizens from our country live abroad and that they are exposed to strong denationalisation and assimilation processes, and that so far there has been no adequate state concern about their status problems. This ministry, which will be established, will lead the state's, proper care not to lose the second and third generations of Serbian emigrants, but this ministry is designed to take care of the interests and needs of all Serbian citizens. The country's perseverance towards such a great corps of our people is evident from the fact that it is unreliable to know how many of our emigrants are in various countries of the world. The estimates say that between two and four million, and what is known, at least roughly, is that our people live in over a hundred countries of the world on all five continents and that so far the Serbian Orthodox Church has led the greatest worry. This is seen in the data that there are 23 dioceses in the world today, over 350 parishes, that more than 260 Orthodox temples have been erected and that there are 23 replacements in the diaspora of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Our people are self-organizing and today there are over 1,000 associations, clubs and associations that are gathering our diaspora. All of this requires institutional concern for these people, and that is why the Ministry of Diaspora, which will be formed, will, above all, be taken care of to provide conditions for the return of Serbian emigration, for their investment in Serbia's economy, for the realisation of the right to vote now made possible by these amendments to the electoral law. The Diaspora Ministry will take care of the representation of our eviction in the executive and any other authority in the queen's institutions. Then, a very important and burning problem is the issue of mother language education for our children living abroad, because at this point, according to some data, only about 5% of children are covered by teaching in Serbian. From what we're told, it's necessary to create a database of how many of our people really have in the distance, how many of their organizations and associations are connected, and it's going to be one of the priority tasks of this new ministry. There are other problems that will not be exclusively in the responsibility of the diaspora ministry, but will contribute to resolving the problem of denationalisation, as it is a question which and how many emigrants are interested in. Then, the issue of citizenship, and we will try to ensure in this new government conditions that citizenship is given to all those who have submitted the request, by one accelerated procedure, extremely simplified. One important issue is the rehabilitation of all innocents, especially in political processes. The issue of regulation of military obligations, which is a question affecting the male younger population of our people, has not been addressed properly so far, as well as regulation of the achievement and promotion of the rights and social and pension insurance of our people, and above all those on temporary work in Western European countries. So, the work of this ministry will benefit not only for our diaspora but also for the citizens of Serbia, because conditions will be created for the return of our people, for their investment in Serbia's economy, for their more frequent tourist arrivals. It will allow the transfer of knowledge and experience that our people possess, which they have acquired in developed countries of the world. In fact, the formation of this ministry is also the realization of the pre-election promise of the SPO-NS coalition in a certain way and the fulfillment of the positions of the SPD resolution for the diaspora in Europe and North America. I will remind you of the fact that the SPO is a party that has its own committees and membership in more than 20 countries of the world. So, practically in all those parts of Europe, North America where our emigrants live in a significant number. So this ministry is not going to solve all the problems itself, but it will make a very important contribution to the better integration of the queen and the diaspora and the unity of the evicted and the country's Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u797	The word has Dragan Marsicanin, and then the MP Milan Markovic. Dear colleagues, the law that is before you in itself is both a proposal and an explanation. Mr. Obradovic heard different from me the remarks made by those who brought them up and called the opposition's constructive contribution to better government work. He understood it in one way, and I understand it in a different way, because the observations of this kind that were made here in terms of suggestion are actually not just a political question, but rather a bit moral. So I'd like to use my really short discussion as a replica. One of the respected fellow MPs, a representative of one of the ruling parties, said, among other things, that the minority party had no government, but 16 parties and had some ministries, so it does not feel responsible for what was happening in certain ministries. He also told the truth, he says, we had no influence on the Ministry of Environmental Protection. They certainly are, because the Prime Minister's adviser was their intellectual gromat Mr. Srdja Popovic. They're all about intellectual gromats. It is not a problem for the government to have intellectual gromadas, such as current ones, leaving in the form of Cedomir Jovanovic, Gasa, Popovic, Vladan Batic, Milovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, after all. The problem is both the former governments and now these perspectives, the next, and every future, first and foremost, in the responsibility and fair performance of the job. The problem was faced by the previous government, which is why the government is the former. It is also mentioned that someone has stiffed, and it is recommended that the new government work is more efficient, that someone has braked, and that they are probably the ones who have been putting clips at the reform government's points for three years, so they are running in place, that those laws that are now being passed by the World Bank (not to open this issue to the extent that they are relevant and why in this order and in that list) are proposed to be passed, even by a ton of demands, in the next month. These are the laws that now the outgoing government, the government in resignation, did not propose to the National Assembly when the time was right, so this assembly did not adopt those laws. Suddenly, we have all these laws now and thank them for this constructive approach, the attitude towards the government that will be formed next week, because from such an approach and approach, it's as if I feel their great interest in joining this government very quickly, which, of course, you can't come to. Representatives of the parliamentary group suggest something quite contrary to what they proposed in 2000, suggest there are a number of ministries, have concrete proposals to multiply the number of ministries. So, an irrational government is proposed, although rationality is indeed, and there is absolutely right for all those who point out it is not only achieved by reducing the number of ministries, but it is proposed to open new ministries. Suddenly, another current minister is expressing a huge interest, proposing an abstinence, for the new government to be engaged in a special ministry of youth and sport. The special ministry is also proposed for ecology, as well as for social issues. When you remember some previous governments that, with some political circumstances, had to break the ministries so coalition agreements could be completed, so they broke, say, the Ministry of Education at the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, so the Ministry of Higher Education, etc. (you now have one ministry run by Mr. Knezevic, which unites both), you actually see that the results achieved in certain areas are in no way dependent on whether they are carried out in one, two or three ministries separated by special tasks conducted in that ministry. That is not up to it. The results are what they are, and above all they depend on the responsibility and expertise of resolution ministers and, of course, if the ministries unite a number of jobs and areas they deal with, then on the expertise, efficiency and responsibilities of deputies, assistants, etc. who do these things in the ministries. Would, for example, the special separation of the Ministry of Higher Education ensure that a university law, waiting for three years, is passed in the National Assembly? Would Serbia's Turajlic then give greater and better results than that of the ministry run by Gašo Knezevic? No, because Serbia's Turajlic is who he is, and the quality of the work of those people who are at the Ministry of Education is who he is and it has nothing to do with the internal organisation. The Ministry of Information Society - why it was not proposed earlier, why it was not suggested at least at the time when, remember, for days it said that Bill Gates had come, that Microsoft was entering Serbia, that Serbia was entering not at 21st century, we were jumping, we were running, bicycles are working. It was that reform enthusiasm, that euphoria that was created in the media in the formation of the previous government. Remember that Bill Gates was here? Why wasn't that proposal then? That's why it's not just a political issue, but, for me, and a moral question. Thank you for your suggestions, but if you're well-intentioned, and I don't believe that you are towards us, I suppose you're above all well-intentioned to yourself, you could organize the government's work in a way that you think is good for our operation. Indeed, the bill is also an explanation. So the government that will be formed next week, elected next week, sees its organisation. The government will achieve good or bad results. He is absolutely right, Mr Nikolic, when he says it is necessary to let it be established in the way she believes it is most favourable to her, and then to the results of work on the government. Mr. Vlahovic mentioned how great it is to have more vice presidents. This government had different numbers, from case to case, between four and six, from one time period to another. He mentioned the need for coordination of European integration businesses. Here's how important it is and how good it is. You know who was in the current government and who is still co-ordinator for European integration, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Therefore, whether you will have a special Deputy Prime Minister, who will coordinate these tasks or organise this coordination in a different way, does not depend at all on the quality of the government's work. I repeat, first of all it depends on who does these jobs, how he does these jobs, whether he does them responsibly and honestly. There is a fundamental difference, and I hope that there will be a fundamental difference between the future and the current government. National MP Milan Markovic, followed by National MP Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u799	Dear People's MPs, I think it's very bad, that it's terrible when some people at the top of Serbia's political life, in some parties, have their hatred as the dominant mark of their character, have a destructive effect on political life. I know you've figured out who this is, but it's really sad. They're destructively affecting the political life and the overall lives of our citizens. It's a lot of evil. It's hard to talk and talk to those who don't want to hear you. But we have a duty to the citizens. I will, however, talk after such discussions about what I have prepared for your proposal on the agenda today. There's no need to throw away everything we tell you. There's no need for that guard, try to relax a little, open your eyes. Our suggestions are well-intentioned. They only aim to improve what you offer this congregation as your proposals. No more than that. They came from our knowledge, our experience, perhaps some of the mistakes we were learning from. We suggest solutions that meet the needs of this society and the times in which we are. Believe me, everything we suggest, all the amendments we have proposed, and there are plenty of them, if we were able, if we were you, we would accept. We would simply adopt that if we were at this point a predominant factor in decision-making. You are today proposing a framework for your future work. That's very important. This framework, as well as any other policy decision, can be reached in two ways. There are two approaches. One approach is mostly functional, and the other approach is purely political. You have, unfortunately, approached in a purely political way, defined yourself for this approach, and that means practically the following. The ruling majority in this parliament has put everything that makes power on the table and then divided according to the scale, needs and strength of the political parties involved. In doing so, you were completely unaware of the consequences that will arise when you set a framework for your future work on such principles, and you are doing so right now. We've cited a lot in the discussion so far. I will refer only to those solutions from your proposal that are distinctive and thus point to the overall character of your bill, but it seems to me, after just seven days of our work together here, that points to the character of your work in the National Assembly. In the reasons that you cited for the adoption of this law, you say that the new law is passed to reduce the number of ministries and redecorate their jurisdiction, which is completely legitimate, and thus enables more effective government work -- I think that there is what is very controversial, that is where we obviously don't understand ourselves. You think wrongly, if you reduce the number of factors in one system, that this system by logic of things will become more efficient. Unfortunately, that's not true. Do you think that you will be more effective if you bring together two current ministries, the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, into one ministry, which for some reason, which I think is also political, because it is already intended for a particular political party, you call the Ministry of Capital Investments. Do you think the Minister of Capital Investment will be able to make a creative impact on everything that is his jurisdiction? Not for you, but for the citizens, I'll read how much work there is. The Ministry of Capital Investment shall carry out the tasks of state administration in the areas of rail, road, river, air, postal, postal, telecommunications and intermodal traffic relating to: bonds and property and legal relations; surveillance; security and regulation of technical - technological system; position of foreign transport operators in the transport of goods and passengers on the territory of Serbia; waterways on which international and inter-state navigation arrangements apply; international telecommunications (Mr. President, I am such a young man, but so much that I can't scream) and postal traffic; it shall establish a proposal for a plan for radio frequency and radio-frequency distribution plans; a strategy for the development of the traffic system, development plans and other plans for the organisation of systems and relations in the transport of passengers and goods; the approval of the construction and use of both of the infrastructures and facilities. He then also performs the tasks of the state administration relating to: spatial planning and urbanism; establishing conditions for building buildings; editing housing and housing; construction; building land and so on. It's been hard for you to hear all of this read, how many of these powers are in this new capital investment ministry. What kind of minister does that have to be? My colleague Pitiæ said "superman". It must be "superman," but it seems to me he'll barely learn what hit him when he takes it to read the bill that you've given here. If you think after that, that man will be creatively able to influence all these areas and make it even more effective, I think you're wrong. The second question, why do you abolish the Ministry of Social Affairs in a state that has to pay particular attention to social policy? Social policy in this country must be the backbone of every political option, no matter what it is and is found able to manage this country. Whether our country is a little crushed by the social problems that we have successfully, and that was the assessment of all the political parties in this House, we have solved in the past three years. Why are you abolishing the Ministry of the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment? It's not a question for today, it's a matter of responsibility to future generations. It is not just a question of the international obligations that we have accepted on ourselves, which we must implement through the harmonisation of the process, which was spoken of by fellow Pajtic. I repeat, it's a question of what we leave to our children. I think you've done it quite inconclusively, for the simple reason that in the late 2000s we were, at the very least, 47 years or four whole decades. Now you'd like to transfer it to the Ministry of Agriculture, as if the Minister of Agriculture, whoever it is, would have no problem. We are an agrarian country, we are a country that has many natural potentials, but we are a country that has lagged in the agricultural segment for decades. The basic problems of agriculture that we all know are: lack of crafts, outdated machinery, amortised by much of the work, a lack of gulf systems and all that our agriculture needs tomorrow to make competitive on the international market. Will the Minister of Agriculture do environmental work or will he try to secure what Serbia needs for this country? You shouldn't laugh, you should know that this country needs 1,600,000 tons of wheat to survive. You should know that there is still an open question of how many acres of land we sow that wheat on. These are key issues to be addressed by the Ministry of Agriculture, if it wants to do its job, and it certainly will not be able to address the problems of ecologicals that are extremely large for our society. (Lowers from the O.R.: What about sugar? (President: Please don't throw sugar.) I'm surprised you don't feel the degree of responsibility you've assumed by forming this strange coalition, not to call it otherwise. It's not just sitting in benches. You should start running this country tomorrow. Laugh now, but you'll see in a month, two or three, it won't be easy. I particularly draw your attention to our proposal, which is the amendment of my colleague Ruzdic, whom we suggest you introduce to the Ministry of Information Society. Of course, we'll talk about the amendments when they come to order, but that's exactly the opportunity to show one reasonable orientation of our society. It's our view of the future, if you don't already realize that by abolishing the previous ministries, you're closing that view in the future. Keep it open, put that guard down, think about it, let go of the hate. Believe me, the Democratic Party MP club – Boris Tadic will never propose any amendments to you, no proposal that I do not consider to be good and that I would not apply if he were able to do so. Thank you for your attention, which was not a very decent parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u800	The People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u801	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I'm reporting for the first time, I would like to introduce myself to you for this speaker. I am Zvonimir Stevic, coming from Kosovo and Metohija, right from Gracanica, related to the settlements of Novi Badovac. Since we've been working for a month, I'd like to point out one finding, an opinion and a view of the overall situation. There's a folk: "Kosovo calls, calls, and no one hears it." I don't doubt the well-intentioned legislator of the ministry law. Obviously, the law is a little bit more rational than the previous one. However, given the difficult overall economic, social and political crisis of our country over the last three years, it is necessary... I ask the chairman to warn his colleagues, and this is your relationship, how much you care about Kosovo and Metohija. Given the state of affairs in the country, the economic and political situation, for the last three years, it is necessary to identify priorities in the future functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministries. Of course, in this context, one of the leading and priority tasks is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, I hope. But in the proposal for a law on ministries, unfortunately, there is no indication how extremely difficult and complex problems in Kosovo and Metohija will be solved through the institutions of the system. The SPS believes the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is so difficult that it requires comprehensive and urgent engagement through the expressed joint activity of all parliamentary parties and state bodies towards Kosovo and Metohija. I want to give you a message and our request - because you well know that Kosovo is rapidly slipping towards independence, and given the pre-election campaign and the pawning of all parliamentary parties that Kosovo and Metohija are not a party and ideological problem, but that it is a national and state interest - to reach a single programme, a single concept, a unique strategy. This implies, above all, the determination of this high home, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all institutions in Serbia and at the federal level towards the international community, according to Albanian politics and towards the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and the dispersion. Instead of changing the condition for the best and creating conditions for a safe and safe life, returning the displaced, solving the fate of the kidnapped, vomiting the usurped private and social assets, the situation is getting worse from day to day, which is the best evidence of the murder last week. Who contributes to that? The international community, UNMIK and KFOR. We have to go back three years and remember the euphoria. An artificial creation, the DOS coalition called us that we couldn't, that we were hard on the international community and that we didn't know that we were working with the international community and, among other things, with Albanians. In these three years, it has proved that we were right, because in terms of Albanian politics, regardless of the change in government in Serbia, nothing has changed; in terms of the international community towards Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, nothing has changed. Do we have the strength, through state authorities and through our diplomacy, to seek the responsibility of the international community, because it has proved powerless, incompetent, or does it not want to solve accumulated problems in Kosovo and Metohija? Unfortunately, our country's foreign policy activities were inadequate, nor were they rightly treating the Kosovo and Metohija issue. To make the irony bigger, Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic, who comes from Gjilan, has been much more committed to the co-operation and extradition of our citizens to The Hague tribunal, and only marginally mentioned Kosovo and Metohija, without talking about his visits and visits to his co-workers Kosovo and Metohija. The overall policy of the previous government and the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre was reflected in verbalism and inconsistency, particularly in the small presence in Kosovo and the Ministers' Metohija and their associates, which was not the case and practice until October 2000. Special damage to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and to the migration has been caused by the international community's approach, leverage and sub-due relations to the international community. In three years, everything our country has done has worked for the benefit of Albanians and for the damage of Serbs. The most drastic examples of such a wrong policy are the acceptance of Hekerup's constitutional frameworks, participation in the elections without talking about pressures. The government reportedly made a decision not to go to elections, and after three days, the concept changes and exerts unprecedented pressure on the Serbian people to go to the polls. It's formed, like some kind of solution, by the artificial Return Coalition. Let me tell you, except for the two or three people the people know, these other members of the people don't know who they are and they don't know who they are. The "Return" coalition serves to give legitimacy and legality to the work of the Kosovo Assembly. All decisions by the Kosovo Assembly are also in favour of Albanians, and to the detriment of Serbs. The artificial coalition "Return", whenever there is a tragedy, murder, reportedly takes positions to leave the Kosovo Assembly, declared, statement and verbalism, but will not do so because it is about personal interests and solid receipts in the Kosovo parliament. Not to be misunderstood, we Socialists are not against co-operation with the international community. On the contrary, we are for co-operation, but on the principle of equality and correctness, regardless of national, religious membership, not to the harm of one, but to the benefit of the other. These days as well as what is being printed, you are aware, our representatives did not participate in making standards for Kosovo and Metohija, and publicly accept them, which also carries a great danger to the fate of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija. Why are we socialists, including myself as chairman of the District Committee, in favour of forming a ministry for Kosovo and Metohija? Because already the former government and the Coordination Centre have proved inefficient, they have not responded to those obligations that the state needs to make in Kosovo and Metohija. By structure and composition, the Coordination Centre did not fulfil the obligations it was meant to achieve. A massive and inefficient Belgrade-based apparatus consisting of a large number of people who, in practice, in the field, showed they were unable to deal with problems in Kosovo and Metohija, could not give the expected results. We believe that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija would achieve full co-operation with the authorities of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, in particular with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, co-ordinate activities in the consistent implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, to protect international and international minority rights, all in order to create conditions for the free and secure return of the exile and normalisation of the overall situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We are in favour of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, which would monitor the activities of the competent state authorities and institutions, to achieve co-operation and to launch initiatives. Also, in order to establish direct control of work, through working bodies and parliaments, because previous experience in practice has proved to be extremely negative. Next, due to direct insight, planning and spending of financial resources. For example, the government's final conclusion on compensation and wages for employees in Kosovo and Metohija and in the migration, whose application began on September 1st, has done only damage. Those who received little, now have even less, and those who received solidly, in several places where abuses exist, the rest are intact. Payment lists were made by people who, most often by political decree, came to the executive post. One example: ahead of the pre-election campaign, the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought the Law on the redistribution of funds to municipalities in Serbia, and most of all to municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija; so Pristina, based in Gracanica, received 113 million, and no one knows where the funds were named. Or the next example, the ministers raced, a month ago Djelic said there are 500m euros in the budget, now 350, the 150 financial board; probably next week there will be nothing, but what is financed from the budget is regularly late 4 months, I don't know why. I would like to point out the most important areas in which the newly formed ministry would act independently and in collaboration with other ministries: local self-government, coordinators, district heads, health, education, culture, protection of cultural and historical goods, personal and civil status, property rights. And, to stand here, in these circumstances, in this situation under occupation, 21 football clubs were formed in the central part of Cosmeta and in the northern part of Mitrovica. Not that the state has not helped, including the Football Federation of Serbia, but no one has come to see under these circumstances how youth in shoes in meadows plays games. Two half seasons were played. Transport and telecommunications, privatisation, work and employment, social policy, privatisation, economy and small economy, trade, tourism and services. Finally, unless the assembly majority and the proposings accept a proposal for the ministry for Kosovo and Metohija, it is necessary to transform the Co-ordination Centre in the organisational and humane sense, including the move of its headquarters to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u802	National MP Nenad Bogdanović, and before that, according to the Rules of Procedure Dusan Proroković.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u803	I rarely report to point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I wouldn't answer if the previous speaker's speech wasn't the way it is. I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 99 of Position 1 and Article 100 of Position 3 and I think he was injured during a speech by the previous speaker, who said from this speaker that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Coalition "Return" worked in the interest of Albanians and Albanian people. To accuse the government of the Republic of Serbia and the "Return" Coalition of high treason is an insult, and I would like to ask the Administrative Committee to declare this. We can discuss the justification or inexcusability of certain political decisions. I've had a lot of objections to the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia and its policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, but accusing an organ collectively of high treason is a great insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u804	Replica, Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u805	You have no reason to react for this. There's a stenogram. I don't think that's what I said and I don't think so, and I didn't say that the government and the Coalition are high treasonous. Because of the wrong and semi-tronic approach to the international community, because of what they were doing, I said they worked these three years in the interest of Albanians and to the detriment of Serbs. There's a lot of evidence and examples of that. If it's necessary, we'll document it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u806	Do you, Mr. Prophet, stay on it? The word has a folk ambassador, Nenad Bogdanovic. He's not here. ) The word has Boris Tadic. Six more minutes for your group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u807	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the DS wants to express a constructive stance on the adoption of the law on ministries and the structure of the new government, taking into account, above all, the state reason and the possibility for the government to do its job properly. I must say, at the very beginning, that the remarks why the Democratic Party at the time in which it played a decisive role in the government did not perform or apply, absolutely do not stand, first of all because the government and its structure were not definitely and permanently closed or nailed. The issue is how the government's structure will be changed, depending on the jobs it needs to carry out. And it's not the same commitment for the government for one year as every year, and the circumstances in which the government works are changing. Secondly, even if we made mistakes, it doesn't mean that others should make mistakes. Our objections or our amendments are not meant for us, as Mr. Martian says, to be pushed into a government, not our intention at all, and I say that as president of the Democratic Party. We just want to act state-of-the-art and make remarks, make a contribution to the stability of this country. If the government is not formed on a stable basis, if the way and structure of the government's organisation is such that internal destabilisation is already shown in the organisation itself, then we will all have a problem together, primarily the citizens of Serbia. I must say, Mr. Marsican, that you were speaking of the untruth spoken by a member of the Democratic Party, Mr. Pajtic, told the truth. Mr Pajtic did not say for a moment that the Environment Ministry was led by someone from the DSS, but said that no one from the Democratic Party has ever led the Environment Ministry. Mr Pajtic said that your member, Mr Obren Joksimovic, was a health minister and the fact is that no one from the Democratic Party has ever run a health system in this country, nor has the Democratic Party had a health minister. The government was composed of representatives of several parties. Some parties sitting in parliament today and forming a new government had representatives in the government, at a republican and federal level. That goes for the DSS, but right now is not the time for party burns, this is a very important moment for the government to form, when the ministry law is passed. I'll make a very well-intentioned remark. Today, Mr Michael said that we should leave the parliamentary majority or minority now, with the support of another party who will not participate in the government, that the government itself is being organised without us making any remarks. I think the DSS should withdraw that position, because that position means that what it is is a legislative matter, is the jurisdiction of every parliamentarian, should not be the subject of a single discussion and the address of parliamentarians. It's not a government act on self-organization. Under the law, the government forms a ministry or a ministry structure. Since it is a legislative matter, every MP does not have the right but has the obligation to refer to the law, therefore, to make his remarks and, in the end, parliament votes for the government, not only for its personal composition, but also for the structure on which the government is working. My really well-intentioned remark is that you withdraw this position, because it will enter the annals of parliamentary practice, which would mean that parliamentarians can talk about certain things that are being spoken of in parliament or debated, and there are some things they can't talk about. On the other hand, that position implies the silence of parliamentarians or parliamentary groups. What you're about to say, dear gentlemen -- that you didn't do it when you were in power -- that attitude doesn't mean anything. We may have made a mistake, here I allow that we have made a mistake, but no one has the right to silence parliamentarians, MPs who have received the trust of half a million voters or a million and 200,000 voters, and even that they have come on the basis of the trust of a single citizen of this country; because that's why we're here. We are not here to represent ourselves, we are here representatives of public interest, and that is what every MP, head of the parliamentary group, every political party must know. If otherwise, we have a violation of parliamentaryism, a violation of the principles of political civilization. I'm going to say something about this law, given two principles. First of all, it seems to me that the whole structure of the requirement points to a constant struggle of political and functional principles in the formation of a new government, more specifically in the organisation of a new government. This government has a prime minister, there's a vice president. The discussions you heard from the Democratic Party rely on modern management systems. If one man has too many connections, the management system he cannot do his job. The maximum of connections, given the role of the chief manager or prime minister, should be limited to three to five, because otherwise you will have a stifling job and the government will not do its job. And there will be excessive spending of funds, but not for the purpose for which these funds are intended, but the system itself will consume itself from within. We have one Deputy Prime Minister; it's not our suggestion that this government has five vice presidents or seven, this government should have as many vice presidents as it takes to coordinate related businesses. However, the fact that we have one vice president from G17 plus, which is Miroljub Labus, who is announced in the media as the potential of a prime minister's vice president, clearly says that the government will be divided into jurisdiction and that one vice president will literally be... (President:Time. Can I help you? (President: I say, time is up. Here, I'm finishing up, is it totally out? In fact, he will only be vice president for business ministries and one for social ministries. The government needs to be set up, and that's our suggestion, in a functional way, to be able to do the job for which to choose. On the other hand, the entire organisation of the ministry must be adjusted in such a way as to enable the development of society. That's why we're proposing the Ministry of Information Society, regardless of what you think is unnecessary. This ministry had all the societies in transition, for example, in Slovenia, and it enabled Slovenians to quickly enter business, to solve their economic problems independently, because they mastered information technologies. We suggest that the Ministry of Sports be formed, of course, because this is one of the most promising branches we have, because sport is also social activity, but it is also economic today. We propose that the capital investment ministry be explained, because today it is impossible to unite the ministry, given functional economic development, because no one is connecting traffic and telecommunications anymore. These are separate ministries in all modern societies, that is, in every society. Then, it is impossible to unite the work of the ministry in this way, because it is obvious that there is a need for a vice-president to co-ordinate these activities, but for political reasons, this place is not assigned to Velimir Ilic and my suggestion to Velimir Ilic is that if he assumes this kind of jurisdiction, he will have huge congestion in his work and will not be able to carry out his work properly. We will therefore vote for this law if this law is corrected. It's not just about this law, it's about all the laws. The Democratic Party will apply a constructive approach in parliament's work and will always vote for those laws, despite the fact that it does not belong to the ruling majority, which it considers to be good laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u808	Replica, Dragan Marsican, followed by Dejan Mihajlov, then a representative of the promoter Radojko Obradovic. You can't, of course, go out on the line when someone says you're not telling the truth. So, I said that Mr Pajtic told the lie when he said that the Democratic Party had nothing to do with protecting itself, that it had nothing to do with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, because their senior official was a government adviser to the area and that was Mr Srdja Popovic. I think that's a fact. Saying you have nothing to do with that area is simply a lie and I've qualified it that way. Mr. Tadic would be right if I was telling the truth, if I said what he said I said, but I didn't say it. That's enough ears or stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u810	Replica, Dejan Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u811	Thank you to the youngest chairman. This painting alone is enough to show whether or not the rights of the opposition or anything else are being denied in this House. Was it possible in the last session of parliament that someone from the opposition would sit down and chair the work of parliament? It wasn't possible and there weren't even vice presidents from the opposition's ranks, they didn't even want to pick them. That's a nice thing to say about how it was done and what it was doing, who was denying who the rights were to whom. Don't ever listen to that story again. What we said was the right to comment, the right to suggest something, but just look at the record. It tastes bitter, that you tell someone how and what to do. Your right is according to the Rules of Procedure and do not put us in our mouths that we want to deny you the right to discuss anything and that it is the asphyxiation of parliamentaryism in Serbia. You did not respect that the assembly committees should be in line with the composition of the parliament, so you had a majority of 80% on the Administrative Board, although you had a minority in parliament and in minority as a minority government. That's how you stole the mandates, didn't want to honor the Constitutional Court's decision, and you're telling us about the parliament in Serbia. It's something that tastes bad and no one here is denying you the right. We've heard your call at this point that we should have all been state-of-the-art and that it's not the time for party burns; I agree, but in what situation is different from the situation we had three months ago when you represented exclusively party interest, you and everyone else? How does this situation differ from three months ago and from a year ago, when you advocated both this and that, that no one should be, when you were cleaning up all the institutions from members of the Democratic Party of Serbia? Why do you behave differently and speak differently at different times? That's what we've been listening to for all three years. Why is the situation more serious now than the situation we had in 2001? I would agree with you that the situation is now worse than the one we had in 2001, because you have been in power for three years and because it is necessary for us to be really state-owned and responsible for accessing problems, and we are governmentally and responsibly accessing these problems. Don't put what we didn't say in our mouths. No one here deprives you of your rights. You have the chairman of the Finance Committee, the presidents of the other committees, and you can absolutely control this government. Bad taste and bitter taste leave that you, who have ruled for three years, teach us how to arrange the work of the ministries. You will have the right to put your objections to the work of the government through a debate of trust, through impelations, to vote in non-trust, vote and to go to new elections. From that, unlike you, we won't run. Let me remind you, Mr. Tadic, if you do not remember, in this House during your party's term of office, an initiative to discuss confidence has been removed from the agenda several times, although it is against the constitution. The vote here was to break the Constitution and take down an initiative to discuss the government's trust. You denied the opposition's fundamental right to discuss the government's trust during your term of office, or the mandate of the DoS minority coalition. That is true, and don't lecture us on the rights of the opposition in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u812	Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u813	Of course, it is the right of MPs to submit amendments and propose changes to the laws that are on the agenda, but I also believe that it is the right of the government to propose or the right of the parliamentary majority to propose the way the government will be organised. It is not important that certain ministries exist, because it is not a prerequisite for problems to be solved. The important thing is that there are authorities of the administration and there is legislation, it is important that there is coordination between the authorities of the administration, it is important that there is a congregation control. As far as the government's internal arrangements and coordination are concerned, in case there is a vice president, I would remind you of the Government Act and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government. The government has three committees working on related ministries, which discuss all interresor issues. These are the Committee on the Economic System and State Authorities, the Committee on Business and Finance and the Committee on Public Services. Why the past government didn't use it or why there wasn't that coordination, it can only be an experience for what's next, but it's also settled and I don't think it's going to be controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u814	Replica, Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u815	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always try to be very precise in what I say about this pay phone. So I didn't say the Democratic Party had nothing to do with protecting the environment. The fact is that the Democratic Party had a Prime Minister, and that is to say that we can't say that we had nothing to do with whatever was going on in that government, and not only are we not running away but we are proud of it. Time will show that this government has done and done historical things for this country. I said very precisely that the environment minister was not of the Democratic Party. So he was not a member of the Democratic Party but of one of the parties now forming a new majority in this assembly. From word to word I said so. I think it is inappropriate to say that the vice-presidents of the opposition assembly did not chair this parliament. Very often, Mr. Maravic chaired this parliament in the previous assembly. I don't think it's appropriate for Parliament's president to come out to replicate every debate of MPs. In that sense, I try not to mention personally the President of Parliament. The committees in the previous meeting, this is also a particular issue; then one opposition party did not participate in committees and the structure was in proportions that existed different than it would have been natural if all parties on those committees had participated; simply one party gave up participation in parliamentary committees. I agree that the committees must be a picture of the state we have in parliament. I disagree, too, that we have followed exclusively party interest. We're not following him now. There were more replicas, and I have to answer them. In the previous session, now that we are talking about the World Bank's initiatives, the parties that form this majority have just rejected the proposals of those laws spoken by the World Bank: the law on value added tax, the law on energy, the law on registration of businesses, the law on bankruptcy, and without need, because we have indicated then that it is not disputed to vote on confidence in the government, that the government is going down unless there is a majority in parliament, but there is also no obstacle to discussing this law, as there would be no obstacle now to discussing the law proposed by the government. So, until the election of the new government, the government is in office. Only then did she perform her post and now performs her post and now parliament could discuss the legal proposals proposed by the government in resignation. It's a constitutional category, and I'm sorry if someone doesn't know it. There was no reason for that, because it could have been voted on by the government's mistrust. The government could have fallen, but laws that were of national interest could have been accepted. We will act constructively, and we will accept all the laws that we consider to be in the national interest, regardless of whether anyone likes it or not. We will use our constitutional right and the right that has given us half a million voters, to tell this speaker what our position is, and no one will stop us. As for the funds that exist at the moment in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is true that it is 192m euros in foreign exchanges, but it is also true that it is 424m euros in dinars and $13m. So, the total amount Mr Vlahovic spoke of is that, only one part of those funds that remain for the next government are in euros, and the other part is in dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u816	Mr. Piteic, you resented me reporting to the replicas as president of the assembly. This is an explanation, not a replica, an explanation of the president of the assembly. I have not responded to the replica as speaker of the Assembly, but I have already appeared as a National MP, because the replica was caused by my presentation as a National MP, and I was called by name and last name, not at all state-of-the-art, and offended, because your colleague said that I was false. I didn't replicate as president of the assembly. The last registered speaker is MP Jovan Todorovic, 2.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u817	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I only have two and a half minutes, I'm going to be taxing. First, I would warn Mr Obradovic, as the legislator of this law, that no ministry in its work has a question of concessions. Mr. Obradovic is not listening, but I think it would be important to hear. So, there is no question of concessions, and it is known that we have concessions since 1996, a concession law, and we have passed the same law in the previous assembly, and the gentleman who will be the Minister of Capital Investment is saying that the basic generator of these capital investments will be precisely concessions. It would be good if, if possible, it were precise in this bill. Secondly, as chairman of the Youth Committee and the sport of this National Assembly, I am obliged to deliver an opinion, which was unanimously reached at the first constitutional session of the Committee, that we need to have both the Ministry of Sports and Youth in the Republic Government. I hope that the congregation majority will have the understanding of such a position by the Committee on Sports and Youth, because it is not politically motivated, but by the need to give young people and sports a much more significant role than it has been in the past three years. I say on purpose for the past three years, since the DOS came to power, because when it was in power, the SPS that Ministry of Sports and Youth existed and worked very actively. I think it's time for us to pay proper attention to young people first of all, because I don't see any of the ministries that are proposed to function in the future, which will deal seriously with the problem of young people. Not only are young people economically at risk, although it is true that the young generation is actually the greatest victim of transition, that young people have suffered a lot of things in the past ten years until they come to power and that this very young generation today has many challenges that simply, without the proper help of society, cannot cope. Take a question of alcoholism, smoking, drugs, even from primary school; take a question of apartments for young experts, take a question of young talent. Do any of you gentlemen know in the O.R. today what it's like with the Young Mountains as a social organization that has made hundreds of thousands of acres of naked forest in this country? Does anyone know what's wrong with the Fairial Alliance, with the Young Scouts? So, not political organizations, but social organisations that brought together young people. Does anyone know how our athletes are preparing to participate in the Olympic Games today and what problems the Olympic Committee faces and, above all, in financing or creating conditions to go to the Olympics? We know that even during the time of the highest sanctions, athletes bear the name of Yugoslavia, bring fame to both the Serbian people and all citizens living in Serbia, bring and win medals and break through all the barriers. We don't have a law on sports, we have a law on preventing violence at sports games, but we don't have a state-run institution within the Ministry or a government that would worry about order at sports games. That's why we have examples that stab each other with knives, that fans, traveling by bus, demoralize bars, cafes, etc... (President – Gordana Pop-Lazic: Mr. Todorovic... )......................................................................................................... Socially organized youth care. I therefore advocate that the majority of the assembly should consider and take a good look at the amendments that are in that direction, and if that is not possible, at least in the first reconstruction of the government, after 100 days, we will separate that story about young people, because no ministry, not even the Ministry of Faith, has that segment that would take care of young people, who would fight against the sects and their devastating influences.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u818	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask before concluding a principled search whether the words of the representatives, the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Pajtic, please, as an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u819	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not use all my time, just a few notes. I would support my colleague's position as chairman of the Youth and Sports Committee of the SPS. We have also submitted an amendment that we have proposed to introduce a special sports ministry and I am glad that this is the SPS position. I think we will really contribute in a constructive sense that several hundred thousand citizens of this country who are actively engaged in sports find their institutional expression in forming a special ministry. As a party, regardless of whether or not we have the right to suggest how the government should be established, or how the ministries should look, our intention is indeed extremely positive, we do believe that if amendments were accepted, there should be a special ministry of sport, which is also supported by the SPS. So there should be a special ministry for environmental protection, to separate the Ministry of Capital Investment into the Ministry of Telecommunications and Transport and Urbanism and Construction, due to the nature of the job. So, a very difficult ministry like this can work, so that government will be more stable. In a political sense, of course, we can talk about how much and how we regroup, but I think it's very important for all of us how the area of telecommunications or the area of construction will function, as at this point is the most profitable economic branch in the country. That's why it's best, and it's in the best interest of all of us, to drop it, at least with these things, what's the daily-political interest and who has the right and who doesn't have the right to compromise. All MPs in this House have the right to settle and have the right to their proposals. I am pleased that already some parties are announcing that they will vote for some of our amendments. It's actually a constructive contribution to this law. I don't think and don't think that our proposals are a reference to any party and to any political structure within the government, therefore, to all the parties that the government will do, but, above all, it is our contribution in the interests of the citizens. We think it is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Sports, and in particular the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, in particular the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction. We think that if you vote for this proposal, the government will be able to work, or politically, to cover those areas. It's up to us to criticise and criticize only when that government works. That's why what we're proposing right now and it's not any criticism, it's not a criticism of this bill, and it's a positive and constructive contribution. We think with our experience we can help with that. We regret that they implemented tones that challenged individual MPs and individual parties to submit amendments and to propose amendments to the law. I hope this will not be a practice in this House in the future. In that sense, we, as we did yesterday when we supported the draft laws proposed by other political parties, will also support this bill if our amendments are supported and if the structure of the future government looks as we think it will only function effectively. Otherwise, as for the will of the parliamentary majority, or the will of the majority, it will certainly vote in favour of the law it is voting for. In any case, our amendments are just a proposal, unless most of them are for it, they won't be accepted. Once again, I urge you to have understanding of what we have proposed in the best of intentions and with the experience that existed in the past three years. Did anyone have any mistakes or no mistakes? If he had mistakes, that doesn't mean that others should make mistakes. We should all learn from other people's mistakes together. If we go from zero every time, then we won't get far. That is why I call on you to support the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u820	Is anyone else looking for a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u821	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS MPs made a series of principles remarks in their discussions on the proposed ministry law, with proposals, of course, which the promoters can think about. You can see that Mr Pajtic has now expressed satisfaction that some of the ideas were supported by the SPS, and he forgot only to mention Slobodan Milosevic. I'm surprised. Since they are not so far, whenever we are against their views, they always point out with satisfaction, but well, here the situation in parliament is changing from moment to time. In any case, you know that the SPS has expressed its willingness to support the minority government headed by the DSS. This, of course, means that those who want to form a government and their coalition partners have the right to come up with how this work will take place, through the proposal for a law on ministries. Of course, it never ends with some more serious rationalization. It is always, among other things, part of the political agreement and part of some new sightings in relation to the existing situation. So, the SPS has principled objections as to why there are no particular ministries we talked about earlier, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, then youth and sports, and then the question of not so many ministries for Kosovo and Metohija is really raised, as are the policies of this country, related to Kosovo and Metohija. We specifically asked that question because it was in the first news that could be heard after the signing of the so-called. The coalition agreement between the three electoral lists was figure by the ministry for Kosovo and Metohija. We will vote in favour of this draft law on ministries, because we want the government of the Republic of Serbia formed as soon as possible. Of course, that doesn't mean that we will support every proposal that comes from the DSS and any other coalition partner. There was a reaction here just now from the DSS from Mr. Prophetic. I think he's out. He's not here right now. SPS MP Zvonimir Stevic told the truth, which is that the "Return" Coalition has served as an alibi for some of its actions and inactions in Kosovo and Metohija to create para-state institutions that are outside Resolution 1244 in Kosovo and Metohija. I did not expect the DSS to be found offended when the government of Zoran Zivkovic is criticised. I apologize to Dusan Prophetovic for attacking Zoran Zivkovic and his government, but that's true. That's what Serbs in Kosovo know well. Your DSS members in Kosovo and Metohija know that too, those who have formed a community of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, led by your member, Mr. Marko Jaksic. Therefore, do not feel called, and do not act as DS, that you immediately experience any criticism as a willingness to seek immediate violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind Mr. Prophetovic, why he did not react to the breach of the Rules of Procedure when Mr. Pajtic here asked for a quorum to be established, while his MPs did not put cards in MPs' units. It is well known that according to the Rules of Procedure, made by Mr Pajtic and his associates, not to tell my comrades, since he is in the internationals, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since I know that old love still forgets, then of course Mr. Prophetic did not seek damage to the Rules of Procedure regarding DS but to the SPS. As far as DS is concerned, Mr. Vlahovic here just spoke about the co-ordination of the vice president. There's no co-ordination in the government unless there's no more vice presidents. I would remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia has several vice-presidents: Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr. Joseph Kasu, Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic, Mr. Milet Isakov, Mr. Nebojsa Covic and Mr. Zarko Korac. So I didn't mention Covic, because I don't know he's not reacting to the DSS again negatively. Which of these vice-presidents in the Government of the Republic of Serbia was in charge of coordination, what was Mr Vlahovic talking about, restructuring, or restructuring of public enterprises, which of these gentlemen is an expert on this? Who is the expert on European integration? After all, the gentleman who led European integration in the government of the Republic of Serbia was not elected vice president of the DS, which of course does not necessarily mean that DS is not for European integration. Is the fruit of these coordinations that the social product in Serbia, which this Serbian government gave, is smaller today than in 1997 and 1998? Did they lead co-ordination and is it the fruit of co-ordination that Serbia today has millions of unemployed and that is Europe's top unemployment rate? Is it the fruit of their coordination that 400,000 people are fired from work in three years and what 300,000 people are doing in bankrupt companies? You know exactly who the bankruptcy directors are. It is well known whether the result of this coordination is that Serbia last year...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u822	Mr. Dacic, just a moment, I have one announcement, and I apologize for interrupting your speech. Members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee are urged to come to the first floor hall immediately, I think it is a delegation from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u823	I was afraid I didn't happen to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Was the fruit of this coordination, which was so successfully managed by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, that last year the external trade deficit was $5 billion? Five billion dollars is the largest foreign trade deficit in Serbia's history. In three years, the foreign trade deficit was $11 billion. In three years, our country is in charge of more than two billion dollars. I would like to remind you, the Democratic Party is constantly complaining to the parties in the federal parliament that they have not ratified certain agreements and passed laws on new borrowing with the World Bank or the European Bank. It was not about the rejection of these laws, but about the intention to do so by a new government and a new assembly of the Assembly, because you did not find it appropriate that at the time of your pre-election silence you called on the assembly when the SPS asked for the Council of Ministers' discharge, and you called on the Assembly at the time of electoral silence. You must remember that. Don't say it wasn't pre-election manipulation. It's just that you didn't count and you weren't really sure who was going to win this election. Are the results of this coordination, and how the media write, even tax authorities publish, certain commissions taken from the privatisation process? In addition, it has been announced that Mr Janjusevic and Kolesar have taken a commission from privatising the cement factory. Is this the result of these privatisations, since Mr Janjusevic was a member of the National Security Council of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Kolesar is head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, and as I recall he announced that Slobodan Milosevic is on his way to The Hague. Could that have been his reward? After all, Mr. Janjusevic is an expert in the field of security, as he began to deal with business, he bought listening devices, which the state authorities also said were using. Who in the Serbian government co-ordinated the link with the criminal groups spoken of here? Who co-ordinated the bond with large capital? Who coordinated what's going on in the EPS? You can do whatever you want now and transfer it to anyone. You're the one who set the man up. When were you in government for not arresting him and replacing him when you were in power? Who co-ordinated the communications room, and what did the communications bureau coordinate with? The media in Serbia know that well. (President: Mr. Dacic, please return to the topic. The government has fallen, the one you're talking about. ) Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I don't think it's very relevant that such an observation comes from your side. And I've been listening to your presentations these days, which haven't had many touch points on the subject. Therefore, act the same way when you are in opposition and, at this point, you are in power. Who co-ordinated the government of the Republic of Serbia, when they made a change of law regarding the fact that 12,000 people in Serbia could be arrested without a court decision? More people were then arrested in Serbia than during Informbiro or during Pinochet in Chile. Who co-ordinated the sea and the slaughter of birds in Vojvodina? The media said it had something to do with some of the people in the government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, it is well known in the Serbian parliament that you ruled in stealing the mandate and stealing votes, without the public, along with abolished direct TV transmissions. So God forbid this government continues so-called. the reforms of the previous government. As for women, of course I can never speak of women with a hate speech, as Mrs. Lakicevic said last time, because I could talk about them with a hate speech. I would not like individuals from the DS women's sex to attribute to themselves some democratic traits and traits, if it is well known that, along with the conduct of the Assembly by women's sexes, Ms. Micic and Mrs. Komic, there has been a theft of votes, which is why Mr. Pajtic also has to make statements, and other DS MPs, in front of the prosecutor. As for the SPS, we admit we have bad experience with women in politics, but we still voted for Mrs. Leila's amendment to be 30% of women on election lists. So, not to go any further, I've only used the concentrated time I've had, and I've got six minutes left and I'm not going to talk about it anymore. Since Mr. Pajtic is reporting for the replica, and I have no right to reply to the replica, I want to respond to him immediately. The DS now in opposition wants to represent itself better than it was when she was in power. Everyone knows what they were like when they ruled, everyone knows how much space they gave the opposition. They gave as much space in the media as it was enough to announce that someone had been arrested. For Serbia, therefore, it is good that the DS is in opposition. I hope it's good for them, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u824	Mr. Pitiæ, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u825	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, I don't mind if you be the spokesman for the ruling majority in this House, but when you have internal disputes, please settle it outside or settle it in negotiations, don't burden us all with it. If you had been informed, and you had to, when you were attacking yourself, you'd know that none of my partners participated, which is such an agitprop term, a real committee, in the making of Rules of Procedure, but were involved by your colleagues. The DSS is the promoter of this Rules of Procedure. Do not talk too much about Kosovo and Metohija, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, when you did not propose an amendment to this law. Mr Dacic, you're full of the words of Kosovo and Metohija. We've submitted 70 amendments. You should have proposed an amendment to the law. Why didn't you? It's totally demagogue. It's not "murder," it's "murder," Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u826	Right on the line, Mrs. Stojacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u827	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I did not speak with hate speech, but I thank Mr Dacic. If I were a Lakicevic, I'd be a Miss, and since I'm Stojače, then I'm a lady. The fact that the SPS supports the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, or me personally, confirms that the SPS can sometimes make the right decision. It may also have something to do with Mr. Dacic's styling, which is today in sports manners.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u828	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u829	I report to the Rules of Procedure, of course, the legendary member of 100, where it is said that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. I don't know what time Mr. Pajtic is making the lies about this assembly talk today, and I think you had to warn him, because he has now said that DSS MPs have changed the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pitiæ, take the Rules of Procedure and look at the final provisions. What does it say? The Rules of Procedure have been in force since 6 June 2002, and the previous Rules of Procedure, the one on which DSS MPs worked, ceased to apply on 6 June 2002. So, the current Rules of Procedure is the Rules of Procedure that you have brought, and here you have made false here at the pay phone. I ask that the Administrative Board declare whether Mr Pajtic has violated the Rules of Procedure, offended all MPs, especially the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u830	Mr. Shormaz, let me give you an explanation. It's very difficult for me to apply your non-democratic Rules of Procedure, so I'm going to leave you two to discuss it with each other. Here you go, Mr. Pititice.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u831	The Honorable President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Shormaz, since you are obviously continuing practice from today's day of depriving MPs to submit amendments and to propose in any way to amend your proposals, then it is likely, by that, that the breach of the Rules of Procedure when someone says that you are the Proposer of Rules of Procedure. By the way, I'm referring to what you said. We can turn the last page of the Rules of Procedure and see that the change you're talking about consists only of three members. The basic text is proposed by the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u832	Mr. Shormaz requests that the Administrative Board plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Right on the line, Mr. Ristivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u833	Dear fellow Members of the People, let me rephrase to Mr. Pajtic, who honors here some differences within the coalition. Mr. Pajtic, for the past seven or eight months, this country has been living within the disputes that exist in your party, which are being broken through the Serbian government. Ministers are elected against individual coalitions and you're transferring some of our differences to the coalition. Disputes within your party have stopped this country from what is called Euro-Atlantic and European integration. The last one who could transfer something to this government that is yet to be formed, is you, and what you should do now – focus on the problems within your party. Now finish up nice, grab a broom and clean up. Don't deal with the new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u834	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we've completed a circle of replicas, I'm concluding a principle search, and I'm setting a break by 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing with the proposal for a law on ministries. Please determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert the cards. I understand we have a quorum to work with. You have all heard, today the President of the Republic of Macedonia Boris Trajkovski has died and I ask you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session with a minute of silence. Praise him. Since we have completed the search in principle, according to Article 136(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. I would like to inform you that they have withdrawn their amendment MPs, Mr Slobodan Lalović, on Article 9 and Article 14(2), Nikola Novakovic, on Article 4th position 1 and Dragan Rafaelovic on Article 25 and Article 7(1). The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Would you like the Proposer to make a statement on this amendment? He refuses. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Comic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u836	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment to Article 2. The draft ministry law refers to points 5) and 12) which are changed and read: point 5) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management and point 12) of the Ministry of Science. After point 16), point 17 is added, which reads: "The Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment". The reasons for the proposal for this amendment are set out in the following. In agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic shall regulate and provide for a system of protection and promotion of the environment, which shall be achieved and implemented through the organisation of the state administration through the application of regulations and the performance of tasks and tasks in the jurisdiction of the state administration. Environmental protection and management of natural resources is a priority in the country's development process, as this ensures the conservation of the biological and geological diversity of the region of the Republic, i.e. the preservation of natural resources and the protection of all factors. The adoption of this amendment also requires the adoption of other amendments, totalling seven, which have been submitted as subsequent amendments to the amendment to Article 2, because the provisions of Article 2 concerning the names of the ministries are passed through members to whom you define competences or through transitional and final provisions which define which republican bodies and organisations continue to work. Why this amendment? Just a quick reminder of what the situation was in 2001. The water in Serbia is divided into seven competent ministries and it is obvious that the government's policy in the future is not to put water, as a national first-row resource, into one ministry. Knowing of such a decision, we did not seek the amendment in the proposal for a water industry, only the forest, but in this place I would like to say that it is necessary for the new government to establish a national water management strategy, a basis for a national strategy, through a network body that should be working in the government to control the quality of water, monitoring of surface and underground waters, as well as on the percentage of exploitation or the hydroenergy potential of the total water quantity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is a business of first-class importance. Management of all waste is the first topic for the future government, since there is no waste storage dump according to any European Union standards; lack of monitoring of emissions and emissions in the atmosphere and hydrosphere due to outdated technologies in industry and agriculture. Only a year ago was passed a special Law on ionic radiation and on the obligation to notify the public of the threat of radiation, depending on the size of the UV index according to the markings of one to ten. Inappropriate inspection due to inadequate number of inspectors, their equipment and lack of adequate ingenuity. Then there is an inadequate number, unfortunately, of professional personnel who want to deal with the protection of the environment, for completely understandable reasons, because there is never enough money in the budget. The implementation of international conventions and agreements taken by the state is incomplete - we are expected to have 65 conventions for adoption both at the level of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and at the level of the state community. It is a poor situation in sustainable use and protection of resources; the state of fishing; poaching, very mild changes to the Criminal Law and putting environmental damage to total destruction, hence the decisions to be a criminal offence, punishable by law, and not a criminal act, as well as a poaching that involves fishing for noble and other species of fish by chemical methods or any other illicit methods. So it was the first step in protecting what is a national resource. The fact that there is a functional ministry is a reason more so that in the day of voting we decide to accept this amendment and thus allow a message on the day of the vote on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be voted for by the new government's European policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u837	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u838	Dear fellow MPs, I join the amendment by Mrs Comic to form a ministry for the protection of the environment and natural resources. In the previous term, I was the vice-president of the Committee on Environmental Protection, where we discussed all these issues and where we tried in some way, following the best European traditions, to harmonise our legislation and not to limit the development factor for our businesses in the future. The situation is really alarming. By 2010, we should adapt our industry to the demands of modern production, sustainable development, and possibly by 2015, some businesses could be left out of this. Of the 27 recommendations of the European Union, only five recommendations are used. If we were to use European Union standards right now, we would probably stop our entire industry. It is also too serious a problem to be considered in this way as the proposal on the composition of the ministries has been proposed. We are now, as far as environmental protection is concerned, at the level at which developed European countries were in 1970. I should say that the Law on the Protection of the Environment and Natural Resources was brought almost to an end and that amendments were agreed with almost all parliamentary groups in the Republic Assembly. Unfortunately, that law has not been passed. The establishment of the Ministry for the Protection of Natural Resources and the Environment by the then Serbian government confirmed its determination that the environment is a priority and as a support for economic reforms. Under the same ministry, for the first time, responsibility for the protection of natural resources, including geological research and fisheries, which I recall was within the framework of livestock farming, i.e. in the framework of agriculture. We see here the return of forestry, or the protection of forests within the frameworks of agriculture. To remind us that the Ministry of Agriculture will have a very big job, because there are about 300,000 pages waiting for them, about 100,000 pages to be published in the Official Messenger. The whole regulation requires the work of about 1000 experts in the area of agriculture, which is 250 working days a year. Ten days is necessary for the alignment of 10 pages of a directive with national laws. The legislation in the area of agriculture has been created for more than 30 years and, in addition to traffic, agriculture is regulated by a single policy. I believe that this part of the area of forest protection should be left where it has been and I support this proposal from Gordana Komic to amend this law by amending and re-foreseeing the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. I think we need to change one practice so that those who inherit someone who was before them change everything. It takes a unique development strategy in this country, so we don't start over and over again, and that what was good in some way we don't push aside and start all over again. I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u839	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u840	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group very carefully read the proposed law on ministries and reached a common conclusion that this was not a good proposal. I'll explain why. The argument used in this bill's proposal -- to achieve rationalisation in the organisation of ministries and a better organisation scheme -- does not stand and this is not explained in the bill. An attempt to change through the formation of every new government and the Ministry Act may be similar, and I think that belief is justified, that the Ministry Act adapts to personal solutions, which is not good. In an attempt to explain in the course of the discussion, the bill said that certain shortcomings existed, if they existed, in the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources Management, were the reason for the change of the Law. I don't think that's a valid argument. What we also heard during the debate, that MPs of the Democratic Party dispute the right to propose amendments, is something I really didn't expect to hear in this assembly. If the honourable gentleman who said such a thing wanted to offend the Democratic Party's MPs, I can tell him that he succeeded in these efforts. (Chairman: Please, topic. ) The topic is the observation of our parliamentary group and the amendment, which was approved by Mrs Gordana Komic, who proposed... (President: Mr. Zivkovic, stick to the amendment. ) She proposed that Article 14 be changed and that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Management be arranged, which was a good proposal contained in the previous law, as well as the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development. We suggest that we practically keep the previous solution. This time, I must say, I am dissatisfied with the fact that the bill is not being considered by the relevant assembly committees, as was done by the Assembly Committee on Legislatives and Administration. These committees have come to terms with this law. I have contacted distinguished colleagues who deal with science and similar problems and not only belong to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, but also other parliamentary groups, and they agree that the bill is not good in that part. At the same time, I can assure you that the resolution committees, the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Science and Technological Development, would surely make a decision to challenge such a bill. Perhaps that was why the bill was not delivered to these congregation committees. I have to tell you that such a law would cause concern among professional people, people who work at institutes and universities, why now these two extremely important areas, environmental protection and natural resources and science management, are being joined into one ministry. Perhaps some will justifiably fear that the government’s intentions may be such as to narrow down funding and so forth. I would take this opportunity to call on the honourable fellow Members of Parliament to support the amendment proposed by Mrs Gordana Komic to change the number of members in the bill and thus achieve the solution that there is a Ministry of Science and especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. This would remove the concerns of people who are dealing with these problems, while at the same time allowing science and environmental protection to function successfully and achieve the goals that we all must be working for together, which is the development of our society and our community.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u841	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I ask all MPs whenever they are dissatisfied that the motionary is not able to explain any amendments enough, let them help, but do not go further than the subject. These are amendments, and I'm really going to have to apply the Rules of Procedure and take away the word whenever the MP doesn't stick to the subject. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. He refuses. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u842	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this amendment is the name of the Ministry of Economy, which was previously nominated as the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. When it comes to the agenda of amendments dealing with the essence of the workaround, therefore, in essence with the responsibility of this ministry, I will say a few more words, but I think it is in principle important here to point out that the authority of the Ministry of Economy, under the bill, is almost identical with the jurisdiction of the existing Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. The Democratic Party's policy which, you have correctly noted, for the past three years has been the creator of public life and events in Serbia, has had one attribute, it has been sincere. We also pointed out that exposure before the choice of the previous government, and later, to privatisation as a fundamental social process. So, privatisation is, and as far as I can see, no one has any fundamental objection to this, the basis for changing the earlier economic and overall social system and adapting Serbia to the standards by which civilised countries of Western Europe and America live. To be honest, I don't see the reason why the proposer threw out the privatisation from the Ministry's name. I don't even see the reason for the ideological nature, because, as far as I can tell, that's what the speakers here said, not even a parliamentary group that will support the new government has, too, nothing against privatisation, because that's how one of the MPs here said it, and I think it's recorded in their programming documents. I can't even see the reason for the demagogue position. So privatisation in Serbia is not over and this government will continue privatisation just as the previous government did. As much as the pre-election campaign was one of the main topics of privatisation, and with that, too, nothing will happen. The reason I'm saying this is that in two or three months, when the government's 100 days are over, we are seeing here again, and to conclude that, in fact, the essence of the policy of the Serbian state, whoever was executive power, when it comes to privatisation, cannot be changed, because this is essentially the social process that is civilizing Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u843	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Dusan Petrovic and Aleksandar Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. He refuses. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u844	So the other ministry that will deal with economic issues in a different way is subject to this again... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Petrovic.) Please, no throwing, please. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I don't mind. So, I enjoy the inaccuracies that the Members of Parliament have, but it's a matter of elemental culture and education. Now, as far as I can see, the most important change in terms of the current organisation of the executive government in Serbia is the formation of a capital investment ministry. The main objection the Democratic Party has is that it is not possible to organise executive power in a valid manner if the work of three large ministries is joined, so, traffic, telecommunications and urbanism and buildings. We think it is very good for the state interest to separate the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, on the one hand and the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism, on the other hand, as it has been so far. As it has been honored here to put forward proposals that the ruling majority and ruling policy in Serbia could have applied while it was in power, I just want to say that in the second half of 2003 were very serious and intense consultations, whose aim was to bring about an amendment to the current Ministry Act, and the intensity was to separate the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. Also, we'll see each other in 100 days and we'll see how the Ministry of Capital Investment works, and I'll also say something about his jurisdiction when the ministry's competence comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u845	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u846	I would like to point out once again how important it is to see to the end the reasons for the submission of such an amendment and the adoption of its content as set out in the proposal. If the argument given in the proposal for this law is so unconvinced that the new ministry which has only one such recognizable and striking address - capital investments, as if nowhere outside the scope of these public administrations' affairs, which included two ministries, then some belief that the efficiency of the government (as the reason for the adoption of this law stands) will be improved by the formation of a new Ministry of Capital Investments, just as certain as the convincing explanation set out in the proposal for this law. Only one sentence creates a new ministry by joining the two ministry's works. Experiences so far have shown that the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, which is extremely important for the content and part-round of the businesses covered by it, could form two ministries, but completely competent, that the content of these businesses that are in their work has been developed. Okay, let's take into account the fact that one way to reduce the costs of the administration, it's emphasized here that it can be measured in prominences, and the reduction of ministries. In this way, it is obvious that this was a matter of political compromise, before finding some effective solutions that will ensure better stability of the future government and its high efficiency; indeed, I think it is necessary to stress this more often because of the citizens of Serbia, and we have no negative comment waiting to form a new government and start working. If this was the price of the political compromises of the new coalition formed in this assembly, then we really need to say more times that we do not expect, in front of the parliamentary club Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, that the work of this ministry formed, with this explanation, will be more effective. Of course, coordination is needed for such important jobs as capital investments. Once again, we note that they are outside these ministries, above all in the Ministry of Energy and other ministries, and if coordination was needed for someone who has political weight within the ruling coalition, then this could have been done from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. But if the argument that the government in its configuration is more efficient, cheaper and better because there are fewer vice presidents, because one of these massive ministries is connected, I really don't think we have much reason to expect it to be. But don't be that the DS has submitted amendments to make some kind of obstruction regarding the adoption of the ministry law and the formation of the government. On the contrary, it is our obligation as a party that was the backbone of the previous government to constructively give all suggestions, to have full rights, because that is what citizens who voted for the DS are expecting, we point to everything we believe is important for the stability of the future government and its efficiency. Don't show any anxiety before we get to the formation of a government or an evaluation of her work. It is our obligation to deal with the work for which we have received our mandate in the Serbian Parliament and we will do so in the future. I call on the MPs to really think again and vote this amendment and leave a solution that was quite good in the previous ministry law. I don't see any reason -- if it existed, it would have been given in the light of this law -- that these two ministries should be adopted as proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u847	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Here you go. I would ask all the MPs, for stenographic notes, to present themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u848	I am Miroslav Jankovic, a member of the People's Democratic Party. I would understand the proponent who proposed this amendment and some other amendments when he wanted to fix it. They saw a mistake, they said, they made a mistake somewhere, we understand that, and they want to fix it. But I don't understand when they suggest the recipe they applied. Especially when it suggests someone who's in office today, when the minister, when he's in government, I can't understand that. I especially can't understand a recipe that didn't show success or showed a series of affairs in the previous ministry law. The ministry of capital investment now, and earlier the Ministry of Telecommunications and the Ministry of Urbanism, is the exact same schedule of work, only the distribution of the organisation of the conduct of these businesses is different. What's our previous experience? Previous experience is the work of Minister Raste-Vukosavljevic. Our previous experience is the asphalting performed by the plagues. Previous experience is the Law on building objects that no one is able to apply in Serbia. Our previous experience is legalizing the facilities. So, what's proposed here? Nothing new is proposed, so-called. the protection of national interest. That's not the point of the proposal. The essence of the proposal is different. The point of the proposal is to stay, if we can, another day longer. The point of the proposal is not to say that these two laws don't differ very much. We don't like who's going to rule, not what he's going to do -- that's what we need to say here openly. All these content amendments have a fight against the new government that needs to come. We will endure this, and MPs of the People's Democratic Party will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u849	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Mrs. Milosevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u850	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I see that some of the good manners of the previous assembly have been lost in this assembly. In fact, every lawmaker has always explained why the amendment refuses, and if he accepts it, then it is an integral part of the bill. So, the promoter just refuses, no explanation. I understand why it does not explain, because it is difficult to explain the refusal of amendments that are really extremely important and acceptable, above all for you who need to accept the responsibility of exercising power. But, well, it's your choice, and it's our duty to point that out. So we are talking about an amendment relating to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. So, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is so hard to survive together. Why? The Ministry of Labour and Employment treats completely new and different matter than what it assumes social policy and dealing with social problems. I'll remind you that the Ministry of Social Policy actually worked the most, and for all of us, according to what you said in this assembly, that ministry was getting the most commendation from all of you. You applauded Minister Gordani Matkovic. I'm sorry, you may not have such a frame, but no one else would be more useful than social policy being neglected. So, we propose in Article 2 of point 11 that the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy be divided, so that after point 11), point 11a is added to point 11a, which reads - the Ministry of Social Policy and Combat Affairs, and point 11) is changed and said - the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Small and Medium Enterprises. Why do you need a division like this? It is precisely because the Ministry of Labour and Employment is extremely important in all transition countries, because let's not forget that by 2001, when the previous government entered and took over the mandate to exercise power, we already had 700,000 unemployed, and in these two and a half years, the number of unemployed increased by 240,000 more. The Ministry of Labour and Employment is extremely important during the transition period, when the rights of employees and opportunities for their employment should be defined through a special law. In fact, through small and medium-sized enterprises and affirmation of small and medium-sized enterprises, creating conditions for their opening, the easiest way is to accelerate the process of new employment, the employment of those who lost their jobs during the transition period. On the other hand, unlike this working-age population, we have socially endangered categories that and how they need public and social welfare care. I would remind you that the previous Ministry of Social Affairs has succeeded in working to overcome many of the difficulties encountered during the transition period. We didn't have enough resources to help as much as necessary, but the ministry in its area was the most successful and that most sensitive category of people managed to cover and provide them with as much social level as possible. So now that you're taking over the mandate and responsibility for the category of people in employment and socially endangered categories, now that you're neglecting each other's needs, I'm afraid neither of them will be properly taken care of and neither of them will this country and this society will actually allow themselves to be affirmed through small and medium-sized enterprises, or socially endangered categories through the state and social benefits that belong to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u851	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. The promoter doesn't accept. Here you are, Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u852	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am sorry that the initiative of the entire public of our country has not been accepted to form a new government of the Republic of Serbia to form a ministry of sport and youth. With the huge consensus of all sports alliances in our country, those who win the most significant medals and the most significant medals in the field of sports, and thus represent this country, we have received support Do you have a wish to tell me something? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] You can do it in the hallway, but don't throw it away, be nice. This is not a matter of politics, dear DSS gentlemen, this is a matter of style, attitude and respect for the best product this country has. Let me remind you, when making an omnibus law, gentlemen of the DSS, and transferring jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, your party's Sports Committee supported the formation of the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth and had far more radical solutions to the transfer of jurisdiction than I had as a member of the GSS and a member of the Vojvodina Executive Council, who was in charge of sports and youth. The least you can do at this point is wait and listen to what is likely to mean for you in the Olympic year, and that is a fair and correct performance of our team at the Olympic Games in Athens. These athletes did not deserve you to throw and insult this amendment in the debate on the formation of the Ministry of Sports and Youth. I'll just remind you that there are currently more than 12,000 clubs in our country, 80 alliances in sports and over 100 municipal alliances. For example, only the Football Federation of Serbia has 2,500 clubs with more than 400,000 players of all selections in Serbia's territory. That's the huge sports potential this country has in the field of sports. What is most important and what has led me to submit this amendment is the fact that by stopping the functioning of the federal authorities over 76 border alliances of Serbia-Montenegro is verifying and gathering a large number of representative selections that the Sports Union of Serbia is serving in the domain of financial support of the Republic of Serbia for international performances of all representative selections, both junior and senior. In the field of sports this year, Serbia will be represented in 62 sports, participating in 90 World Cups, 88 World Cups, 120 European Championships. It's not small, sir. It's a lot for this little country. It will participate in 35 European purchases, 40 Balkan championships, 318 international competitions, making an impressive number of 700 international sports events. The most important event this year is the Athens Olympic Games and the strong support of the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee to win the country's Sports and Youth Ministry. I was hoping you'd have a little more respect for those of whom you're expecting medals and for those you'll be welcoming this year, hopefully, with medals on your way back from Athens. One more thing: the sport, I already said, is terribly significant. What we cannot allow, and therefore I thank the Sports Committee for supporting this amendment and this initiative, is for sport to become the privilege of the rich, those who have money. Sport is a constitutional category in many European countries and is listed as one of the basic human rights of every resident and citizen of the state. We also have sports in the Constitution of Serbia, and the Law on Sports states that everyone has the right to play sports. We need to set such conditions that every child and young man has the opportunity to engage in sports, and the situation in our country, which is plagued in the previous decade, does not currently allow anyone who wants to do so, to play sports. This is one way to prove ourselves to be someone who takes care of the population you say we should and that we want to take care of. Once again, I would like to remind you that the most trophy alliance we have, the basketball union of Serbia, has supported this initiative, that the Handball Union has supported this initiative, that the Serbian Federation, which begins tomorrow by the most significant and the biggest tournament this year in Novi Sad, supported this initiative, supported by all other Serbian alliances. You don't have to accept it, it's your responsibility. My responsibility has been met with this because I have submitted an amendment to the existence of the Ministry of Sports and Youth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u853	Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u854	We have very well analyzed the situation that is in sport at this point in Serbia. There are a lot of problems in sports right now. No good sport law has been passed. Some changes and additions were proposed, but this was never found in the congregation procedure. I'm terribly sorry the Sports Authority hasn't done any of these things in the last three years that you've listed here. We are aware of all the problems and the Sports Administration, which will be within the Ministry of Education and Sports, will deal with all the problems that exist within sport and will start to solve them. What this government didn't do, you just taxed all the problems here, that's a question for the government that's leaving.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u855	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u856	Your Honor, I'm afraid you haven't quite understood the amendment I suggested. A lot has been done in sports. I can't talk about what was done in the Republic of Serbia because I was in charge of Vojvodina. I can tell you that in the last three years alone, we have recovered more than 100 sports facilities at the Vojvodina schools, which have been out of use. They couldn't make it because they were in that state. We re-affirmed the Institute of Sports, re-affirmed sports alliances in both Serbia and Vojvodina and did a lot of things. It is true, we need a new law, and before that we need a national programme in the field of sport, which has been completed and done, but unfortunately, it has not arrived on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. Also in the works are the proposals for the sport law. I expect this government to do it. My proposal was, gentlemen, to remind you, to continue what we started in the last three years, but to make it easier for you to give the sport the place it really belongs to, to separate it into the Ministry of Sports and Education. We've initiated that. They would have done, if the government had been in full term, for four years. I suggest you do it. I don't mind if you do this. There's no evil intentions, no politics in this amendment of mine. I am simply representing the interests of Serbia's sports and athletes and I do not want this topic to be debated politically, because sport at this point and never deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u857	Replica, Dejan Mihajlov, and then Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u858	Mrs. Lakicevic, I am very happy with the way and agility that you advocate for the Ministry of Sports, I just wonder why you haven't done this before. Why weren't you there when your Minister of Education, Gašo Knezevic, canceled his gym class a week in elementary schools? Why didn't you answer when it started politicising sports, when all alliances were joined by party leaders who participated in the Serbian government? Remember the Red Star basketball club, who is sitting in its administration today, how it is funded; only a bunch of clubs, football clubs, and volleyball, and the handball and water polo club in Nis, look at the boards of these clubs, you will see that the heads of the Nish are sitting on the boards of all these clubs. So if we're talking about sports, then you should have done a lot more than you've done now. And there is no Serbian and some other sport in Serbia, but there is a sport in Serbia and it cannot be divided into Vojvodina and Serbian, but we must have sport at the level of Serbia as a whole. And you who seek to divide Serbia into a duchy and Serbian sport and who in this way want to tear Serbia and the state apart, we will not let you. If you want us to deal with this serious matter, then we should have dealt with it sooner anyway. We all know that sport has always served, not just with us, that in a certain way the money from some businesses gets through sports, opera, and ends up in some accounts; then we should have regulated it here. Laws were to be passed to regulate sports financing, which would free sports from taxes, where club obligations would be established, in order to run finances, and everything else. Nothing's been done. It serves you honor, as well as the fact that the Ministry of Sports didn't exist then, but you'll see, more will be done. The cover behind the sport -- that's what you're trying to do, and you're trying to represent that the sports success that we've had is your success or the success of the government, and it certainly isn't. That's the fact that athletes didn't want to go to the reception organised by the former authorities, but they refused... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... because they felt that the authorities had turned their backs on them, and they only wanted to manipulate and politicize. It's not the way sports are run and the way you tried to present and open the question of sports is nothing but politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u859	You have no right to a replica, it's a replica on a replica. Please be quiet so I can hear the lady. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u860	I'm extremely surprised by the lack of knowledge of the rules... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to? ) On the Rules of Procedure... (President: You must refer to a member who has been broken. I said when I was going out. Mr. Martian not only can't shake my name and name, but he can't hear me when I say which member I've spoken to. (President: Please learn the Rules of Procedure, then report to the Rules of Procedure. I will not ask, nor do I have a duty to seek the whereabouts of what you say orally, as an insult. Now you didn't listen well, no problem. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: He doesn't have to learn the Rules of Procedure, he deals with sports. Of course. I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Yeah, I'm into sports, and I'm proud of that, unlike some who might be a little bit more involved in sports, because then they might be able to hide behind something. When you talk about who makes which club, you have to have a basic knowledge of the fact that these are NGOs that are registered by a group of people wanting to deal with certain activities in the field of sport. It has nothing to do with the ministry in the field of sports, nor has it anything to do with state intervention in the field of sports. I'm certainly not one of those who interferes with politics. In the field of sports. [[(President: You have now entered the line. Indeed I warn you that I will give you a warning.]] I must remind you that I am a member of the presidency of the Serbia-Montenegro Olympic Committee and someone who has worked in the field of sports for 30 years, unlike you, Mr. Michaelov. (Branislav Ristivojevic, from the place: He cannot replicate. ) Given that there are no elementary conditions for discussion, because members of the DSS parliamentary group are violating the fundamentally decent behaviour, I will interrupt this exhibit, and I will continue to follow the next point of the amendment, when I come to order, and I hope that by then you will behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u861	I ask the MPs, including Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic, and everyone who intends to abuse the rules of procedure, in the way she did, as I did yesterday, the next MP to be wronged about the Rules of Procedure without prior notice will receive an official notice. Please take care of that. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u862	I don't want to get involved in these disputes that are within former coalition partners. I hope they're old, but it never means they won't be future. In any case, the SPS also stressed its fondness for the government of Serbia to be a ministry dedicated to youth and sport through the presentation of our MP Jovan Todorovic. There's no question about our support. However, I am sorry that Mrs. Snow White Stojačić-Lakicevic, I do not think she was I'm sorry. [[Heading voices: Lakicevic-Stojačić.]] The text of the amendment I have says Stojačić-Lakicevic. I'm sorry. This is more about gender equality than amendments. Let's get back to the subject. So, I am sorry that Mrs Stojačić-Lakicevic, or Lakicevic-Stojacic, was not here in January 2001, because she would then agree with the SPS parliamentary group's views. I would like to remind you that the SPS then proposed to keep the Youth and Sports Ministry, and the DS parliamentary group, or the former DOS, was just saying the opposite of what they're saying today. And then there were proposals and the Olympic Committee, and national sports alliances and clubs, but the proposal was not accepted. It wasn't the DSS who ever had a sports ministry in her government, it was the last government run by the SPS, where it was the Youth and Sports Ministry. Don't remember now, don't attribute something to yourself that might get a political point.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u863	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u864	Dear President, honourable MPs, I will not only speak on behalf of the DS MPs, but I will speak on behalf of the Sports Union of Serbia, because I am a member of the board of directors of this alliance, which is the most numerous association in Serbia, an association containing 80 sports organisations. All these sports organisations, including athletes, expect this assembly to help them and to make a decision today that we can establish a Ministry of Sport of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that Serbian athletes are the country's biggest ambassadors, that Serbian athletes are our biggest product and that in this Olympic year they deserve to have their own ministry. Just because the Democratic Party hasn't made a decision in the previous period to have a sports ministry doesn't mean that this new government that needs to be formed has to make a mistake that we've made. So we need to learn from other people's mistakes, and I expect this assembly to have more understanding for Serbian athletes. I will remind you that many clubs in Serbia are in difficult situations, that everyone expects a new law on sport that will enable privatisation and allow these clubs to survive this really difficult time and that our clubs will be able to fight all other clubs in Europe evenly for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u865	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Here you go, Mrs. Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u866	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as proposed by the amendment, I have tried once again, I hope not to fail, to ask you together to consider what is under the company of rationalization, savings and efficiency in work - which, of course, you have the right to, which is one motive that should be applicable and should be the starting point for a new government. But I don't think it's enough as an argument -- in Article 2 point 14, the Ministry of Culture proposes, so the part of the previous title is deleted -- the Ministry of Culture and Media. I don't think that too many words should be spent on what information is in every country, and what is, therefore, information in the country of Serbia and before and now, and what will happen. It is one act that has all those attributes that should have the right democratic Serbia as we hopefully all build together. We know that we have invested a great deal of energy over the past few years, before 2000, wanting to arrange this particular area, at least to be like in normal European countries, and we know the consequences of all of this unfortunate area over the last decade. In the domain of information, as we will later see when the other members are analysed, therefore, in the domain of the very activity of this ministry, you haven't essentially changed much in the proposal; practically, some of the actions are narrowed down, and we'll talk about it later, but I simply can't accept that there was no place at the Ministry of Culture at the beginning. I even believe that many arguments can be found, very well-founded, to represent the idea that in countries like our own separate Ministry of Information, but I think this solution, to be united in the Ministry of Culture and Media, as it has been in the past three years, can satisfy at least the basic needs. So, in this area, in the area of media and information, in the past period, significant and significant legal acts have been launched for the mandates of the past government, which have begun to regulate this area, of which unfortunately very often we have much more damage than that area as one such engine in general democratisation in our country. So our proposal is and I hope that we will interest you to at least reconsider once again whether it is really just to streamline the summation, i.e. erasure from the title in Article 2. The Ministry of Culture and Media and bringing down only to the Ministry of Culture. With all the arguments I can assume, that the area of culture is extremely widespread, our proposal is very simple, namely, in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 14) it is changed and it is said: "The Ministry of Culture and Media", and I ask you once again and I urge you to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u867	The word is Mr. Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u868	When it comes to this dilemma, I think we should listen to the voice of the profession, actually, the voice of the artists who spoke to all the parliamentary groups. The SPO and New Serbia parliamentary group received a letter from the Association of Fine Artists, Association of Fine Arts and Designers, Association of Drama Writers, the Alliance of Drama Artists of Serbia, from the Association of Fine Arts Artists of Serbia, the Association of Fine Arts and Applied Artists and Designers, the Association of Drama Writers, all the way to the Association of Writers of Serbia, who are seeking to separate the areas of media and culture and to form only the Ministry of Culture, because they believe that in this period the transition of culture is the most significant segment of the protection of the identities of the state and peoples living in it. So let us follow the recommendation of people who do so and who know the area best. We don't really need a ministry called the Ministry of Culture and Media anymore, which was involved in the persecution of journalists, in their arrest, in firing them from work, in banning the media. It's a dark period we have to leave behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u869	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Replica, there is no, which means now clarification, don't really, no replicas, no violations of the Rules of Procedure, so a colleague made his point on this amendment. Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u870	On the occasion of this amendment and whether the media should be within the responsibility of this ministry, I would like to ask the motionary. I don't see anywhere written where the Communications Bureau belongs in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that something that's within the Ministry, something that's within the framework of some department, an office, or the Ministry of the Interior? Since it's obvious that some of the members of that bureau have been dealing with some other affairs that aren't just about to inform me, I'm just getting a grip on whether you've provided for the communications bureau in your work plan and who's going to set up and who's going to control that bureau and if that bureau has any connection with the ministry?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u871	Mr. Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u872	To answer to Mr Dacic: The communications bureau was not founded by the Ministry Act, but by the Government of Serbia's regulation, as well as by a number of agencies that were not established by law, but had intertwined competences with a number of ministries. We were initiating proceedings, and we felt that both the Bureau and the many agencies established by the General Secretariat Regulation were set up against the constitution. As far as the Bureau is concerned, when a regulation on the government's internal organisation is adopted, the communications bureau in the form in which it exists today will be abolished. As far as the culture ministry is concerned, in the bill, it is only responsible for the information portfolio, the competent ministry that should respect the law. As you noted in the proposal for this law, it is not taken into account that any ministry is in the future dealing with the assessment of the situation and the analytical evaluation of what is happening in the media, as was the previous Ministry Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u873	National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept the amendment. The word is Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u874	Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled this amendment with the intention of our society overcoming a technological problem that has been facing for years. In fact, it is known that the transition societies owe, in fact, one part of their lagging behind, to this very technological lack, to the insufficient internetisation of society, to a insufficiently well-established telecommunications infrastructure, and, which is also a major problem, citizens' unpreparedness to use new technologies, primarily communication and information technologies. When the Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposes to form a Ministry of Information Society, we are only on the trail of all those societies that have caught contact with a world that is lightningd or very fast. It's not just about telecommunications, the Internet or information. It is about the fact that new values of new technologies must be set in our society, that our citizens must master the skills of using new technologies that could allow them a much greater quality of individual life, new knowledge in the domain of treatment or self-treatment, contact with the state and state infrastructure. To remind you, we as a country have signed a plan for an information society in Southeast Europe. It is our international obligation, because exactly Southeast Europe has been treated by the old continent as a black hole in the information sense. Our proposal is that one ministry of this type simply revives a series of social activities related to the use of information technologies, promotes the basic value of a society like this and that we finally catch up with the time in which we exist. A major step has been made over the past three years in relation to the situation found in 2000. We then had the presence of fixed telephony at 23% of Serbia's population. So many Serbian residents had a fixed phone, and today almost 50%. Mobile telephony has improved dramatically and around 60% of citizens today have a mobile phone in Serbia, unlike some 24% at the time. The big problem is not using the Internet; we were one of the three countries in Europe at the very bottom of the scale in insufficient Internet use. In fact, a whole set of these technologies is going in the direction of Internetization and will unite all telecommunications, so all of those telecommunications and technology functions that enable each individual citizen to do much more serious business, much better contact with their own state, a much higher level of information exchange than he has so far. It is precisely to ensure the technological and economic development of society that we need to have one such ministry. This ministry could be treated as an economic ministry, not just a communications and information ministry. I am finishing my explanation for why an amendment like this should be adopted and that the proposing changes the current structure of the ministry with one simple data. It is the societies that have advanced to internetization, in mastering new technologies, the communication technologies of their own citizens have had high economic growth. Those companies that did not have enough good communication and the use of new technologies were, in fact, sealed or limited in economic growth by insufficient technologicalisation of society. This is our proposal for a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u875	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant's representative does not accept this amendment. Ljiljana Nestorović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u876	Dear fellow MPs, although I am not a lawyer, I know that in most countries there are issues relating to the work of the organisation and the work of the ministries of issues that are directly in the government's jurisdiction. So, the government regulates these issues by its own regulations or other organisational regulations, and they are, as a rule, never put before parliament. On the one hand, when things are set up like that, it gives the government more free hands, and on the other hand increases its responsibility, and in principle we can't have anything against such an organization of things. With us, however, as you know, this is not the case, and the questions of the work of the organisation of the administration's body are dealt with by this parliament. So these issues are in our jurisdiction, not in the government's jurisdiction, and I have given myself the right to submit on behalf of the Social Democratic Party MPs several amendments to the proposals we consider controversial and can be corrected. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 6 is in line with the amendment that we have submitted to Article 22, and I am going to explain to this effect both amendments, so that I don't waste your time and that we end this agenda as soon as possible. Amendments to Article 6 and Article 22 concern relations between the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Republic Secretariat for Law. As we have recognised here, the promoter essentially wants to transfer some of the competences that have so far been within the Republic Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government to the Republic Secretariat of Legislative Affairs, and those related to the organisation and work of ministries and other special organisations. I must point out that the preparation of these regulations has always been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration, no matter what it was called, and we do not see any visible argument that would contribute to the fact that the Republic Secretariat of Law has both human and professional potentials, and that the experience potentials that make it competent, or more competent than the competent ministry. For this reason, we advocate that these tasks of determining the organisation and work of the ministries and other bodies of the administration remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, not to go into the jurisdiction of the Republic Secretariat for Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u877	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u878	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Dejan Mihajlov throws - a MP, so he learned something good for the last three years by correcting the President of the Assembly. It did remain discriminatory, but only as proof that in the language we speak happens or does not happen, in linguistic terms, things that happen in society. Our commitment to speak -- a folk MP -- has always been a commitment to life, not paper rules in language. I'll be glad to bring in the right form for the function performed by the female MP, but as DS, we'll always have a commitment to turn to life, not paper. So, the more women into the MPs. The amendment to which it is proposed to be deleted in Article 7 in Article 1, so consistently through a member, the word "smartism", with the intention of the forest management, or forestry, being in the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the management of natural resources. This amendment proves to you that there are topics that have nothing to do with political commitment and political belongings. So, in the government that I supported and proud of, the results she had, for two years, the former agriculture minister was supposed to accept the European model for the forests to be at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. And MP Tomislav Nikolic, staying with us for three years, realized that positive communication brings results, unlike negative and aggressive; non-bal communication from earlier. So, proof that the government we supported as a party, whose results we are proud of, took two years to see that it was a European rule. Forests are not a place in agriculture, not in any European country, nor in Serbia. Forests as a national resource, along with the coming, I hope speedily, the adoption of forest laws, are a resource that must be dealt with by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the management of natural resources. When it comes to this amendment, please, before you decide to be in favour or against, we consult the profession. They now have a chance to compare. I think this is the only ministry where they already have a chance to compare, because half of the mandates of the previous government were under the administration of the Ministry and Minister of Agriculture within the same ministry that was formed on 25 January 2001, and then, from two attempts, they were in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The Republic of Serbia has an extraordinary profession in forestry, has exceptional experts who find work very easily in both countries in the region and in Western Europe, but very rarely leave Serbia. So, I ask you to consult the profession and, before you decide to give priority to the political stance, remember that this amendment also had a problem with the political coalition that I supported, and apparently it has a problem with the political coalition that I will be an opposition to. See that it is a standard of discipline for you, and not for us the messengers of the people and the messengers of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u879	Thank you to the People's Parliament. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. He doesn't accept the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u880	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. Our country has an objective chance at developing agriculture. In my opinion, one of the greatest odds is the development of those activities, those branches of agriculture that have a high degree of finalisation of their products. One of those is exactly what I suggested, which is wine production. I think it's important that here, as it stands in the proposal of this amendment, although it is known that wine belongs to alcoholic beverages, to be isolated and to stand out as proposed -- wine and other alcoholic beverages. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u881	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. He doesn't accept the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u882	As I said by explaining the amendment to Article 2, the essence shown by the current name of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation is that through this ministry has been the most important process that has taken place in Serbia for the past three years. In essence, the responsibilities of this ministry are more or less identical, so the existing Ministry of Economy and Privatisation with the proposed responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy, except for two indents, so - proposing measures to encourage investment investments and encourage the development of the economy and underdeveloped areas. In a situation where the executive power is set up so that there is a Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Waterland, the Ministry of Capital Investment, as proposed by this law, which contains in itself the competences of the current telecommunications and construction and urban ministries, where there is a Ministry of Energy which includes also mining, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, the responsibilities of this ministry are, in fact, taken down to the Ministry of Industry. So either this ministry should call the industry ministry, or, if this is, as it is so far, when the government wanted the privatisation to be underlined in such a way as to place this nomination in the name of the ministry, there is no reason to change the name that is now current. Basically, the Democratic Party believes it is always good to express its political intentions in a clear way. We thought today that privatisation, however painful, is, however dissatisfied people are with the effects of privatisation, is a necessary process. The government, which will be elected in a matter of days, cannot depart from any fundamental position in privatisation because it is the only way for the state to continue its approach to the structure known to modern and civilised states. It's not a question of your choice, or of any person or individual choice. It is a matter of bringing the country into a state where it can give its citizens conditions for a normal life. That's why you need to be honest and completely clear in your intentions. The Democratic Party has been so far, and as I said, we'll see when it's three or four months ago how you'll deal with your instincts. Mr. President, I will no longer explain my amendments because of the transitional and final provisions, and I thank the Members of Parliament for their patience and understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u883	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u884	The amendment to Article 8 shall, in fact, apply to the amendment submitted at point 11 of Article 2. So, if we agree to separate the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, then, accordingly, this amendment from the Ministry of Economy needs to be allocated to the part relating, i.e. the provisions relating to small and medium-sized enterprises. I say again, if the first amendment I have proposed is accepted, then these points of amendment relating to the provisions of the law further, means amendments from 2 to 7, refer to the same area, so I wouldn't explain them either.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u885	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetislav Krstic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u886	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 9 that regulates the work of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. It seems to us that this article, which was proposed in the law, is prescribed from the previous law, and it's quite unhumble, I would say inexplicable. That is why we have proposed an amendment to add what is missing in this Article 9 and what is in this Article 9th excess is cast out. For example, this article mentions, I will read: "The Ministry of Mining and Energy does the tasks of the state administration relating to: mining; energy; the energy balance of the Republic of Serbia; the oil and gas economy", and no mention of electricity. No matter what there is a whole body of laws that determines this area of mining and energy in one more general way, more precise, more detailed, however, this law, as a basic law, would have to contain such a major area of importance as electricity. In that sense, we actually proposed a new amendment, a new text, but also to insert electricity. On the other hand, it is further listed here, as one of the ministry's competences -- safe pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons. Please, it's not the Ministry of Mining and Energy's jurisdiction just for pipeline transport. It also has other modes of transport: river transport, road transport, tank wagons and so on. Therefore, it is not good to have only pipeline transport in this article. That's why, in our amendment, we suggest that the word "tube" be cast out. This would mean all other modes of transport. Also, there's an extra section here that says "nuclear power plants whose purpose is to produce electricity, or heat". Please, when you say "energy plant", then it is understood that this facility is used to produce energy. Therefore, if nuclear power plants are referred to, it is not necessary to explain as here what it says - "the purpose of which is the production of electricity, i.e. heat". That is why we have proposed that these two sentences be deleted in the amendment. So that's about to make a little joke, like you'd say, under the Sava Bridge, there's a river of Sava. I suppose it's understood that under the Sava Bridge, the Sava River flows. There are other things, say, in the disposal of radioactive materials, it says, "in these objects." The disposal of radioactive materials is done not only in these facilities, it means in nuclear and energy plants, it is done throughout a number of other places. Therefore, why enter into this very important member of such a restriction, so that it is known that the disposal of radioactive materials is done not in buildings where the production of energy is done, but carried out in some special places. So, since I come from the field of energy and we're talking about the matter I've been dealing with for many years, the intention was just to supplement this member (which, I repeat, is prescribed) in a quality way. I'm surprised that the Industry Committee has not been convened, which deals with this problem, because the Justice and Administration Committee is still not competent enough for such technical matters. So I'm asking the Proposer to consider this SPS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u887	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u888	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 10, which is in line with the amendment to Article 2 and concerns the division of responsibility in the proposed capital investment ministry. We propose the establishment of two special ministries, in the light of the workaround of the activities to be carried out by the Ministry of Capital Investments. To recapitulate, the partial activity of capital investments will refer to full traffic, then mail, telecommunications and everything defined by Article 10(1) of the proposed ministry law. In addition, the task of the capital investment ministry will be, among other things, the affairs of the state administration relating to the building, i.e. urbanism. So two very large ministries with very large jobs, responsibilities and a proposal from the DS parliamentary group are now being joined to separate this proposed ministry into two special ministries, in order to achieve the objective of efficiency. What is it that will await the future ministry of capital investment, or future minister? First, it is necessary to settle ownership relations not only in Telekom but also to resolve a dispute that exists between the state of Serbia and the private owner in Mobtel. Then, it is necessary to define a telecommunication development strategy, which means solving a positive or negative dilemma relating to the so-called "Telecommunication Development Strategy". Third GSM operator. Then, he expects a job in restructuring, if not the biggest, and then certainly the most complicated public enterprise, which is rail-transport traffic. I will remind you that in rail-transport traffic today, more than 30,000 people are working and that restructuring, more specifically a comprehensive restructuring programme, will require, among other things, not only the separation of rail-transport traffic to the infrastructure part and the part relating to the use of infrastructure, but also the effective implementation of the social programme for the very large economic and technological surplus that exists in this company. Then, a whole series of projects that will be based on either direct investment, whether on public budget investments, or on concession investments related to the development of road and rail infrastructures. Then, the section related to the Ministry of Urbanism and Building. I will remind you that the task will be to settle until the end of the property book that falls under the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction. I'll remind you that, thanks to the privatisation process that has just begun, this job has been solved in about 2,000 social enterprises. I can say that this job is only done with about 40% success. So, one huge part of this job is waiting for the future ministry, or minister. Not to mention the need to adopt long-term plans that will be part of the Ministry of Urbanism, not to talk about defining the development strategy of the construction industry in Serbia, using the benefits that can be gained from the engagement of our construction companies in the reconstruction of Iraq. Then, the part relating to the privatisation of the construction industry, where, by definition, the resolution minister will be involved. I purposely listed everything, and this is only in a rough sense all the obligations of the future minister of capital investment, to assess for yourself whether one ministry can do so. The DS parliamentary group believes it is much more effective to keep an existing solution, which is that there are two ministries, or, among other things, the intensity and the previous government, enter the division of this proposed ministry into three ministries: one is the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism, the second is the Ministry of Transport and is the third is the Ministry of Telecommunications. I say once again, this is not our intensity to enter into the powers of the future minister, i.e. the ministry, but a well-intentioned suggestion, so that the work of the Government, in the section of the above-mentioned responsibilities at the Ministry of Capital Investment, is far more effective. Finally, we do not understand why the term "capital investment" and why these two ministries in capital investment, not for example. The energy and mining ministry, as it is known that capital investments are precisely in the energy and mining sectors far greater than investments in the transport, telecommunications, construction and urban sectors. (President: Mr. Vlahovic, time. ) If co-ordination in capital investments is wanted, we remain in the position that it is much better to coordinate from the vice-presidential post, and that three ministries, because of their operationality, operate independently, because we believe that these savings achieved by the merger of the two ministries are certainly not enough to justify a future stalemate in labour efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u889	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u890	I want to thank the Democrats. They've been taking care of the ministry all day. Don't worry too much. I see that the JAT people have been coming from the ZTP for days, they've been looking for something, let's have a general alert at that Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications. Why do you care so much, some of your men, assistants and deputies, have been haunting each other all day, looking for meetings? The whole crew upstairs is waiting, justifying themselves, bringing in some papers. If Rushetta was doing well, if this other minister of yours was doing well, if the Turks don't have a share, if it's all right, sleep tight, don't worry about what we're going to do, and we'll try to do good, as much as we can. So here was the idea of uniting something and really starting with some investments, of following it with certain project documentation, that there were no brakes that were so far. You haven't prepared a single project in three years. Don't talk about Corridor 10 now, the Belgrade-Subotic highway, which is being built. You don't have any paperwork, no paper, everything's done to the wild. We shall see. So don't worry too much, you handle the paperwork, what you've been doing and don't be afraid of anything, sleep tight, if everything was in order. But I do feel that there's something going on with you and there's some dangerous problems. Therefore, I promise you that this ministry will do everything that the government can and will do, as much as it can. If we're bad, you'll get rid of us, of course. But give us a chance. We've suffered you for three years without any results. You know that for three years you've designed one highway and you've moved away so far that the paperwork may have been done two or three sides. So don't worry, calm down. You'll have your chance. I see here some former ministers are discussing. They did what they knew. I didn't criticise Boris when he was Minister of Telecommunications, and as he worked, it was obvious. So don't worry too much, sleep well, if you've been doing well. If you're not, for God's sake, there's gonna be a lot of things. Let the new government work, give her some time, and we'll see that it all comes together. You're getting ready to show something. Why did you activate yourself these days? Yesterday you're selling something in the JAT, renting, like the end of the world in two or three days. Let it all go its own way, don't worry too much. I hope this ministry works as well as it can. If it's bad, it's better to keep it shorter, share it, do whatever you want, but order has to be introduced once. He won't be able to do this anymore. You tried a robbery with some legalization, and it didn't work. Say any of the projects you've done in three years' time in these three ministries, as you say, and I take off your hat, say hello, and say, "Alal religion." You didn't do anything. So no matter what happens, there will be one shift forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u891	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 10a after Article 10a. National MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new article 10a be added after article 10a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. He doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Nestorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u892	Dear colleagues, very short. As in the previous case, although I am invited to explain the reason why we have submitted the amendment to Article 11, I will try to sublime the explanations related to the amendments submitted to Articles 21 and 28, because all three amendments relate essentially to the position and role of the Republic of the Reserve Directorate. As is known, this Republic Stock Reserve Directorate is the authority of the administration within one ministry, the Ministry of Trade, and we believe it is necessary to provide it with more appropriate status and we propose that it be organised as a special organisation, because we believe that there are more reasons for this, some of which are current and acute, and others concern the perspective, i.e. the idea that the transformation of the Authority should also follow the transition of the entire society. So when I talk about the reasons that I listed as actual or acute, I'm going to point out the following. First of all, the Stock Reserve Directorate operates with very diverse goods, which is fundamentally of strategic importance and concerns more areas of life, for which more ministries are responsible. Thus, only illustrations work, the Directorate works with goods that are important for different ministries, the type of energy ministry, telecommunications, industry, economy, so it works with food goods, industrial products, oil, but also with goods of special purpose, for the purposes of electricity, health, electronic media, etc. So, this diversity and complexity of jobs and the need for specialization, and often with urgent market response, assures us that the directorate needs to be defined as a special organisation, not as a management body within the Trade Ministry. And when I talk about the reasons for the perspective, very briefly, I think that the directorate of whose organization, the conduct, are a number of characteristics which are characteristics of lagging back in the old days, should be transformed. But I'm saying, I'm not going to be long, because this topic is probably going to be the subject of a change not only of this but of other laws, so I want to end up with the position of the Stock Reserve Directorate as a special organisation being far more appropriate, but the one that has been set up so far, and which is being retained by the Proposer. I urge you to adopt these amendments and change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u893	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Gordana Comic and Milena Milosevic have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The Proposer accepts this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u894	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Parliament, the amendment that my colleague Beretic and I have submitted to Article 16 is essentially related to the amendment to Article 2 relating to the enlargement of the Ministry of Culture and Media, which we believe is perfectly normal, because this way we would completely change the description of the work, and the media would get the attention they deserve in our republic. Since we are also awaiting the application of the Law on Broadcasting, monitoring the work of local media, it is something that is quite normal and we think it is necessary to follow it all the way. What we have defined with this amendment is the precision of an existing member, except for a change in the name of the ministry that is now being named the Ministry of Culture and Media. We felt it was necessary for this ministry to also monitor the informational activity of the media domain, but also for it to deal with research and analytical evaluation of the situation in the media, which is again something that we find extremely necessary. The promoter did not accept this amendment of ours, but we are surprised that he retained certain parts that, when the Ministry Act was changed, he attacked and challenged in the last term, and I will mention them. So, they challenged the work of foreign information institutions, and they kept them in the article, that is, the bill; they challenged research, or co-operation with foreign media, kept them, I see no reason why this would not exist, and why this ministry would not have one broader range of jobs, as Mrs Beretic and I have said in this article, so I really ask you to accept this amendment accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u895	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 17a be added after article 17. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Jevtic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter doesn't accept. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new member of 19a be added after article 19a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 19a be added after article 19a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetislav Krstic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that this amendment be adopted, which was agreed by the proposer, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u896	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the SPS Group has tabled an amendment to this member in order... (Glasses from the O.R.: He's accepted. ) We know that it has been accepted, but here it is about one phenomenon, here tomorrow will be a month as we work in this assembly and we have noticed that in many proposals of laws, documents, amendments, etc. very often they use words that are not Serbian. We have a Serbian word for it, not one, but a few. I took here only at the end as one example, the word "harmonization", firstly, does not match the importance of a member here. Secondly, it is a word that is not of Serbian origin. There are several words in Serbian that could have been in place of that foreign word. That's the word - the alignment, which has been accepted here, then the word alignment, etc. We think that we should work (and as regards the professional services of the Assembly and in general) on lecturing all the laws, amendments and documentation that comes to the MPs, the government or goes public, in the sense that words of foreign origin are thrown out where we have an adequate Serbian word. I think it's perfectly normal and that's exactly why this amendment was submitted. I thank you for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u897	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Someone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Someone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u898	This amendment is more technical. The Law on Sport in Article 43 provides for the establishment of the Republic Sports Institute and the Article 44 states its activities. I therefore believe that in Article 21 under point 8), under special organisations, it should stand - the Republic Institute for Sports, as a very important institution in the field of sport where big money has indeed been invested in recent years by a donation, above all by the International Olympic Committee; it would thus create conditions for its budget financing to be independent from the Ministry of Sports. I suggest you think of this amendment as a technical remark, not to politicize it, but simply to correct what it once was a failure now and allow the uninterrupted functioning of the Republic Sports Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u899	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Someone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Someone else? No, I don't. ) National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 28a be added after article 28a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Someone else? No, I don't. ) National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 28a be added after article 28a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I would like to ask the Proposer to make his statement on this amendment. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u900	I just want to point out a few reasons why it would be very important and very good to separate the Ministry of Education from the Ministry of Sports and Youth, which is the importance that comes from several international documents that have been brought in over the last two years. The reform of education meant and accepted these arguments, and thus, in the context of the physical education reform, gave a special place to this subject and called it – physical and health education, assessing that physical activity is something that is very important for the development of a country. Physical activity patterns, as well as the overall lifestyle, adopted during childhood and adolescence tend to be maintained in the mature age. Thus, there is a recommendation of a round table of UNESCO held in Paris under the auspices of the United Nations to allow children 60 minutes of moderate physical activity during each day of the week. Additional surveys by the Union suggest that physical activity is important for the economic situation of a country, because one dollar invested in sport saves 3.2 health dollars, which is for one nation, such as ours, a serious indicator that this area needs to be dealt with in particular. The results of the reviews carried out over the past two years suggest that there is no difference in deformities between children living in the city (we have done tests on children in Belgrade and children in Novi Sad) and children living in the country. The results are even worse for children in the country, because there are no basic, elemental conditions to deal with physical activity properly. The World Health Organization has declared its obesity epidemics for the 21st century, and too much weight has been officially declared a disease. Unfortunately, Serbia is in a very high place by the number of people suffering from obesity, even every third person in our country has obesity problems. There, of course, is an inadequate diet, but also physical inactivity. Systematic examinations of future champions have revealed that every other child in Serbia has a wrong spine, and nearly 50% of children have foot deformities, which is enough to suggest that in their life development and in their ageing life, there is an imminent increase in going to sick leave early retirement, which really leaves a huge impact on the state's economic system. What I didn't comment on and didn't talk about, because I didn't happen to be in the O.R. -- it's very important to establish a ministry that would include issues for young people as well. National policy and youth strategy in the Republic of Serbia is something that must definitely be made, for it is one of the items that is predicted that a country could seek accession to the European Union. By establishing the Ministry of Sports and Youth, the Republic of Serbia would show a clear and long-term commitment to creating social, educational, cultural, material and other political conditions for lasting well-being, i.e. for their active and full participation in society. I must say that on 20 February of this year, the Youth Initiative from Serbia, which gathers a large number of NGOs, will list just some: Young Researchers of Serbia, the Union of Scouts, the Youth of the Yugoslav Association for the Fight Against Sides, the Youth Information Centre, the Student Union of Serbia, the Youth Council of Serbia, the Youth Council of Vojvodina and the Civil Youth Initiative, sent a letter to the president of the DSS and the mandater, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, as an appeal for the formation of a state body for young people. The appeal says that state-run, among other things, and social care for young people, the co-operation of official bodies with youth organisations and the provision of their participation in decision-making processes in matters of importance for young people, such as social protection of children and youth, employment policy, education system, rights and freedoms of citizens, the protection of youth health, the preservation of a healthy environment and others, are the assets of a democratic and developed society to which we lay all rights. With this appeal, Mr Kostunica was accompanied by a Declaration on the co-operation of youth national organisations in Serbia, signed by all members of the Youth Initiative in Serbia. The answer has not arrived, and it seems that the appeal will not be infuriated by the adoption of amendments and the formation of the Ministry of Sports and Youth. I suggest you think carefully before you decide how you will vote for these amendments, because the area of sport, and also as a youth area, is something that is terribly important and important for the country of Serbia, as long as you know that even the United Nations has their own working bodies, in which unfortunately our country does not participate. Because we are one of the few countries in the world that has no name in any state institution - youth, and there are also no laws concerning the question of youth.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u901	Anybody else answer for a word? He's got the word "proposer."
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u902	Of course, we pay special attention to young people, young people, and we are aware of all the problems young people face in the Republic of Serbia. The diaspora ministry will try to build bridges with a large number of young people who have gone beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. What we will do within the Ministry of Education under the Department of Sports, within all other ministries, special attention and many benefits that young people must be given to remain in the Republic of Serbia. We will launch special funds that will open up the possibility of lending and buying apartments and many other measures that will pay special attention to young people in the Republic of Serbia. We don't think forming a sports and youth ministry is going to solve these problems automatically. These problems can be solved within the framework of existing institutions, if there is a will to solve these problems. The will in this moment exists. We'll prepare legal projects to regulate all youth rights and we don't think the Youth and Sports Ministry is necessary to solve problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u903	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic submitted to the 29th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 30th Amendment were submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic submitted to the 31st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The legislator has made a correction to the position of Article 1 (32) after point 6 of the Law. The proposal for a law on ministries adds point 7 and reads "Republic Institute for Information and the Internet". This is about the technical correction you got. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 32a be added after article 32a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter does not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. He doesn't accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. He doesn't accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm asking the Proposer to plead. He doesn't accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since it is now 15 minutes until the end of the session, I do not know how long it will take us to complete this item of the agenda, so I suggest we make a decision to extend the work until the end of this agenda, the only item of the agenda. Please first determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Please make a statement about this proposal. For 120, no one with abstentions voted six out of 126 MPs. I find the proposal accepted. Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does MP Radojko Obradovic want to give the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on the sole agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby determine today, February 26, 2004, as a voting day, which means immediately. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on ministries, with a correction, in principle. For 128, there are 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that, in writing, amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Slobodan Lalović to Article 9 and Article 14(2); Nikola Novakovic to Article 4(1); Dragan Rafaelovic to Article 7(1) and Article 25. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129 of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129 of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129 of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic - Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 123, one of 128 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote four out of 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote five out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For ten, against 114, with five abstentions, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, four of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Brance Stojanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 121, two abstentions, four of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, three of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, they did not vote two out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetislav Krstic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 107, two abstentions, of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 128, he did not vote one out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 10a be added after Article 10a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 111, with seven abstentions, of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Gordana Comic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the legislator considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, v. 127, abstention one, of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gordana Comic and Milena Milosevic have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of the 13a be added after article 13. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote one out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 126, three abstentions, 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Anita Beretic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The promoter has accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 110, against six, abstentioned 11, three of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, a abstentioned one, two of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 17a be added after article 17. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Jevtic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, two abstentions, two out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new member of 19a be added after article 19a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 119 abstentions five, two of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-26-0.u904	National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 19a be added after article 19a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, with three abstentions, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Svetislav Krstic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that this amendment be adopted, which was agreed by the proposer, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 130 of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, two abstentions, two of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 109 abstentions 10, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendments are accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 117 abstentions 8, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendments are accepted. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12 against 105, 10 abstentions, three of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendments are accepted. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, with three abstentions, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendments are accepted. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 28a be added after article 28a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 112, abstentions 7, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendments are accepted. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 28a be added after article 28a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 120, abstentions five, of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 124, three abstentions, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendments are accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MPs Anita Beretic and Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, abstention one of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 128, he did not vote one out of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, they did not vote two out of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. Members of the 29th amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, they did not vote two out of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. Members of the 30th amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, out of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 116, abstentions of 10, of 130 MPs. I find that the amendments are accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, two abstentions, of 130 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, out of 130 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find this amendment not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MPs Godana Comic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find this amendment not accepted. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 32a be added after article 32a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, abstention three, not three, out of 130 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, abstention one of 130 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Vlahovic and Dusan Petrovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, one of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find this amendment not accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were submitted by MPs Godana Comic and Milena Milosevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, two abstentions, of 130 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 118, with seven abstentions, of 130 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 123, with five abstentions, one of 130 MPs did not vote. I find this amendment not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on ministries, with corrections, in general. For 130 of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on ministries. Having considered the single agenda item of this session and deciding on it, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. Thank you.
