ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Dusan Petrovic, Cedomir Petkovic, Marko Djurisic, Vladan Vukicevic, Velimir Stanojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, which was called upon by 84 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 10th Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. Since applicants requested to hold the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, writtenly, informed them that they were withdrawing the proposal to consider at this session the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act (point 1.), Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Law on Moving Things entered in the Register (paragraph 2) and a proposal for a decision appointing the president and members of the Committee on Reconstruction and Development of the Sremski Karlovac (paragraph 5(b)) submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the session of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004 the following Agenda was set out: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio Diffusion Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; 3. Selection and appointment of the president and members of the bodies and bodies established by law: a) Proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Securities Commission, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, b) Selection of members of the Republic Committee to resolve the conflict of interest from the list submitted by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Since the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion and the Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and the members of the Securities Commission are to be considered by an urgent procedure, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit reports during the course of the session. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Radio-Difusion Law You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zarko Obradović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Aleksandar Lazarevic and the Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. The amendments to be submitted until the opening of the original search will be sent to you during the session. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours. This time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 38 minutes, 24 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour; the Democratic Party – the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic – 44 minutes, 24 seconds; G17 plus - 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Serbian Renewal Movement – New Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three MPs of the Social Democratic Party and three NDS MPs, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Dragan Koadinovic, the culture minister, want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6341	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted, as you know, the Law on Radio-Difusion in July 2002. After more than two years of the law, we propose amendments and additions for the following reasons. That law established the Republic of Broadcasting Agency as an independent and independent organisation, which exercises public authority under this law. The Agency's body is a Council, which has nine members, which are elected under the procedure laid down in the Radio-Difusion Act. However, during the first election of the Council, in the election of two of the nine members, as you know, it is not until the end respected by the Law, which led to a blockade in the work of the Council and the inability to apply much of the provisions of the Radio-Difusion Act. In order to overcome problems related to the work of the Council, for members of the Council to be elected in a more rational and efficient manner, as well as for the Assembly to settle the tasks that its professional bodies can also do, amendments to Articles 23 and 24 are proposed. The law. The provisions of the Radio-Difusion Act relating to the selection and resolution of members of the Agency's Council should be brought into line, in particular Article 23, paragraph 10 and Article 12 and Article 31(4). Certain provisions of this law, Article 25(1), and Article 78(6), Article 87(4) and Article 96, paragraph 9, should be brought into line with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro. For these reasons, amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act have been proposed, which are, basically, the following. In order to make future operational, rational, more economical and professional selections of members of the Radio-Diffusion Council, it is proposed to amend the structure of authorised radio-distributive board members. Instead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Council of Vojvodina, it was proposed that the mandated proposer be the committee responsible for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, member of the 1st Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. In order to disbursement the Assembly from the tasks it can and should carry out its professional bodies, it is proposed that, instead of the National Assembly, the authorising officer submits a list of candidates for members of the Council to the relevant Assembly Committee, as well as that the committee responsible, rather than the Assembly, return the proposal to the authorising officer, if the proposal is contrary to the provisions of this law, therefore, Article 2(1) and 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. It is also proposed that the competent committee of the Assembly, instead of the Assembly, as so far regulated, may, before deciding on the selection of members of the Council, organise a public debate with the proposed candidates in order to gain insight into their ability to carry out the tasks of the Agency; Article 2 of Article 9 of the Act on Amendments and Supplements. In order to comply with the provisions of the Radio Diffusion Act, which relate to the election and resolution of members of the Agency's Council with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is proposed to delete the provisions which provide for a special majority in the selection of members of the Broadcasting Council. The current provisions of the Law, in particular Article 23(2) and Article 29(4), have established a special majority, i.e. most of the total number of Members of Parliaments necessary for the decision of the National Assembly. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that the National Assembly decided by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs, if the Constitution did not provide for a special majority. Therefore, the required special majority cannot be established by law nor by selecting members of the Broadcasting Agency Council, Article 4 of the Amendments and Supplements Act. In Article 5 of the proposed law, the deadline within which the National Assembly is required to elect a new member of the Council, in the event of the end of the term of office of a member of the Council before the time of his election, shall be extended from 30 days to 60 days. This removes the conflict with other provisions of the Law that prescribe deadlines for selecting members of the Council. The proposed amendments and additions to the provisions of the Radio-Difusion Act are in line with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, Art. 3, 7, 8 and 9. Laws on amendments and additions. The Law on Amendments and Supplements also lays down new deadlines and competent authorities when the first election of members of the Broadcasting Council is made in accordance with this law, Article 10 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements. I note that the provisions of Article 10 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting apply only when the first election of members of the Council, in accordance with this law. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion found that the day of election of members of the Council, in accordance with this law, the term of office of members of the Council, elected in accordance with the Law on Radio-Difusion, and that, in the first election of the members of the Council, does not apply the provisions of the Radio-Difusion Act, under which the same person cannot be elected in parallel twice as a member of the Council. This practically means that the current members of the Radio-Difusion Council can be re-elected, Article 12 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio-Difusion Act. So much for getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6342	Thank you. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the representatives of the groups for this point are authorised: the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party Vukosav Tomasevic, the Democratic Party Milan Stanimirovic, the Socialist Party of Serbia, Dr Zarko Obradovic and G17 plus Aleksandar Lazarevic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Committee on Culture and Information, Alexander Lazarevic? (No). The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudic? (No). Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? He has the word Mr. Obradovic, and then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6343	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, we are today discussing amendments to the Radio Diffusion Act. I would like to remind you that the Radio-Difusion Act was adopted in July 2002 with great pomp, with then-declarated estimates, that it is modern, pro-European, that in a new way it regulates broadcasting policy in Serbia, that it is in line with the experiences of the member states of the European Union and with many other positive assessments. No assessment or amendment by the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs has been respected that the law is not good, that in certain provisions it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that it contains vague, inaccurate provisions, that in certain parts, members, it is contradictory, confusing, etc. It would be interesting to mention that the said law had air support in the public of Serbia, electronic and printed media, and from various NGOs and media associations, both in preparation for the adoption and adoption of this law in the Serbian Parliament. Everything was in the best order possible until the election of members of the Broadcasting Agency Council. That's when things started to change, first hidden, and after the election of members of the Council and openly. The criticism of the Law and members of the individual began, first of all by the independent media, which also had a personal character, and sometimes it was about the law itself. Over time, things surfaced. The whole story was that the law was supposed to be good, but they're not good people who are in the Council, because they can't or don't want to ensure that certain interests are realized, of course, by critics' interests, whether these interests are esnafic, whether they're political, and almost certainly financial interests. So, a bad law, along with the personal composition of the Council, with the submission of the resignations of certain members and the non-election of new members, has created chaos in Serbia's broadcasting space, which, of course, is best used by media and financial mechanics, because under the company of free, democratic, true, transparent informing the information of financial oligarchy, certain interest groups, with the elimination of any critical words or opposite opposition attitude relative to the so-called editorial policy. That's why there's no room for all candidates or parties in the election. One is unwittingly followed and the media promotes, and the other almost doesn't exist. The best example is the presidential election we had a few months ago. Not to mention that other numerous provisions of the Radio Diffusion Act have not been implemented after two years since the Law was passed, because in this chaos, some swim very well, while constantly in the media they complain that they are sick. The best thing would be to adopt a new law on broadcasting, the Socialist Party of Serbia's stance, and to accurately identify all elements that regulate this complex issue. But that's what it's given up for now. It is therefore good, in our opinion, that we have received this amendment and addition of the Law, a proposal that has certain shortcomings, I will say which are later, but also as it is, it represents a small step forward in relation to the existing situation and an attempt to unblock the work of the Council by selecting a new council. About the election of members of the Council, mentioned here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what are the experiences of other countries, what is the role of states in determining members of the Council and in determining the structure of the Council, because we have had a permanent story during the adoption of the Law, and all the time since 2002, we say, that, like, the influence of media and other associations and NGOs should be dominant. And the state, here, needs to stand by and watch what's going on under the alleged firm, an explanation that it's the only basis and condition of media independence. For example, I will mention some European Union countries and what experiences they have. The Netherlands, for example, enjoys a three-member press commission; it is named by the royal decrees on the proposal of the State Secretary for Media. Italy – Italian Communications Administration; four members who propose both home parliaments and appoints a decree by the President of the Republic. Austria - Communication Committee; five members; members and directors appointed a federal Chancellor based on the usual rules for civil servants. Greece -- the National Federation of RT; seven members elect a special body of parliament, which presents all political parties. In Spain - nine members, appointed by the government on a proposal from the economy minister and minister of science and technology. The term of office of these members is different - four, five or six years. In Great Britain - nine members, six names of state secretariats to industry, culture, media and sports, and three members appointed these six members. In Portugal - 11 members, five elected parliaments, remained members of some other associations. In Ukraine - eight members, the chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the president of Ukraine are named four. I mention these examples for reasons that they show more than anything else how empty the story was that the state should stay out of the sphere of broadcasting policy in Serbia, and remain out of influence, and therefore this very important issue should be the subject of work, and of course the interests of different media groups. This perhaps more than anything shows that the state must, that it should play an important role, because in Serbia we had a way of selecting council members implicated different mistrusts in the authorities and it gave so-called. to the civil sector of non-recognizable powers in the countries of the European Union, which best shows the example I have set. I would say a word - two about the majority needed to elect members of the council, given that changes and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act put the issue on the agenda. It is good that an unconstitutional solution is lifted, and that is that most of the total number of MPs of the National Assembly is a condition for selecting members of the council. I must mention that this condition -- most of the total number of MPs, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions in the election of the Prime Minister and the impeachment of the government, in Articles 92 and 93. The constitution, or the adoption of constitutional law, and nowhere, of course, is known to be such a strict condition. We have changed the Constitution more easily than, based on the law that we are changing, we have been in a position to choose a member of the radio-diffusion council, which is, in itself, the nonsensum of the said provision. It's a good thing there are more candidates, it's one of the necessary conditions for the election of members of the Council. This proposal we have received has certain shortcomings, and I'm going to mention two, and I am submitting certain amendments, I think they are very logical in relation to the amendments and additions to the said law, and that they can solve certain open issues, which such a text of amendments and addition of the law solves. Regarding a member of the bill, which envisions the practical veto law for certain members of the council, in this case from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which, according to the Socialist Party of Serbia, would slow down, block, and thus prevent efficient work by both the Council and the Broadcasting Agency in general. By retaining the proposed solution, the other members of the council are essentially placed in an unequal position, which must not be a rule, especially a legal solution. Giving veto rights to one of the nine members of the broadcasting council is an essential obstacle to making decisions. One of the interests of one member of the council, in this case, is given the power to undo all other interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6344	Mr. Obradich, are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6345	I'll be done soon. By giving veto rights to one member of the council compared to the other eight, there is a fundamental introduction of inequality among members of the council. The second amendment, we think, improves changes and complements the proposed law. The amendment proposes that two candidates, in line with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, be identified by the committee responsible for domestic NGOs, citizens' association and professional associations, who propose a list of more than two candidates. Why did we Members of the SPS submit this amendment? The decision set out in the draft law on how to identify candidates for the Broadcasting Agency Council, proposed by domestic NGOs, citizens' associations, is illogical, as it can slow down or block the process of establishing a council. The amendment therefore proposes a more adequate solution, which is in the function of a faster constitution of the Council, and thus in the function of a more efficient work of the Radiodifuse Agency. In fact, it is little known, but it says that around 25,000 NGOs are registered in the Republic of Serbia, and there are approximately so many professional associations and associations of citizens. It is hard to expect that this number of these organizations could quickly and simply agree on candidates for the Broadcasting Agency Council, because the agreement is something that is foreseen by this law, which we are discussing today. The negotiation process, in case this proposed solution remains in the law, would take a long time and, in our opinion, would block the work of the Broadcasting Agency, which must have the Council, as the highest governing body. Essentially, unless NGOs want to agree, and the situation is practically possible, the Council will be blocked. If the agreement is something that is meant to be the only way of electing that member, then after the pre-election conditions, then in the event that an NGO does not want to agree, that member of the Council will not be fundamentally elected. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment, according to which, in the event that NGOs cannot agree, they do not want to agree, then the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament can set out a proposal for a candidate for a member of the Radio Diffusion Council. For this reason, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the bill create legal assumptions for selecting a new council. The choice of a new council is, in our opinion, very important and it is likely to follow in months after the adoption of amendments and amendments to the law, because without the constitution of the Council, it is not possible to call any competition for the award of broadcasting permits, it is not possible to exercise control of the legality of the work of the electronic media, nor to appoint the authorities of the Serbian broadcasting institution and the Vojvodina broadcasting institution in accordance with the law. The content of the Council's work is enormous, assuming the election of members creates assumptions that the Council can work. In this respect, the highest quality of this proposed text is the amendment and addition of the Radio-Difusion Act. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that we are resolving these amendments and some issues that are open and thus creating a condition for the Council to finally get legitimately elected members and finally start working and resolving the issue of broadcasting policy in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6346	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6347	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever a new coalition is created in Serbia, there is an opportunity to change the Law on Radio-Difusion, so that a new partner gets a member of the Broadcasting Agency's Council and there is no other reason for amending the law. If I had been involved in this in any way, if I had been the minister who was supposed to sign this, I would have refused to sign a stupid explanation, an explanation that because of the delay in the work of the Broadcasting Agency Council, the law should be amended. Because he says so, not because the law doesn't apply, so let's change the law. For two years, we have this Radio-Difusion Act, but do Serbia even know that we have that law? Have Serbian citizens seen, especially in the case of Serbian Radio-Television, European television, as the new government called it, and especially after its behaviour towards opposition political parties. The excuse for this law, two years ago, in July 2000, was Europe, the world: everyone regulates the media, media behaviour, media control and such a law. But they didn't tell us that it's perfectly normal in the world that state radio television will report everything correctly and that no one from the opposition is thinking of struggling to get a member into the Council of Broadcasting agencies, because he knows that whenever he's elected there he will take care of the basic democratic postulates in a democratic society. The Radiodifuse Council has been chosen by fraud, in various ways, and now it turns out that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is guilty because it has proposed several members of the Council, so let's change the law so that they are no longer proposed by the National Assembly but proposed by the committee in charge. In this state of state, the board that would be responsible for proposing members is the Committee on Labour, Social and Combat Affairs, because it deals with the removal of terror, fascist terror, and to add media terror. You, gentlemen, hold the television that publicly terrorises this society. I'm sorry that all of you in power can't influence the editorial policy of radio-television, but those who influence it have made their own party bulletin. These are election preparations. You have completely eliminated the Supervisory Board from the election process with severe violations of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. He's gone. It can't affect anything. No one controls the work of the media, especially the work of state media in an election campaign in the election process. Some say it should be the Broadcasting Agency Council, since it deals with all the issues of broadcasting, it should, but it doesn't exist and it doesn't do its job. And now that he exists, he's going to do his job again the same way he did the Council before him, the same way it was done when we didn't even have the Radio-Difusion Act, the Agency or the Broadcasting Agency Council. It's not up to the minister, Minister, just read the papers, but I suggest you read them at home when you're in the docks, because you might think you're here too, and you can't wait for this debate to pass. Minister, I know that this is not up to you, how much democratic television will be available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who is a political party teaming Serbia's Radio-Television ahead of the elections, to whom they were kidnapped and who they did not, at the time when you, Mr. Minister, were the director of one of the state-of-the-art televisions. You had one owner and you focused one political rival, and everything was clear: who was against the SPS, he was a free, independent Democrats, a hero, but now it's a different time. Now you who are in power have all the media, and those who do not have rich people who deal with politics. Now you don't have a focused political rival. Because your political rivals, Serbian radicals, have no opportunity to appear on your media, have no opportunity to be represented on state media. And that's why you don't care how you edit the state media, because what the state media has been doing in campaigns now, and even at a time when you're the minister, it's unimaginable in the West that you normally call for when you're making a law like this. So when you make laws like this, you also think that the director of television, that the editor-in-chief of television, will be from Serbia, and when they are from Serbia, they work for some politician or some rich guy. Keep that in mind. If you bring someone on the side, he'll run away because you won't let him do what he's supposed to do in that area. So we're doomed to work with people in the media, there's a lot of people who are capable, you know them all, you know their careers in journalism, but find me one who's going to work objectively. He's gone. The question is, what do you want to achieve by amending and supplementing the law - that the Council works? So, how long do we have to pick him? The committee responsible, I suppose, will be the Committee on Culture and Information, although it does not say it in the job description, is only said to deal with other affairs in these areas, whether these other areas and businesses are proposing members of the Broadcasting Agency Council, I don't think they are, let's just say that the Prime Minister suggests it. As far as this House depends on the treaty, let it depend on the Prime Minister, so let's see if there is a majority in parliament at all, whether his proposal can pass in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or if everything has to be negotiated here in benches, on committees, because you are not sure that the National Assembly could make a proposal that suits you. And I think you counted yourself on that board that you're going to declare competent or parent, so you say you have a majority there and you're going to pass there. I think after some discussions, and there's going to be a lot of discussion about this law, I think that with two or three debates, so I can see by some discussions and who's going to enter this board of broadcasting agencies, I also see that this law will be passed, but I don't see anything going to change any better. It will continue to favour the West to weigh on state media, and it will continue to be worse for Serbia after the elections because those who weigh the West have won. And it's never going to be arranged media space because you don't want it. It's not paper. It's behavior. When the minister publicly responds, so when he sends a letter to the public and says he is not satisfied with what he and that medium are doing, he does not want to participate, I imagine completely differently information and democracy, then I will realize that something has changed in Serbia. But nothing changes in Serbia now. We don't need those trademarks on TV. Just let go of the tone, close your eyes, and you'll know what station it's at, you know where it's headed, where the register from which that medium is supported. You don't solve the issue of local media, and that's what the law obliges you to do. You don't care about that. You don't care what Europe says about the media that are controlled by local self-government. It's said to be unimaginable, but it doesn't suit you. Anything where your powers are exercised can be applied to everything, because Europe will not object when you violate the basic principles established in Europe. But then don't promise the citizens of Serbia to enter Europe. Nothing more beautiful for Europe than to let you do whatever you want and let her say you can't enter Europe for that. You have local self-government funded by the media. Is it a task of local self-government? We now have before us elections for committees, presidents of municipalities and mayors. That's why you haven't abolished the local self-government media, because there they're going to make three round tables for their candidates, one presentation for each candidate, and one day and night they're going to stretch the candidate who's in power. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? No, I'm done. As we were against the law when it was passed, that is why I am authorized to say on behalf of the parliamentary group that we will not vote for these amendments and additions either. There's nothing behind them. An extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to amend the provisions of the Law on the Broadcasting Agency Council. Put a few financial laws into that extraordinary session, which you withdraw before the session itself. You don't think anyone remembers what this is about. We may have a few more extraordinary sessions and everything will be connected to the elections, because you in Serbia have frequented, as some before you, that you only work at the time the elections are called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6348	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you are, MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6349	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honored Presidency, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act. On July 27, 2002, when we passed the Radio Diffusion Act, the main objective of this law was to depoliticalise this area, to transform it democratically and to regulate it in general. In two words, seducing order in this area. In order not to elaborate now on what was happening in the meantime, it is certain that there have been some procedural problems regarding the election of members of the Radiodifuse Council. I am one of those who advocates that respect for the procedure has been constipated by son qua non or necessary conditions of respect, i.e. the establishment of democracy. However, I'm afraid in this situation we've thrown the essence of the form at hand. Today, despite the fact that two years ago, the Law on Radio-Difusion was passed, in fact, in our country, the law on radio-confusion acts, given that there are between 1,200 and 1,300 different broadcasters broadcasting radio or television programmes on Serbia's territory. Let's remind ourselves of some of the goals that were at the time when the Radio Diffusion Act was passed. It was not just about the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc., but really the need for a democratic society in transformation to adapt such an extremely important area, such as media, functioning and functioning, as is the case in the developed countries of Europe. Preventing the direct influence of politics on electronic media, primarily in the way of granting work permits, private radios and TV stations, as well as on the autonomous functioning of RTS and TV Novi Sad, which should be transformed into a public service. I'm afraid we haven't reached our goal in this area either. Perhaps these changes and additions to the Radio-Difusion Act are their only goal, as has been the case with some judges, to change this previous conference of the Radio-Difuze Council. I'd like to believe that's not true. In order to achieve the direct impact of politics on electronic media, a new institution, called the Republic Broadcasting Agency, has been established. It is therefore very important to have this way of forming an agency, i.e. the composition and method of selecting members of this agency. In some other countries, for example in Croatia, the government proposes all nine members, in Bulgaria the president proposes five, the government four. We were somewhat more democratic than we were in all 11 countries of transition, where I compared how this problem was solved. To remind you, the intention was that this agency had a legal personality, which makes it an independent legal entity, jurisdiction and authority given by the Radio Diffusion Act, as well as the position and way of selecting executive bodies ensure that it functions functionally, essentially independent of any state or any other influence. That was the intention. The primary task of this agency is to give permission to broadcast the program. I'm afraid she's not in charge of deciding on the technical issues of using frequencies, because under the Telecommunications Act, the Agency for Telecommunications is in charge, which simply doesn't work. If we vote to amend and supplement the Radio Diffusion Act, we carry out a complete procedure, so the intention is to start working after January 1st, I'm afraid we won't be able to end up allowing the Broadcasting Council to fulfil all its competences provided for by the Radio-Difusion Act. The fact is, however, that we have to forget everything that's happened and that after two years of the Law on Radio-Difusion, we have to allow the Radio-Difusion Council to start working and to seduce order in this media sphere, in particular the electronic media. Right now, it's in shortwave frequency chaos. They do radio and TV stations illegally, on inadequate equipment, all that is provided for by law, which is a minimum of technical standards for broadcasting programmes and minimum technical conditions, is not respected. If the Telecommunications Agency doesn't do its job, I'm afraid there's nothing they can do about it. Otherwise, the earth's broadcasting is regulated by international regulations, and they are internationally agreed, and we are obliged on this side to allow normal functioning in the ethnic space on our country's territory and not to endanger our neighbours in this area. In a conversation with some people, I learned that this network of repeaters and transmitters can even endanger the health of the population if it is set up in an inadequate way, in salters, in buildings, in residential areas, by networking, and this will likely be an opportunity to pass a law on electromagnetic radiation, which will also be regulated. As I have already mentioned, no Telecommunications Agency has been formed. In 11 transition countries, there are no 5.6 proposings, as provided for by this law. Instead of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Council of Vojvodina's proposals, the Committee on Culture and Information, six proposals, of which the Assembly will determine three. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina will propose two candidates, of whom this assembly should choose one. University Rectors in the Republic of Serbia, through a joint agreement; let's accept that the rectors can agree. We come to the Association of Broadcasting Public Voices in the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Journalists, professional associations of film and drama artists and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia – through a common agreement. For these associations, it is necessary to determine who this final authority is proposing which two candidates will be elected by this assembly, therefore, some crucial instance that will decide which are the two candidates. You know that in this area we have an Independent Association of Journalists, we have a Association of Journalists of Serbia, we have many associations that are directly opposed to many issues and that by nature things will want their candidate to be represented in some way in this broadcasting council. Then, domestic NGOs, citizens' associations, which are overly concerned with protecting freedom of speech, protecting the rights of national and ethnic minorities and protecting children's rights through a common agreement. It also applies to this situation, the Law on NGOs allows ten of the same people to establish an unprecedented number of NGOs, and there must be a method and a way to crystallise them from two candidates in front of this assembly. Maybe there's a way to rewrite a solution from a country where all this works and works. Churches and religious communities, and I think in some way it may have been misunderstood that it must be a priestly face in the Radiodifuse Council, so it was a monk of Porphyria, whose monastic position, in fact, and forbids him to look at some of the contents on TV or electronic media, so how can it be declared something, which in fact his position of monks doesn't even allow him to have insight into it. That is exactly what Mr Nikolic is now throwing – what kind of monk watching television, so I think that churches and religious communities could have some moral authority within the state to determine which is acceptable for all, for churches and religious communities, who would be their representative in the Radiodifuse Council and who could adequately perform his duty. Since this is already coming to an end, and I will use the first 10 minutes, the Democratic Party remains on the line that the depoliticalisation of the media space, which is carried out through formation, and I note, the indisputable Radio-Delefusing Council, is our strategic goal as DS. And it is certainly also the formation and construction of a public service, which includes the fundamental transformation of RTS and TV Novi Sad, but certainly also the determination of new roles of local and radio and TV stations, which are located under local self-government. Respecting, of course, the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, the DS wants this area settled, that there is no chaos and that there is no law on radioconfusion in Serbia's territory, and therefore we will vote in favour of this law, wanting to make our contribution to the regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6350	Thank you. Do any of the other representatives want a word? The word is Alexander Lazarevic, representative of G17. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable Citizens, in the beginning to say that G17 plus will support these amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act, because it believes that this proposal changes and complements the law really one important area is regulated in a legal and valid way. With all of my predecessors who spoke here, I can agree in one way, which is that there is absolute chaos in the field of broadcasting and in the field of electronic media. I'm going to do a brief review of everything that's been going on. So you said well that the Law on Radio Diffusion in this assembly was passed on July 18, 2002. Why has it not been applied and implemented so far, it may be a crucial question, why, and I will answer you: because the National Assembly has violated the provision of Article 24. paragraph 12. The law, by which it was necessary and important that the biographies of candidates who are proposed be made available to the public for 30 days, because the public must know who will represent themselves on this committee, and possibly that the public can influence the Agency, and above all in the Council do not find people who do not deserve it. You know for a fact that this advice is one body that has absolute authority to be independent, independent of politics, and independent of power, as it is independent of economic influences. So when we choose such a body, which is completely independent, there must be people in that body who have moral credibility and professional credibility. For example, the congregation violated the Law, Article 24 paragraph 12, and, of course, that the Council could not obtain legitimacy. He was elected, but that legitimacy for two years didn't exist. Therefore, there is a clear proposal for why these changes should be adopted and complemented by the Radio-Difusion Act in the only legal way, not to be transposed, without other political factors giving their people who will determine radio-difffusion. You know one thing we have to repeat here, the proposings propose people who don't have to be, and when it comes to MPs, they certainly can't be MPs, appointed or authorized persons, they can't be people who can have any conflict of interest. That applies to others, but they suggest people who don't respond to them, they don't have to be from these lines, so we solve the problem and the churches. It doesn't have to be a priest in the Radiodifuse Council, it has to be the one the church thinks will participate in the best way in solving the radio-diffusion, in fixing the broadcasting, because it has confidence in him. One more thing to tell you, Article 26 says that members do not represent in the Council the bodies that have proposed them, but perform their duty independently, according to their own knowledge. I expect, because I have no reason to believe otherwise, that the representatives proposed by the National Assembly, but also by all other authorised promoters, will be truly moral people and indeed professional. I don't see any reason why they'd think in advance that someone would be manipulated, that someone would be bribed, and that someone wouldn't work in accordance with the law, according to morality. I see the possibility that we can all choose the best people here together, who will take care of that mess that you mentioned. So, I must remind you that here some parliamentary groups have indicated that the law is being violated in the election of that Radio-Diffusing Council, but apparently it hasn't been heard. I must remind you that domestic radio broadcasting journalists' associations have indicated that the Council must be re-elected, because this council has no legitimacy, as well as many international organisations, such as the OSCE and all others who seem to want to help me solve this area, which is very important, in a legally valid way. What is the state of media in Serbia today? It seems to me that we must say that today the media area in Europe regulates the recommendations of two very important bodies, two very important bodies, such as the European Union and the Council of Europe. In December 2000, the Council of Europe made a recommendation to all the member states of the Council of Europe, and we, in the Council of Europe, suggested, nothing in the form of a must, to choose an independent regulatory body that will solve all the problems of broadcasting. I must remind you or inform you that Azerbaijan adopted this law in 2000, that Estonia passed this law in 2000 and that many other countries, which are now in the European Union, have passed the law much earlier. So, we agreed that the law is necessary, we agreed that the law is not being implemented and we agreed not to implement it because the RadioDifusion Council was elected illegally, with a violation of the legal procedure. So this is what we're removing. So, what is the state of the media, the state that today is radio frequency, natural resource and general good, but are limited by these permits that the Agency will, i.e. The radio-distributive advice to deal with, to assign only two criteria. The first criterion is software and the second is technical. I'll talk about the criteria later. It is very important that the consequences of the unsettled state of broadcasting are a huge number of broadcasters that, as we could hear, work without permission, with permits given by various authorities, therefore, are a completely unsettled legal system. The agency will ensure that people who meet the conditions get the opportunity to report or enrich in the right way, or whatever it is about the media, Serbian citizens. The 2003 media guide listed 456 radio stations. Unofficially, 600 were counted in 2002 and more than 800 radio stations in 2003. What's the consequence of this number of radio stations? The result is too many radio stations, let's say, there's a jam, a lot of people get mixed up on the same frequency, but what's very important for those who deal with this business professionally, so for the emitters, is the possibility of making money. If you have this number of radio stations, many of which are ju-boxing radio stations, greetings and wishes from radio audiences, you cannot properly parize something that is cheap. If someone attaches a computer to a transmitter, he has a radio station. They must meet the technical criteria, to enable those who invest in this medium to make a profit. So whoever has good people who work, professionals who work, his commercials are more expensive and must be allowed to work. There's no room for broadcasting, but there's no room in the economy for this number of radio stations, since this is illegal and unfair competition. I want to give you a few examples that will clearly and vividly tell you how messy this area is with us. For example, there are 247,000 people in Novi Sad and they can hear 39 radio stations. There are 24 radio stations in Cačka, and there are even 93 radio stations in Belgrade. There are only 17 radio stations in London, and in Budapest 18, 11 radio stations can be heard in Sofia, in Ljubljana 10. It seems to me that this example rightly speaks of radio stations being able to fight for their share of the market, but if this area is settled. Another more paradoxical fact is that Serbia has, on condition, nearly 1000 radio stations, and that one China, with so many inhabitants, has 2,000 radio stations, with Hungary having 160 radio stations. These examples indicate that this section is completely unsettled and that this agency is tasked with handing out permits. The way he's gonna do it, I've already said it. This will be done by strictly respecting the programming and technical criteria. The situation with TV stations is no different than the situation with radio stations. The federal media research agency counted 176 TV stations in 2002. Off-the-book surveys by Strategic Research and Strategic Marketing have led to today between 300 and 350 television stations. Why can't there be so many TV stations? The reason is the same as for radio stations: the inability to sustain such a large number of media is purely economic, because the economy and purchasing power of the population and the needs of large advertisers cannot follow this number of media. So when we do this area, and we're not going to edit it, but we're going to edit the Agency that's chosen, and we've already said on what principles, it's really going to be a task to properly evaluate all emitters. The Agency is tasked with granting permits, but has the task of controlling how these permits, given, are exploited, how they are exploited. Of course, criteria must be fulfilled programically, but you are obliged to stick to it while you have permission. It's very important that no authorities participate in granting permits, because it's past the time when the permits were given because you're close to a political party, because some political party... (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yeah, I'm using another 10 minutes... He's got good connections with you, so he'll give you permission. The time has passed so that the authorities and representatives of political parties can influence the work of the broadcasters. Once you give a single body the opportunity to choose members in a democratic way, they are independent. The legal procedure very strictly defines how people who are in the Agency can be replaced, that is, in this council, which is these nine people. Neither this majority in the congregation nor in the government nor any next one can change them. We can go back to the beginning: why is the law changing? The law does not change to change the composition of the Council, but to allow the Council to apply the Radio Diffusion Act. What's worth to us is the Law, which we adopted in 2002, even if it's the best if we don't implement it. Now we're going to execute it when we choose the body according to a clear legal procedure. What are the technical criteria to get permission, if you are an emitter? Technical criteria mean two things: that you have a show technique, so that you do not interfere with the work of other media, other broadcasters, that you have an adequate study technique. You have to have everything that's prescribed, everything that's normal in all countries, like the standards of technique used in the media. Of course, you also need to have some building conditions in order to have media, because it's impossible to have a radio station in the basement or in some unlit space TV station. As far as the programming criteria are concerned, they're very strict. You have to have 50% of the program that's in Serbian, and you have to have 90% of the programs that you do yourself, which means that you can't just download the program, but you have to have people that you're going to train to make their own television, to edit themselves, to make these employees quality people, to be journalists who really know your job, and then, if you can make money, and you can earn by editing this system, these people can pay for it. So who benefits from implementing this law? First of all, the citizens of Serbia benefit, because Serbian citizens will see more quality television, impartial television, objective television, those televisions that protect their interests, and of course there will be broadcasters who, if they work in the right way, will be able to earn and, thus, enable them to support the programme, support the technique, so that they can pay everything they have to pay, that there are no pirates on TV, so according to copyright agencies, they will be able to meet their obligations. I want to say what everything can mean when this law is passed. What I'm about to say is that I think they're going to answer some of the questions asked by previous speakers. When this law is implemented, you have the possibility, which is very important, except for the permits that will be granted, when a competition occurs under a clearly established legal procedure, it is clearly defined as forming a public service in Serbia. So public service isn't state television. State television is the TV paid by the government, from the money taken by the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens paid RTS, made RTS work. Now that we can be satisfied and dissatisfied with the program, we can say that we think that this or that should be more or that this or that should be less. Public service is a body that has a board of directors, and this board of directors chooses this advice, which we choose. So it's not a council that represents political parties, it's a council that represents citizens of Serbia as a whole. The members of the Council will be elected by the Management Board, and the Management Board will appoint a director, of course, after the competition. There will be another body, and it is very important, which is a programme council, which will protect the interests of Serbian citizens, by watching and watching whether all those software concepts that are necessary and essential for public service are being implemented. Public service must protect the interests of Serbian citizens in general, it must have the most comprehensive programme, the most serious programme, which will also be drawn up from a programme that is scientific, cultural, artistic, sports, entertainment, educational content. It is a television that will be a public service because Serbian citizens will pay it. Serbian citizens will assess how the TV works. No one will have, nor will the political parties, which we fear most here or what Serbian citizens fear most, any influence. It's a quality, I'm speaking again about the implementation of this law. This law will only be implemented on condition that we choose in a legally valid, regular manner, this advice, i.e. These nine people, who are going to edit this less-than-slight area and who are going to have a really huge task in this first period, when all of this has to be arranged. I believe that there will be professional, competent and unsuspecting people sitting on that council. Of course, it's up to us. The Assembly's board of directors will be elected by three people who will represent us, but the Assembly here is a body represented by representatives of the authorities, as well as representatives of the opposition. I don't mind, nor any of the G17 Plus MPs, that opposition representatives participate in choosing exactly the man who, in the right way, will, in the way we all stand for, represent interests primarily of broadcasting in Serbia. What seems very important to me is that we resolve or try to resolve two dilemmas. Some of my colleagues have already talked about it. What is the experience of countries in the environment? There are two sauces, there are two opinions, one opinion says that the representatives of the authorities have too much influence on the formation of this council, and others say civil society representatives have too much influence on the formation of this council. It seems to me that the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Radio-Difusion is taking place. We have four members who, conditionally speaking, propose political representatives, or representatives of the state, who have been elected in the most legitimate way by the people, to represent their interests. I don't see anything wrong with that. I don't see why any representative, conditionally spoken to the authorities, would be less or more corrupt than anyone else. But we also have that sauce on the scale that says, we have four representatives of civil society. So we have representatives of the church. This law is the only one in the world, to be precise, in Europe, which includes such an important segment of society. We have representatives of NGOs dealing with the protection of rights and freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities, which is very important for national and ethnic minorities. I can have my representative on that council, as well as protection of children's rights. Of course, in this council you have representatives of universities and organizations professionally involved in this area. So we have absolute balance. But let's go back to what we said before. They all represent radio-diffusion. They represent their proposings. Eight of them are elected by the ninth member of the two-thirds majority. Excuse me, if the president is elected by a two-thirds majority, if the ninth member is elected by a two-thirds majority, of course that council will have to agree. Of course, that advice will work in the interest of taking care of what he was chosen to do. I think we've gone one step further. We can take three countries that are in transition. In Croatia, the government proposes all nine members of the Broadcasting Council, in Bulgaria it proposes five members, and four proposes the President of the Republic, Romania proposes the Senate, parliament, government and president. So they're going to Europe, and that's our ultimate goal. This is a European law, which rightly regulates this area. They have representatives of the government. We have representatives of civil society and it seems to me that we show greater democracy in all this. I want to say in the end, and I end up with that, that G17 plus, as I said at the beginning, will support the amendment and addition of the law. G17 plus will support everything that regulates every area in which the situation is unsettled. G17 Plus is not afraid or afraid to be in any way someone who will take responsibility for handling everything that does not work in this country, no matter how much the citizens of Serbia appreciate it in one way or another, no matter how much they have the opportunity to see that one of the TVs in the most immodest, inadequate way, completely contrary to this law, can attack one political party, because we are political opponents. It can happen to us today, tomorrow it will happen to any other political party. So we're about to settle the situation in radio-diffusion, but we're also about to settle the situation throughout the country. We're behind everything that's good. So, the G17 plus will vote for this bill because we think the Council will have unsuspecting people sitting on it, because we don't think all the money in this country can be bought, and because we're sure that as representatives of the G17 plus we are the ones who can propose, because we know we're not corrupt and we know we're fighting for the right things. I expect the National Assembly to let what is indisputable, which is to settle the situation in radio-diffusion, leave the legally elected body, which will indeed rightly take care of this area and expect all MPs to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6352	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? He has the word Vukosav Tomasevic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6353	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the great honor of being one of the first speakers under the new coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. I have to admit that it turns me on, but despite this, I will try to make my contribution to this debate and convey the views of the Democratic Party of Serbia on this issue. Back in 1789, the American Congress ratified, and two years later, it adopted a famous first amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which was denied the right to restrict freedom of speech in any way by any act of its own. This example was later adopted in all the countries that we today consider democratically regulated states and in these societies this issue of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, so this issue of radio-diffusion has long been put forward by ad act, that is how it should be resolved. With us, unfortunately, we cannot resolve this issue properly, so a series of attempts at broadcasting in Serbia have been made to regulate legally, and then practically regulate, but we cannot bring this to an end. The last such failed attempt occurred in the previous assembly, during the previous government of the Republic of Serbia. It was quite an unfortunate attempt at the very beginning. First, a year late in the term of the previous assembly with the adoption of the law, unnecessary and unwarranted, and then the preparation of the law was completely removed outside this assembly and all other bodies and competent bodies, which could have done the law; therefore, it is fully committed to what is now called the NGO sector in Serbia. When the Law was passed in this area in July 2002, it was adopted without attendance, at that time, by the largest parliamentary group. That was the moment the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia were unjustly deprived of their mandates. At that time, at a press conference and in party statements, we assessed that this law is not good and that we have predicted exactly what is happening now and what we can confirm, unfortunately, that this law will not come into practice and that it will not introduce order in the broadcasting in Serbia. I say, unfortunately, that's what happened. Then, it was seven months late by choosing the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Of course, it was late unwarranted, it was lost for seven months, and then this advice was chosen a little in a way contrary to that same law. So no legal procedure is respected. The Democratic Party of Serbia and its MPs in the assembly were then from this pay phone, and during the election of members of the Council in May last year, and then during the financing of the re-election last June, we pointed to all the illegality of such a procedure. We've indicated that this is what definitely devises this law and this advice. We said that by such an act, the Taji Council loses its start and legitimacy, and credibility, and authority, and that it will not be able to do anything, let alone do what should be the main job, to share the frequency legally in Serbia. Unfortunately, that's how it happened. I want to point to the point of view of this problem, not only of the legal aspect, but also of this moral aspect. So this council in each of its synergy has credibility and legitimacy, which must be derived from the moral and professional authority of each member individually and then from all as members of the body. This law does not apply to the Council. Not to repeat what the predecessors said. It shall not be applied at the same time in other segments. I will remind myself that it is not applied in parts related to Serbia's Radio-Television, or the current public service, to not be applied in the work of advertising on TV and on the radio, to not be applied in the work concerning the privatisation of local media, etc. Those issues and problems were raised by the Democratic Party of Serbia in the summer of last year in two discussions on this law, but unfortunately we failed to change things then. That's where the need for an oval law, which in practice doesn't apply, is changing. To change the way we do today, to first unblock the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, because this is a key condition that something happens at all, that any change in broadcasting in Serbia happens. The proposal to amend and supplement this law has three key changes. First, the structure of authorised proposings is changing, and instead of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Council of Vojvodina, the National Assembly is now appearing as the mandated proposal of three council members. Furthermore, it simplifys, precises and speeds up the election procedure for members of the Council. Third, the unconstitutional nature of this law is eliminated, disagreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We also pointed to this fact when adopting a new law, that the law in one of its provisions is absolutely unconstitutional, because this law provides for a qualified majority of 126 MPs to elect and resolve members of this council. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines that the National Assembly decides at majority vote sessions at a session attended by most MPs, unless the Constitution is specifically prescribed. Now we are also removing this unconstitution - if anyone had turned to the protection of constitutionality in the previous period, it is certainly to bring this law down. Finally, in a technical sense, through the amendments to this law, the Law on Radio-Difusion is in line with the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, which was adopted in the meantime. The amended law is fair and fair to all members of the current Council, regardless of what some of them have proved to be unworthy of working on this council in the past period, and no matter what some of them did not accept the correct offer that the Democratic Party of Serbia offered them last year. So they themselves insist that the council disband themselves then, to resign, and then through the amendment of the law, which we were prepared at that time, which was similar to this amendment, we allow them to re-apply through the regulatory legal procedure and be re-elected. They, I say, did not accept it at the time, but here, however, it is fair that the motion that the amendment has been made, therefore, that they are not denied the right to be elected, given that after one year, their mandate is shortened through the amendment of the law. For all these reasons, the Democratic Party of Serbia supports the bill. We believe that if this law is respected, this fast procedure will allow the new council to be established by the end of the year at the latest, and then that advice will be able to begin solving problems in radio-diffusion. Of course, it is not only the constitution of a new council calling on what can be regulated this area, but it is necessary to do some other jobs to finally introduce order in Serbia, and I will speak more extensively in my final presentation, using those other 10 minutes. In any case, the Democratic Party of Serbia will therefore support the bill and call on all MPs, all political groups in this assembly, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6354	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6355	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first of all express my regret that such an important law is passed in an emergency procedure, not in a regular procedure, because I believe that, given the importance of the area being regulated, and without whose arrangement we will never be able to call ourselves a democratic society, he deserves a regular procedure. It's a principled remark. However, it would have been much better if the whole law had suffered changes, given that the idea of a promoter is essentially unblocking the work of this broadcasting council, this amendment and the addition of the Law can be supported and I will support it, as an MP of this assembly, and as someone who cares exactly that this media sphere is finally being settled in this country. I'll remind you that none of us here probably even remembers the time when the work of the electronic media was arranged here, especially complicated, by my deep conviction, by bringing moratorium to the assignment of frequencies back in 2001, when the virtually legalized work of those who had done absolutely monopoly until then and when one unfair competition was created or, literally speaking, those who stole national treasures had received the legitimacy to do so and since then, and we absolutely have an unsettled media sphere. It's in principle. However, I am afraid that the motionor did not define the procedure as precise as necessary until the end of the procedure, so that we do not get into a situation where the constitution of this council is blocked again. What is concrete, since I do not have time, like the other MPs, I will try to be brief and draw your attention to exactly what I consider to be crucial. Since we have three legislators here, a law envisaged, consisting of several legal entities, the legislator provided for Article 24(4) that authorised proposings set out their proposals on their own, and if one authorised proposing consists of several legal entities, the proposal is determined by mutual agreement. Now we come to a crucial issue -- that by mutually agreeing and this pending procedure brings us to a situation that can be literally blocked and that the advice will never be chosen. Through the amendments, which I have sent to the committee responsible and to this assembly, I have proposed that, when we adopt this law, if we adopt this law, the President of the Assembly shall make a public call to all legal entities which are considered legally authorised to be proposing or to participate in the proposal, to deliver their written consent within 15 days, therefore, that they wish to participate in the selection of members of the Broadcasting Council, as of course, and to confirm that they have been registered. And, in the case of, say, NGOs, which are here, we've heard -- a few tens of thousands, I'll try to explain it plastically. When within 15 days interested NGOs deliver their written consent that they want to participate in the selection of members of the Broadcasting Council, you essentially get the number of these NGOs who will be able to participate in the work on the appointment of that representative who is in their jurisdiction. So, at that moment, they can organise a session that will know how many of them participate, what is the quorum, what is the majority, and we won't come into danger like we do, if it doesn't fit, that it appears to us in the Assembly more lists with proposals, where they are fighting each other and that they will never agree. This is how you have the opportunity to simply get in the first drink of two members who need to come here before us MPs to vote on them. So the procedure here is completely clear and unequivocal. I think it reduces the possibility of both the mixing and the various expressions of interest, as some have expressed concern that it might happen. What is also the problem is that the legislator predicted that the committee responsible, whose own member, therefore the Committee on Culture and Information, is going to receive a huge part of the administrative and technical work that is not at all in his description. We Committee members cannot deal with such issues as: are the documents provided by law? That is why, through the amendments, I have proposed that the congregation’s office, which otherwise prepares meetings, both committees, and the Assembly itself, do so. So, that part of the authority is also transferred to the Broadcasting Agency which, in my deep conviction, therefore exists, and is the only human being, and technically qualified to literally handle thousands of applications and documents in relatively short time. All the amendments I have made, the three of them, are to specify the procedure, in order to avoid the possibility of blocking the work and disabling the selection of members of the RadioDifuze Council. There's absolutely nothing here that would be politically asynchronous of what the government wanted, what the promoter wanted, I just think that my amendments are further ensured that the selection of members of the Radiodifuge Agency's Council will be made known. So much for this announcement, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6356	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Rajko Baralić; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6357	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not thrilled that he's behind my back, based on the recommendation and in an unconstitutional way on his coat of arms, but I'm keeping a card with a legitimate coat of arms, so once I'm legitimized, I'll have enough. Also, I ask the carpenters who were the most efficient in parliament to put what's called a coat of arms on the assembly speaker or to take this off behind the chairman, because there's no point in making each door look like a tent of ten with a bow. So, to return that coat of arms or to return what you call a new coat of arms, or to bring everything into its previous state. I understand, and there's no problem with what you're reacting. You seem to like this part of "ten with onions" the most. As for the topic of the agenda and who follows closely what happened in 2002, and who followed the amendments submitted by the MPs of my parliamentary group, he could then and now conclude, if he wished, that the National Assembly had then missed the opportunity for a Galimatias, who then called Mr Rade Veljanovski's MP here a bill, on speed, which produced a consequence today called chaos, so whoever wanted to follow, could and could establish that several amendments were accepted at the time, and several of them were submitted by MPs, Bata Živoinović and Jovica Arsic, MPs of the SPS, would not today have amendments and additions to this law. Why it is important to discuss this today and why it is important for the law to be passed, perhaps not exactly as it is proposed, but certainly to adopt it. It's important because there are really big problems in this area, they're not created by one of the regimes that you characterized democratically entering the development of the media, but just as it has enabled beyond measure, and it's uncritical to give a chance to anyone who's found a foreign sponsor to be the owner of the electronic media. According to counterpart Lazarevic, we have examples in neighbouring countries, for example, Austria had exclusively electronic media owned by state-owned by 2001, and today there are electronic media that are private or mixed-owned, only if they can cover a space that sees more than a million and a half citizens, which limits the power of the transmitters, which basically means that the one in Vienna can watch, and who isn't, can't. There were, of course, different variations here. I have reminded myself before, I remind you now, that the official ambassador of the Czech Republic, Mr. Ivan Bushnjak, has brought a coded driver to a private radio station, which can only re-emission Free Europe and Radio Deutsche Vele. They work today and many do so today. What they are doing today is a minor problem, a bigger problem is that their associations today want to participate in the distribution of frequencies, to declare their rights because they are owners of these electronic media, which function in a way that is not in accordance with the law. It has already been said that the NGO has been trying, trying to do so before, in a way that is not appropriate, to exert political influence on one of the most important areas in a country. One country's ether needs to be managed by the state -- so it's in the whole civilized world, so it has to be in ours. In Serbia, otherwise, there is a pathological fear of the MPs, and then someone for whom we cannot in any way determine what kind of rating he is, who he supports and who he represents, is often on the list of those on whom the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian Government, the competent assembly committees, the ministry or anyone else is appointed. In such a situation, there would be no need for different specificities to be expressed through the non-governmental sector, through associations of journalists, etc., I guess each of us represents, among other things, and all of them together. But since these are changes and additions, unfortunately, it can't be a topic. The topic can be what is covered by these several members that the ministry and the government have decided and that we are talking about here today. There were also words here about it, I note that MP Zarko Obradovic has submitted an amendment trying to regulate that one member of the Radiodifuse Council cannot be more equal than others, so I have to say a few sentences: what does this mean? A member who regulates it is said practically that the Radiodifuge Council cannot make any decision, and it refers to the territory of the AP Vojvodina unless a member elected by the AP Vojvodina is declared to it. This basically means that one day that man says: I don't want RTS signals to extend across the Danube, I don't want them to reach Panchev, and if he says so, then RTS transmitters, Radio Belgrade and other radio stations in Serbia have to adjust so they can't cross there. I'm afraid this is a very big issue and I'm afraid it causes different consequences that are not only media, they are both national and state and political, and we will insist that the amendment submitted by Dr Radojevic be accepted. Also, I want to say, when it comes to a provision that says that the church and the religious communities have the right to one member, and this morning on the Committee on Culture and Information I spoke similarly, I believe that in one country that is set up as ours it is not necessary, but when it says it in the law, and obviously it will remain there, then I have to say something else, and I will repeat what I said on the Committee. Of course, the Serbian Orthodox Church cannot be more equal here than others, but it would not be normal for others to be more equal than the Serbian Orthodox Church. It's easy for me to talk about, I've never been voted by a priest or any official of the church, because they don't see me as their lawyer at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but here I'm speaking from the point of view of something that is the interest of the citizens of Serbia, of those where I come from, as well as of everyone else. We haven't defined what religious communities are. There are those we call traditional, there are several hundred and thousands of others, so it won't be possible for them all to exercise the right to exercise influence on who will have the right to frequency and other questions that are the subject of this law. But we'll see how things develop. In any case, I believe that the National Assembly will always bear in mind that the Serbian Orthodox Church, the church of the country's native people, will have the strength to make such a decision, if it should already be a representative of the religious community here. I don't want to talk about it anymore. Because the law has practically not been implemented, there have been major complications in these two years in terms of supervision and control over what electronic media in Serbia are doing. Completely incriminating, completely inconsistencies with state and national interests, some media have done things that just because of good taste shouldn't do, not to talk about other reasons. I prayed at the entire board session to be very precise about the work, i.e. the responsibility of the Agency and the Council, the work of the electronic media during the election campaign, because we have people who own the media and party owners, I deliberately don't speak party presidents, there are several in Serbia. We have complete abuse of these media, we have reports from last night that a television in the information program has devoted one third of the total time to its leader, it's about BK TV, which owns both parties and TV. We'll have to take care of it, and I guess he'll take care of it when he assigns national frequencies. In addition, the Copyright Act is not respected, we have done nothing to prevent piracy, we have done nothing that large electronic media, which sees several dozen, hundreds, thousands of people, do not have programs of such content in those hours when a father is ashamed to watch it with his daughter. So there must be a lot of things to be arranged, and if we have to choose this advice, we need to enable it to be selected on the basis of changes and additions to this law, then, among other things, because today in Serbia, virtually anyone who collects 50,000 euros should be able to have an electronic radio and TV station without being able to control it. The last thing, amendments and additions to the law, nothing changes regarding those media whose founders of local self-government, municipal, regional, republican, and the provisions of the 2002 Law say they must be privatised for at least four years, that is two more years. There are those who are in, there are those who are against. I am taking the opportunity to say that these media are mainly created by the single most qualitative budgets, which have been allocated to self-dependencies and donations, not including these parties, but by those provided by economic operators in local self-governments where these media exist. Today in Serbia, big bosses are preparing to buy these electronic television and radio stations. We will have the following problem: when this happens, practically citizens who have invested large financial resources to have the right to be properly informed about what they are interested in will be able to have the owners of this or of that again, media owners who will do so as they please, and not as it suits the interests of the citizens. On the other hand, local self-government stands out huge financial resources. In Cacak, it is more than necessary to finance the costs of all secondary schools in the city, which is about 500,000 euros, to know what money it is, in a year. I think something must be done to correct this or to regulate it in some other way. Otherwise, the citizens will be left without what they've financed themselves, and they won't be able to control what happens next. The SPS will support amendments and amendments to the law and insist on the adoption of Mr. Zarko Obradovic's amendment, which concerns preventing a consensus vote, namely a veto referring to an AP representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6358	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6359	Thank you. I can tell you that I am extremely happy today to be standing right under this coat of arms, an old-new coat of arms, and that yesterday we had the strength to pass most of this law that we passed. (President: Excuse me, unanimously. Thank you. ) I always look forward to doing something that is good for this country, and I look forward to this law, which is remarks, that these amendments were made, and that was trying to make this law better, that something in Serbia would ultimately work better. Now I'd like to talk about the technical resources that will support this law. They're not great, unfortunately, but that's our reality. The current state of the system, technical broadcasting systems, sound and images, in Serbia is extremely unfavourable. In the frequency range intended for radio-difusion other than medium-wave and shortwave areas, ultra-short waves are absolutely unsettled and there is chaos. The international frequency coordination process has been established and has not been implemented in Serbia for many years. A large number of broadcasting stations work completely illegally and inadequately. Hundreds of broadcasting stations, you're witnesses to it, works without permission, and there's no intended documentation, and technical conditions, as they do, are even sometimes unhealthy to the population. Yesterday we talked about radio transmitters and TV transmitters being placed in places that are harmful to people's health. It is likely that this congregation will have before it, very soon, and the law on protection against electromagnetic radiation. The unsettled state of radio spectrum is due to the poor management of frequency spectrum as the natural resource of a country. A significant contribution to this has made precisely this non-application of laws and other regulatory and sublegal acts, which should result in the work of the Telecommunications Agency, which has not yet worked. The national broadcasting system was damaged during the bombing, as you know. In a technical and technological sense, he has taken a catastrophic turn. The facilities across Serbia have been particularly destroyed on prominent radio relay systems, and in particular TV studio facilities. The situation is further worsened because it is impossible to use capacities in Kosovo and Metohija. The issue of technology connects Serbia's radio-television with very reduced emission capacities and with highly improvised solutions, resulting in adverse effects in the field of coverage of the Republic of TV and radio waves. Currently, in terms of radio frequency, earth’s radio-television is regulated by international regulations, adopted in 1961 in Stockholm, 1975 in Geneva, 1984, again in Geneva, and they are territorially consistent with all countries in Europe, with countries in the environment and with the former Yugoslav republics. In order to regulate the situation in the use of those radio ranges, it is necessary to have an internationally agreed frequency plan of distribution for these ranges, taking into account new users who, as we witness each day, are nothing more but without permits, both unjustly and irregularly. Therefore, radio frequencies and their use should be fully implemented according to the legislation. The reconstruction and construction of a radio-frequency telecommunications system is needed and for this purpose the ITU – international telecommunications union has brought a declaration, the body numbers 126 members, in Marrakesh in 2002. Whether something was done or not, I don't know, I don't have that information, but it was a chance for our country to restore its resources. For the preparatory phase, as technology goes terribly fast forward in this area, our country will have to prepare for so-called. digital radio frequency plan. Also, to reconcile analogue existing links with the digital plan. If there is no legal regulation, if there is no body that takes care of it, we will not be able to do it well. Our country is obliged to adopt this digital plan by 2006, it must pre-preparate it and normally adopt it by a resolute ministry, and on a proposal from the Telecommunications Agency. The existing Law on Radio-Difusion and Telecommunications, however nice we now present this, still needs to be further brought into line with other European legislation, and I am optimistic that this will happen, and implementation, planning and harmonisation with technical conditions must also be very quickly regulated. The telecommunications agency has to be formed immediately, because the editorial boards, the advice, it's all good, but if there's no physical resources, the whole system won't be able to work well. If there is no regulation to know exactly which radio station has the permission to use the frequency, which radio station and television have the capacities that are installed according to the regulations, because for the whole area, there are strictly defined technical conditions that must be respected. Every station has to meet the conditions so it doesn't bother others. Her area must be defined, which is not the case now. We have huge listening and reception problems. I'm optimistic and I hope that our valuable ministries will work very quickly on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6360	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Angelkovic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, this discussion today shows, and I probably wouldn't have come forward if I hadn't realized that we were actually discussing the Law on Broadcasting, not amending and supplementing the law. I have to remind you that we've been here for a week on the Radio-Difusion Act, and then as an SPS, we were against the Radio-Difusion Act, and I think the SRS was against the law, with a dozen amendments that were then submitted to the Radio-Difusion Act. We then pointed out to the vice president, Mr. Koraq, that this law is inadmissible, that it cannot be enforceable and that many questions are not regulated by this law. One of these questions we heard earlier, and this is a question of solving cable network, digitisation and in general switching from analogue to digital broadcasting digitally to radio and TV stations in general. This discussion today shows the need to make more urgent government and ministry commitment to work more seriously on amending the Radio-Difusion Act completely, and today it is only a matter of creating conditions to choose advice for radio-diffusion. These other issues that were on the agenda and talked about, talk about the need to make the law thoroughly. Then the idea was, it's true that there are many shortcomings, it's true that there are problems in that law, but it's necessary because of the European Union, because of this, because of the fact that we adopt the law immediately today and yesterday, which we would say, and so we adopted. So it's been two years and it turns out it's not exactly nothing, both today and tomorrow, but it's got to be done right, because then it's only worth it. Therefore, at that time we indicated that it was not possible under the existing law to choose advice for broadcasting. It turned out to be true. We simply have to announce that the government then made a proposal to choose a council that was not possible to start working. It was not only a question that these two council members were chosen without a complete procedure, and as you remember, we chose these two council members several times, even in a repeated procedure. Here was the question of trying a lobby, if I may say so, from this block let's be honest, from the block of those broadcasting organisations that are financed by a good part from abroad, that they have a major impact and that they have a majority in the advice of broadcasting. Let's just say it fair to our viewers, let's be fair to our voters that that was the essence of the problem being ineffective to this radio-diffusion council. I hope that these changes create conditions to choose advice for radio-distribution, and without such influence, so that it has in some way a major impact on the choice of advice and the Committee on Culture and this Assembly, and that we will get advice that will start to work. In that sense, I think that the consent of the existing broadcasting council or, better say, their initiation to change this law is certainly in that direction, and in favour of regulating the relationship of all of this. There are many issues unresolved, today we have heard that the issue of public service and the problem of public service is just whether the council will choose the board of directors. That's not true, it won't work as a public service just by choosing the RTS Board of Directors instead of the Government, but when the law is fully implemented, which is not to be financed from the budget. You can't even have the Serbian government from the Serbian citizens' budget, so from the incomes of Serbian citizens, RTS is funding from one side and the board of directors is choosing the Broadcasting Council. That's not possible. It is not possible for one to choose members of the RTS board, and the other to give money, to give money, to influence and manage RTS, to have someone else. Then it's not a public service. The state media admitted it, and we talked about it, and now we say, we're not against public service, not against state television, but in both variants, they have to be clean bills. If it is a state medium, then the board of directors chooses the Government, and if it is a public service, then funding and everything else is chosen by someone else, more specifically here is foreseen by the law – that is the Radiodifuge Council. Of course, the law predicted that all local media were privatised within two years, and I think it was deliberately avoided that possibility to end the privatisation of local media, because local elections were waiting, because the current government had absolute control over local media, so they needed local media now for the September elections to end the elections, and then they could. That's the facts. If we have to finish it, end it and put equal conditions for all the media houses in this country, and then we'll know who has influence, who has no influence, and who can support themselves on the economic principle and who can't. It does not prevent us from resolving the issue of media space in Serbia now, if we respect other laws. There can't be any media unless it's registered under the existing Radio Diffusion Act, and that's all he's got to do, not be some spare job, or he's got a TV or a radio on the way. There can't be a radio-television station that doesn't have an employee. Thus, if we resolve these questions, we will be sure to resolve these other questions. It's not the number of radio-television stations that's the problem. The problem is, does that TV station have a program? If that TV only has music videos, then it's not a television station. What kind of television is this Belgrade Palma or Info 24 when they only have videos or release satellite programs? Therefore, this television does not exist, objectively, but only takes up one range in broadcasting, and as such does not exist. Of course, such televisions are not set up on an economic platform. There are no such televisions on the economic account, if there is no one else, and not that the Broadcasting Council intervenes by saying that there is no station, that it has to go bankrupt, that it will stop. That's not the law on broadcasting, it's the law on bankruptcy. Still, let this be a start. I have to say, we're still contesting the Radio Diffusion Act. We don't think that law is right. But we will vote in favour of this change, in order to create conditions for the Council to be elected and something in that area to start working and to start solving something in that area, in addition to all the problems that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6362	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the opening of the principled search, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Here you go, Mr. Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6363	Thank you, Mr. President. I said I'd try to sum up the discussion and say what else I should do next to this job we're doing today. This amendment to the law is just one small part of the job that needs to be done in the field of broadcasting. In this way we will allow the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency to start functioning, as an authority that is competent under the Radio Diffusion Act to manage radio-diffusion. However, it will not solve all the problems in the broadcasting. Therefore, more jobs should be done in parallel and more fronts should be operated if order is to be introduced into the ether in Serbia. We heard in this debate data on how many radio and television stations in Serbia are working, acts without legal basis and without legal basis. So, after the adoption of this amendment to the Law, and I believe that we have a majority to accept it, it is necessary to respect those deadlines that this bill gives, when it comes to establishing a new radio-distribution council, and then the council would take over competences from its area, in order not to repeat the situation we had in the work of the current council. The current council was established seven months after the legal deadline, and after that, it did not start to do the work that the Law puts into his jurisdiction. It is necessary that, in parallel with the constitution of the council, it begins to apply some more uncontested provisions of this law, which are currently not applicable and can be applied, such as provisions of the Law concerning advertising or privatisation of local electronic media. Compared to the selection of this Council, it is necessary to start and then bring to an end, the selection procedure or the appointment of the Telecommunications Agency's Council. Until it is appointed the Council of the Agency for Telecommunications, an independent body, a regulatory body in this area, it is impossible, because it is prescribed by the Law, to initiate a procedure to divide frequencies in Serbia. So, even if so far, the Radio Diffusion Council has functioned, even if with the Radio-Difusion Act so far, everything has been fine, the competition for the allocation of frequencies could not be announced, nor will it be announced until the Telecommunications Agency's Council is established. For this reason, and from this place, I also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to all other authorised promoters and all other factors that should take part in this process of establishing a council, to get this job started as soon as possible. After this or compared to this job, the adoption of a new law on broadcasting should be approached or one serious, fundamental, comprehensive reconstruction of the current Law should be accessed. That is what the current Council of the Republic Agency has in its position, very correctly, established. Consciousness, in the Council, and the situation in which there is radio-difusion in Serbia, realizes that the existing legislation is missing, suggest the adoption of a new law or a fundamental reconstruction of the existing law. In addition to existing standards, the law should also include a special section on the financing of electronic media in Serbia. In the current Law, it's almost unspeakable. This creates huge problems, allows huge money in the electronic media in Serbia to spin on black and that society and the state have no control over that money. According to some estimates, about 100m euros were spent in the electronic media in Serbia in 2002. So the state also needs that money to put under its control. It may also be necessary for this area to pass a special law. Also, it is necessary to regulate RTS status, or public service, far more precisely than the provisions of the current Law do. I think the Law on Radio-Difusion should only determine the way, so the status of a public service, and then, through a special law, regulate its legal, economic and overall social position, and all its obligations. What should be the subject of special attention to the new broadcasting law, or, again, of a special law in this area, is the media concentration. One of the previous speakers said that in Serbia there is an illicit media concentration, by the fact that rich individuals buy and put under their control the media. This kind of monopoly is, in my opinion, the most dangerous monopoly that can happen to a society, especially a society in transition, like ours. Any other economic monopoly, therefore a monopoly on the market, can be broken by various anti-monopolis measures, but if someone or if some powerful individuals take over the monopoly over the media in Serbia, it will be the end of the story of freedom of speech, but also the end of the story of democracy in Serbia. The current Law has only six members, in fact, a chapter of six members, on preventing illicit media concentration. I think it should be done in a far more systematic and thorough way, even through a new law. In addition to these jobs, it is necessary that the state of broadcasting in Serbia be put in order, bring in two broader, general laws, therefore, to pass a new law on public information, because the existing Law is not good, nor gives an adequate framework for regulation of radio-difusion. Then, a law on the availability of public information should also be passed. When these two laws are passed, along with the jobs I had previously talked about, it must also be given a stronger constitutional and legal guarantee for freedom of speech and freedom of the media through the adoption of a new constitution of Serbia. I must say, unfortunately, we were witnesses at the time of "Sabre" that what the current constitution guarantees and what the current laws give is not enough to protect the freedom of the media in Serbia. We were witnesses when, in a period of our close past, media freedom in Serbia was absolutely suspended, and the media was placed under absolute control by a political group. So you can't let that happen anymore. The strong constitutional and legal guarantees must establish media freedom, while at the same time determining the responsibility and obligations of the media. What is now happening on the media scene of Serbia is not the case in serious countries in the world. That is, unfortunately, how we are abused by the media by these limits of media freedom. I appeal to all those responsible, who can contribute to the settlement of this area, to start working on a set of these affairs, and the political party to which I belong, the Democratic Party of Serbia, is ready to put all its potentials in order for this area to be settled properly. Once again, I call upon all MPs to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6364	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? (No). Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right based on article 89 who wants a word? (No). Does the minister want a word? (No). I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Lazarevic. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the promoters accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No). Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Nestorović, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, withdrew the amendment to Article 1 which lodged at 10.05 p.m. on 18 August 2004, and at 13,10 p.m. on the same day, submitted a new amendment to Article 1. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the promoters accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There is a word from MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6365	Dear colleagues, this is about the amendment I submitted to Article 23. Radio-distribution Act, item 2.6. I propose, instead of the solutions offered in the Amendments and Supplements Bill, that one of the authorised promoters is a church and religious community, a different formulation. I suggest that instead of "the church and the religious community", it stands "the churches of all official confesions, one of which is the two official candidates of the Serbian Orthodox Church". I think this is a much better solution. As you know, under the name of the church and the religious community, various religious associations and large numbers of sects have been registered. Let's put that aside. Given the number, it may happen to us, let's say, that the same weight has some religious organizations that suspect influential, rather than official churches: Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Muhamedan, Jewish and already existing as large official churches. There's seven of them. I think it's okay, given that the majority church here is the Serbian Orthodox Church, that one of the two candidates who comes here to the MPs, we vote, to be a representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and the other to be a candidate set up by agreement. That is the essence of this amendment that I propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6366	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No). Thank you. The Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 2nd Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? There is a word from MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6367	The amendment I have proposed concerns Article 2. It's a bill of law. In Article 24 paragraph 1, instead of saying "the competent committee of the Assembly", in my deep conviction, should stand for "the Office of the National Assembly". I believe it is cellificial that, in principle, the Assembly Committee, to which I belong, is not in charge of determining administrative matters, or technical matters. He's in charge of other things entirely. I believe that in this case a large number of different applications will be made, which will have to be passed through congregation services. It is not a place where it should come, but a congregation service, which is much better and in every way organized to handle it. So, the idea is that the congregation service, which prepares the meetings of the Committee Assembly, will take over this job. As for Article 4, I have a complaint here. I believe that a new sentence should be adopted which reads: "The proposal is considered to be agreed when it is declared by most legal entities in the group of authorised proposings, who have submitted statements that they will participate in proposing candidates for members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, through a joint agreement". This should also be applied in point 5.bi, to legal entities or persons located in a group of authorised proposings referred to in Article 1. The bill, i.e. item 2 3), 4) and 5, refers to proposals from the university's rectors in the Republic of Serbia, then the associations of broadcasting public reads in the Republic of Serbia and journalists' associations in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists. That's the part. For domestic NGOs and citizens' associations, which are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights, the two candidates, through a joint agreement, have been raised as their proposal. That's what I said when I spoke in principle. I believe that the legislator here has left out a more precise manual for the work of these proposings, which consists of several legal entities. That is why I think it is very important for this to change, in the sense that after a public call by the President of the Assembly, it is 15 days, that all these legal entities deliver written consent to wish to participate in the work. So, let's say, with NGOs, which you have tens of thousands, you get exactly a number of NGOs who want to participate. When you have a certain number of x, when you call a meeting you know what a quorum is, you know what the majority is and when you have it, it's easy to run a legitimate meeting. We will also not be able to get into a situation where, in an inability to agree on how it is prescribed, they deliver 50 lists with two candidates or five candidates, but you will be able to organise, if there is no consensus between them, to get two candidates who have the most votes, so that we absolutely ensure that the process has to succeed and that there is no blockade of work to decide on the members of the Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6368	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No). National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the proposing representative did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and a representative of the promoters accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No). Thank you. The 10th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Representative of the Proposer adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, whether proposal representative Dragan Kadadinovic, the culture minister, wants the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6369	I want to thank all those who have supported this amendment and the addition of the Radio Diffusion Act, because I consider this to be the clearest signal that the time has finally come for this area to be resolved in the best possible legal way. There were remarks that the law was changed precisely because it was not applied and that it was not good. It is said that there are some provisions of the law that were not good enough or clearly defined enough, it obviously bothered the implementation of this law. It is clear that it takes a few more months to comply with the whole procedure after the law is passed and that, in the meantime, the chaos in the media, or on the air, will be strengthened. In order to reduce that time, or to reduce the possibility of further multiplying radio and television stations, I think it is high time that we are all responsible, that this range of broadcasting be resolved in the best possible European and global way. It is true that human health is also at stake, because large-force transmitters are on many salters in this country and we need to think about it. I am sure, therefore, that these changes will come to the support of the majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-08-18-0.u6370	Thank you, too. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you. On the basis of Article 94(2), Rules of Procedure, we interrupt work and resume tomorrow at 10.00.
