ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-11-0.u5069	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the solemn session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I called this solemn session on the basis of Article 86(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with one point -- taking an oath from the president of the Republic of Serbia. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda: – THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COURT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF SERBIA OF SERBIA TO ALL National MPs a report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the President of the Republic of Serbia, held on 13 and 27 June 2004. The Republic Election Commission, on the basis of the results of the vote, found that Boris Tadic, with 1,681,528 votes, received the largest number of voters who voted and that, according to Article 5z, Article 5z was Article 5. Law on the election of the President of the Republic, elected President of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the conditions for the President of the Republic of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 86(5), were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia takes an oath before the National Assembly. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia meeting, in addition to the National MPs and elected President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic: Vojislav Kostunica, President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Miroljub Labus, Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Ministers of the Government of Serbia; Zoran Shami, President of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly and President of the Parliamentary Groups in the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Slobodan Vučetic, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia; Janko Lazarevic, V. d. President of the Supreme Court of Serbia; Radovan Jelasic, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia; Zoran Perović, President of the Republic of the Election Commission; His Holiness of the Patriarch of Serbia, Mr Pavle; Stanislav Hočevar, President of the Supreme Court of Belgrade; Radovan Jelasic, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia; Governor of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia; President of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the former President of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the former Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the former Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia Allow me to welcome the guests present on your behalf and on your behalf. I remind you that, according to Article 177. [[Applause]] The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the oath takes an oath by reading aloud the Constitution of the established text of the oath. After reading the text, the President of the Republic signs the text of the oath. I ask Mr Boris Tadic, elected president of the Republic of Serbia, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-11-0.u5070	"I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to achieve human and civil freedoms and rights, to respect and defend the Constitution and law, to preserve the peace and well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to carry out my duties in a safe and responsible manner. " [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-11-0.u5071	I ask Mr Boris Tadic to sign the oath text. Let me congratulate Mr. Boris Tadic on your behalf and ask him to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-11-0.u5072	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, the very fact that until a few days ago I sat in these parliamentary benches, in this House, says that I understand very well the role and importance of Parliament for the stability of our country's political system and every country. In that sense, we are today rounding up a process of institutionalizing our society. The three institutions, in a political sense, are the foundation of this stability: it is Parliament, it is the Government and it is the President of the Republic. I am convinced that in the coming period, while I am President of the Republic, we will cooperate on the mutual benefit of all institutions, in the name of the well-being of our citizens and the stability of our society and of our state. I am convinced that this communication between Parliament and the president must ensure on its own all that is necessary for the stability of this society to be guaranteed and its prosperity. I believe that in the next period it is important that we preserve legality and constitutionality. I believe that in the next period it is important that we understand national and national priorities and that in the next period, which will not be easy and that will, above all, characterise our intentions to join the European Union, for the sake of the better life of our citizens, all institutions have to do their part of the job. I assure you that in this sense I will be absolutely responsible and that with all the strength I have, and with all those abilities that I have, I will contribute to the stability, communication and the work of the institutions and the stability of this community. I thank you once again for your collegiate work in parliament, and I thank you in advance for your correct work, given our different positions now. Thanks again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-07-11-0.u5073	With this act, Mr Boris Tadic took office as president of the Republic of Serbia. I am concluding the National Assembly session of the Republic of Serbia.
