ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u109	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2004. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Arsen Kurjački, Natasa Micic, Milan Radulović, Goran Svilanovic, Goran Davidovic, Zoran Micovic, Bosko Ristic and Vojislav Kostunica, and that Zivodarka Dacin will be late. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - SUMMARY OF THE DECISION OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEETING OF THE MEETING OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA'S GOVERNMENTAL BANK OF SERBIA The word has the People's MP, George Mamula, and after that, MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u110	It is certain that Mrs. Korri Udovici did not deserve anything to play with her dignity, in the way she was played, and to be chosen as governor thanks to the falsification of the official document, i.e. by fraud, so that she was led astray and held in error that she was the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, but the whole of Serbia was led astray and held in error that she was governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Mr Tadic, defence minister, said last year as one of the Democratic Party's leaders, who was and who was not during that vote that July night, so we learned that the vote was against the law. More importantly, Serbian Prime Minister Mr. Zivkovic said in November that he knew in September that Mrs. Udovici and the entire government were elected, including the entire Democratic Party summit. So it would remain if, behold, it hadn't been clarified. As far as I know, governors don't choose in Europe that way. There's a variety of machinations, but when it comes to the governor, that's what's being taken care of. I must say that also Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic said it is much more important how the governor does his job than how he was elected. I think the way is very important and we wouldn't even be discussing this agenda point if it were so irrelevant and it wouldn't be the first item of the agenda. By the way, I don't think it's rushed at all, because since Mrs. Widowsky's illegal election, she's seven months old. So, seven months, we've been waiting for this to come up on the agenda. As for the quality of the performance of Ms. Udovici, it should be said that the data was published in public and was not denied, that the Serbian government had printed money to pay the company "Karic" back 2,600,000 dinars, because the Supreme Court decided that the tax charge based on the company's extra profit was unfounded. That's how a certain amount of money is printed. The statement was first made by Mr Dusan Janic of the Forum for Economic Relations, one of the NGOs, who seems to be well informed about what is happening in the government. The second statement in television "Dnevnik" was made by Mr Miroslav Prokopijevic, an economist. Today, the euro is 70.7 - 70.8 dinars. As for Mrs. Cory Udovici, she offered to resign, so she withdrew. However, she did not resign because she does not have the right to resign her own impeachment. Therefore, it cannot be expected. In my opinion, and I'd like to be wrong, she's in this place today on someone else's orders, not her own free will. That's why she can't be expected to resign. I believe that the proposal for a decision was established and that it was not necessary to state the constitutional basis, since it is a single legal act, and that a decision should be taken to put aside the decision on the choice of Mrs Udovicki. I wish her a lot of success in her new duty. I don't think the world economy is going to worry about its future when there's such an expert here, and we all need to make sure we work for our country, because voting on this point is going to be a big test for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u111	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Vice-President, the motion for a decision to put aside the decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is an essential violation of legal certainty. I would like to point out, in this case, that the Proposer, G17 plus, did not take into account the constitutional basis when drawing up the proposal. Any explanation of the proposal must contain, above all, the constitutional basis. In view of the above, if the proposal does not contain a constitutional basis, the proposal is not legally technically possible. The promoter called for Article 116(2) and Article 130. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 116, paragraph 2, says: "For a MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the National Assembly president proposes a move away from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was carried out will be annulled and will be immediately approached by identification and re-voting." So, at the same session, the vote will be held again. That provision of the Rules of Procedure is inapplicable when it is found that there has been an abuse of voting after several months. This means that the proposal submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group does not comply with the Constitution and the applicable law. The election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, held on 22 July last year, was illegal. The SRS first pointed to the public of Serbia. The SRS told the public that it wasn't just a choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia made without a quorum. It was voted in this period for individual laws, which today are in force, from different destinations of the world. We will mention voting for the Labour Act, a law that left workers without basic protection and social security. As I recall, there was a vote from Thessaloniki at the time. Mr. Labus didn't answer at the time, because he was one of the authorities, then he was in office as vice president of the federal government. And then the SRS pointed to all the thefts and irregularities that served the congregation's majority, led by the Democratic Party. The proposed decision cannot legally correct the illegal choice of governors. The term used in the proposal - "set off power" - is not a constitutional category. In this case, the Law on the National Bank of Serbia was to be applied, where the procedure for the resolution and appointment of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia was correctly regulated and prescribed. It is obvious that the proponent consciously ignored the constitutional basis, so as not to apply the applicable National Bank Act. However, the same is true of the resolution and appointment of the National Bank Council. The promoter, apparently, wants to avoid legal procedure and to portray himself to the public as a fighter for the rule of law, not respecting the Constitution, which leads us to their goal, which is, above all, taking up office as governor of the National Bank of Serbia prior to the formation of the government. Why is the Proposer in a hurry, that's clear. The time ahead will show what the G17 plus goal is: taking up the seat of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and controlling all financial flows in Serbia. It should remind the citizens of Serbia that G17 plus in the campaign advocated a legally regulated state and, to refresh their memory, some MPs who took part in the session of the Assembly held on July 22nd were present in this assembly. Miroljub Labus, at the end of the campaign, told the truth in a New Belgrade tribune that this knowledge came later and that such candidates for MPs would not enter the assembly. They knew then both Miroljub Labus and Mladjan Dinkic for this vote. And it is really difficult to observe DS MPs, in this case who are calling for legitimacy, but also MPs, say the DSS, who are asked by all forces to explain that the decision to put aside the decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is legally and technically possible, although there is no constitutional basis. Today you listen to DS MPs, and yesterday, as they sprayed their ashes confessing to stealing votes in parliament. It is simple not to believe that the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica are building a government with G17 plus, the SPO and New Serbia, and later probably with the DS. It will be the government of Serbia but a short term. It is possible to agree on a government in which there will be so many differences in the programme, from the monarchy to Serbia in the first place. (President: Please stick to the agenda. The government will be here next week. Don't worry. ) The fact is that the SRS will vote against this proposal. And, December 28th, Serbian citizens did not vote for such a policy led by the DSS. The SRS won the largest number of votes and is the strongest political party in this parliament. We offered the DSS the formation of a government, to reach a stable government, and to make this Serbia get the government it deserves. They have quietly accepted another way of acting in this assembly, making a government with those who have brought Serbia here for the past few years. That is why we expect the vote to be called in a regular procedure at all levels, and then the people in Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, will know that they are being punished for this policy they are now leading in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u113	The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make a few more views of the SPS that have never been heard before. Serbia needs institutions. The SPS has helped to establish this parliament and work the way we started these days, but Serbia does not need any institutions. The National Bank of Serbia is one of the most important institutions, one of the most important pillars of government, and that is monetary authorities. I remind you of all the responsibilities of the National Bank of Serbia. The first and primary objective is to achieve and maintain price stability. Secondly, the National Bank of Serbia, without questioning this goal, will support the measures of the Serbian government's economic policy. Third, the National Bank runs monetary policy, conducts a policy of dinar course, and with the consent of the Republic government, the dinar course regime. Does anyone in this room think that such a controversial function as the governor of the National Bank can be properly involved in achieving these objectives? And the sparrows in Serbia know that Mrs. Korri Udovicki was not elected unanimously to the Constitution, nor to the Rules of Procedure in force in this assembly. Now I'm simply surprised that people are showing up saying that what we have to decide today (or these days) is not constitutional, that it is not in accordance with the law, that it is not in accordance with the procedure. I am most surprised by Kori Udovici and the Lord of the National Bank Council, who announce some complaints to the Constitutional Court as if they were chosen in the most simple way possible. What my Passwords would say is that they lie to me, but they make me believe them. So there are no dilemmas here. This assembly has been authorized to change one of the superlative and punitive decisions. Gentlemen and Mrs. Korri Widowsky were not chosen, and that's the point. How do we think we're going forward if we let Kori Udovici wait for the end of the term of office as governor of the National Bank, that the National Bank Council gentlemen wait for the end of their term, because that seems to be the only thing that they understand would be regular, legitimate, legal and in accordance with the Constitution. I don't think it can be. Kori Udovicki received a gift from the governor of the National Bank, given by the president of the National Assembly and acting as president of the Republic at that time. If the gift was stolen in due time, then whoever has the gift when it is proven to have been stolen, and it was in this House, has primarily a moral obligation to return the gift. He has no right to hold him for a single minute. The story about if they wanted to resign they just didn't drink water, because if they did, they'd resign. If they were, at the moment it was found out that the vote in this assembly was not regular, they would have admitted that it was not regular - I am not the governor, we are not members of the National Bank Council; they would have returned that mandate to this assembly, President of the Assembly, asking to vote again. None of that happened. More than September of the month until today on TV and in the paper Kori Udovici convinces us that it was okay. I don't doubt how she did her job as governor of the National Bank, although I can see that there are some other data that could cast a slightly darker shadow on that work. I'm questioning her energizing efforts to remain in that position. Why is she fighting so hard to stay where she wasn't chosen? That's the point for me. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know these legal credentials, which is constitutional, which is less constitutional, but I can see now that there are some stories of some lawyers who say – people, so that's why it is trampled on legitimacy, constitutionality, etc. But isn't it constitutional that someone who hasn't been elected does that duty? That's the basic question for me, and that's why I don't have any doubt about whether this decision should be annulled and put it all back to square one.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u115	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the MP of the people, Susan Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal tabled by a group of MPs of the G17 Plus Group has not been set up by which the Assembly could decide today. Why is this proposal messy? It is messy, first, because it does not meet the basic norms for decision-making and does not contain one proposal as envisioned by the Rules of Procedure and as predicted by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, the proposer himself did not specify the constitutional basis in his proposal. These few sentences, here with nothing unsupported, absolutely should not be the subject of debate in such a high house, such as the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. If it comes from the principle of material truth, this procedure must establish the first actual state of play and the situation of the things contained in this proposal, facts must be established which are essential for Parliament to make a legally valid decision. It's not there. Ladies and gentlemen, no decision by any authority under the Constitution, without establishing material truth and the principle of material truth and the principle of assessment of evidence, can be the subject of debate and cannot be decided on. This was to be returned to the promoter as messy, by the speaker of the assembly, so that the MPs would be familiar and that they could see from the content whether this is the subject to be decided today by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I am asking the motionr - what facts and evidence today will offer to parliament the proposal, when only a flat-rate proposal states that the vote was not regular and that a number of MPs were not present at the session when it was decided on the election, let's call the election, governor of the National Bank. There are no letters, no names, no last name of the MP who was not in the session. How could this have happened, to accept this proposal and to put it in the debate procedure without saying - were not the MPs you and you, the name and the name of every MP in this House. Do you agree? Sure. We should get along. It's not there. There's no telling who was there, who wasn't there. What is said on a flat-rate basis – a number of MPs were not present at the session; that means actually one "nothing". Therefore, the evidence must be provided in parliament and the MPs to gain insight and determination; evidence should be provided on the basis of which a decision should be taken. From a legal point of view, ladies and gentlemen, if this decision is put out of effect as proposed by the Proposer, it is basically an opportunity to cancel and it applies only to the future, but not retroactively. However, with what is said in the proposal -- that it will not be retroactive and that it leaves the new governor of the National Bank to establish by his own free assessment what act brought by the illegal governor, who has exercised the usurpation of the governoral authority, and who will cancel - may happen to propose to one of the MPs or staff from the G17 plus, who will accept any decision by the governor who has made the usurpation of the governoral authority. Convalidation can't be. There's a mixture here. Either it was to be abolished or annulled, and the decommissioning of power leaves all the possibilities, and that's why the proposer here has skillfully served to highlight such arguments, which absolutely rightly could not pass, nor could they pass. So it leaves the new governor with discretion, which is absolutely not allowed. If one decision is put out of force, and this is to put out of force, and at the same time repealing it, that means that all decisions will be retroactively left in force and therefore the SRS will not vote in favour of such a proposal. Let me also point out that, for three years, we've been in that previous meeting, there's a good part of the MP who's been here, he's convinced that the vote has been made and that there have been many laws. Many laws have been passed by counterfeits, illegal votes, lack of quorum. Among these laws, it is certainly necessary to mention the law on lustration that has been passed in the same way, then the Law on Legalisation. I'm surprised that one of the promoters didn't mention whether to put out of force or to abolish the Labour Act, which has left hundreds of thousands of workers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia on a beggar stick, on the street, and that now mobsters are running their businesses and getting rich and putting locks on factory gates, and workers and their children are left without bread. As the vote in the previous session seemed to be the best, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it supports the inscription and the photograph that was published in "Kurure," where it can be seen. Here was Mrs. Micic, who chaired the session. She could see in the second row who was sitting, because it was obvious, it wasn't done somewhere in the hallway, but here, when third-row MPs vote in the second row and hold a finger on that button that stands for "yes." Here, this is enough evidence and it doesn't have to go far. Many laws have been passed in an inappropriate way in this House. Gentlemen Democrats, if you are in favour of Western democracy, state one Western parliament, give an example of whether this was in England, Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, that this is how the MPs voted, to be photographed by journalists, photographers and television. This is evidence from which no one from the previous government can escape, who has thus allowed himself to usurp parliament's right and deal with such unholy affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in no case can the SRS accept this proposal. We will vote against this proposal and against all harmful proposals and harmful laws; as we have fought three years earlier, and in the future we will fight and we will not allow this theft and harassment of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u117	Replica, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u118	I thank you, Mr. Jojic, for your presentation. I will support any request from any MP to determine the truth about when the Rules of Procedure was violated. It's nice to wave this picture, only there's one fact that you know very well, that in the second and third lines there are no such parliamentary units that allow it to vote. It can be checked this second. It's quite true, which you know, that there was no way to vote from the places where the MPs you're talking about were sitting, and you can check today. It is very ugly that the SRS MPs in this place use untrueness as an argument. This was a public vote, photographed by reporters of what was taken, that scene, and the reason it was just that there were no parliamentary units in the benches where there was a seat for DS MPs. The law isn't broken in this place, and you know it very well. You're instrumentalizing a picture from "Kurir," or any other list, and you can do it today -- you can check it out. I ask the Assembly to examine at this time whether this vote was by the rules, whether someone here was stealing or not and to put an end to this picture and to this event. I demand that the President of the Assembly carry out this check and inform the Assembly about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u119	It's nice to ask for something from the President of the Assembly, but it's worth reading the Rules of Procedure. A proposal may be sent to the Secretariat and it will carry out a check at your request and inform you by written means in an official manner. Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, it is nice to listen to Mr Tadic, especially at the moment he raises his voice; when he runs out of arguments he raises his tone, so I guess he counts - who's scared, or he won't have a chance to answer, or he won't be allowed to, I guess, the minister of defense is, so no one can say anything to him. Mr Tadic, whether they voted both, Mrs Joksimovic and Mr Markovic, either voted one, or the MP's unit did not accept their card, it is less important than their intention, and their intention certainly wasn't to work here on afternoon gymnastics, nor to deal with special athletic disciplines, but to counterfeit the will of MPs, to put a card into the MP's unit, and thus achieve the majority. If you're going to tell me that jumping over two rows of cards makes sense, because one of the voters is going to like it, not that they're committing a crime of theft, there's actually a crime now, a modern, newer generation, that you've introduced with the help of the computer system, which is why these MPs who were involved in these marshals are going to answer, so I'm not going to believe it. And don't use machinations and manipulations here and try to explain to Serbian citizens that there was no abuse, no theft, because in such a way the SPS MPs were caught in 1996; they also did not vote, even though they tried, they were not respected because it was not implemented until the end of the vote. In the same way as these MPs who have abused it in the most terrible way possible. I'd like you to tell us what it is, if it's so clear in the picture, what it's about, that we don't abuse. Did they jump on the beam, skip a goat, or – what was it? I think the citizens of Serbia need to know that well. Do not establish whether a crime has been committed or not, as should those who have now tried to persecute you in such a way. That's what competent state authorities should do. You finally learn, Mr. Tadic, even though you're not a lawyer, which is whose jurisdiction, what are the prerogatives of the government, who is and whose business. Who, finally, and how should take responsibility and who not. But what is the problem is the question of your principles. So we tried to steal, we did, but we failed, and don't judge us. The problem is that someone thought to steal and kidnap and end the will of MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Now, that's the essential thing. And the fact that he failed, and then we can call it stealing in an attempt. You know it's almost the same punishment as the one for the theft. I don't think there's any need anymore, in any way, to raise your voice to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and don't do that, because we're not afraid of you, Mr. Tadic, or anyone else in this assembly. Besides... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Our time is yet to come. Enough people told you in the election and showed you who and how they wanted to show their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u121	According to my records, you're running out of time. There's no replica on the replica. (He speaks to the Messenger of the people, Tadic. Is the law used? Used. Is that a replica? (He speaks to the MP Markovic. ) Here you are, however, has Mr. Dacic's right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS has never made decisions in parliament by stealing votes during its power. The SPS has always had a secure parliamentary majority, unlike the previous three years, when DOS decisions were made by stealing votes and stealing parliamentary mandates. The Socialist Party of Serbia has not had an absolute majority in parliament since 1992, but thanks to co-operation, coalitions, and minority support from some other political parties, and almost everyone sitting in this parliament, it has had a secure parliamentary majority, thus making decisions, rather than stealing votes and stealing in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u123	Here you go, replica, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u124	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I just don't know if there's any point in repeating what Mr. Tadic has already said, so I'm going to say it for the public. The second and third lines on the right do not have parliamentary units. If all MPs come to the assembly meeting, as it was then, which was two years ago, not all MPs sitting in that line can vote on those parliamentary units. So, Mr. Wolfie's... Well, Professor, I don't know how you can say it's not true... (Professor Simonovic inserts a card into the parliamentary unit. Well, obviously it's not worth it, obviously you don't understand. So, I call on the press, I would really ask, because this picture appears many times in our media, to paint the second and third lines on the right. So the second and third lines on the right, there are no parliamentary units in those lines. And as for these insults by Mr. Vukic, I find it unworthy of this House, and I think it's just proof that the radicals haven't changed anything, that they're the same radicals who've been polishing, threatening the rusty spoons and doing everything that we've seen in the last ten years. So once again, I call on all journalists to record the second and third lines, in the second and third order there are no parliamentary voting units. Thank you. [[In the meantime, Ambassador Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u125	No, it was his replica, don't... Many resent. ) Replication to your replica. No, no, to you, you mentioned him. Don't open the lines of replicas. I beg your order in the O.R., we will not discuss this matter safely during the session now, officials, the Department of the Assembly will examine this matter and inform the Assembly, if it is your intention to conduct investigations here, and besides, these matters are subject and prosecutorial matters. It is not a replica on a replica but on another basis, and I am asking you to understand, because Mr. Jojic did not get the right to reply, because the replica is on the line. [[Glasses: How can he get the right to a replica, and you did not give Tadic?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u126	It would be good for members to behave, i.e. Members of the Democratic Party. Unlike them, who have always been nice, and they were all just not nice, and fortunately their time has passed, and now some others will prove and show kindness, it would be good if you didn't use the lies, Mr. Markovic, I wouldn't say a more difficult word. And here's why, Mr. Markovic: here you can see exactly, in this photograph, that you, apart from having your cards inserted into the parliamentary units, are pressing the voting button, and that was the day that Bora Novakovic voted for the Labour Act from Thessaloniki. And secondly, as far as rusty spoons are concerned, when you don't know what to say, then you start to do the worst things and the worst things. When you talk about Mr. Seselj, Mr. Markovic, you have to do it with all due respect. It's about the big man. Especially you have to take care of it, because you left his family without a father on what time you left his children without a father for what time, and you take care of what you say. Take care, because you know how to make things up, how and how much you make up, and I'll tell you why. Mr. Seselj, speaking of rusty spoons, is to comment on the journalists on the humorous show, that once we finish this story... Are you going to shut up from G17 or are you going to keep on pretending to be smart and earning all the time? You're making drinks, that's much smarter and better. Go on with your crafts work, better than meddling in politics. As far as rusty spoons are concerned, Mr. Seselj is a journalist's question – are you the ones who kill, slaughter or I don't know what you're doing, answered – yes, it's all rusty spoons. Of course, to make a mockery of such nonsense and such untrueness. Since you don't know what else to say about the SRS, and since you didn't know what to find for the SRS for three years, other than fiction and threats, shouting and shit from this pay phone, you finally went back to the same thing. Have we changed or not? I'm telling you now, yes, we are the same and the same as we are, we beat you up and got three times as many votes as you, Mr. Markovic. The same, with much less money, with much less media, without state authorities, organizations and institutions, only with the support of the people, we managed to defeat you. (President: Time. ) Don’t worry, we’ll also have the theme of thieving some others on the agenda very quickly. Don't worry, you won't be left out of it. So, Mr. Markovic, as far as your statements are concerned, if you have something to tell us, where it was voted, it would be good, but it is clear that many times there has been abuse of cards, parliamentary units, abuse of the way and voting methods in the Assembly. We didn't warn you once but at least ten times at different sessions. What is our problem today is the fact that some others in dealing with you on this matter want to be used by illegal, anti-constitutional means. That's what we won't allow today. We don't even want to take part in the hack and the haranga against you, because unlike you, we've been through it. (President: Mr. Wolf, it's been a long time. Thank you, Mr. Martian, for your patience, I'll be done. This is the difference between you and us, because we will act in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution, but be safe and in accordance with what the people wanted to tell you, and the people wanted to tell you – we will no longer watch the jumping of goats or working in parter through parliamentary units, but we want to have a normal assembly where everyone will sit in their place and vote on their own conscience. That's the difference between you and us, and is it small?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u127	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Grubjesic, and then the People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow us to return the debate on the subject, and this is the proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the choice of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council. We have heard from this assembly pay phone during yesterday's session, and today, we have heard the approvals and contests of the proposal submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. You will agree with the conclusion that it is not disputed that the current governor and the National Bank of Serbia Council were elected in an illegal manner and that this National Assembly should elect a new governor and National Bank Council. If we don't, then we tend to believe that it doesn't matter how the governor is elected, but how he, and in this case, does his job. I want to believe that there is not a majority in this National Assembly that would support this attitude. I would like to refer to the reasons why the G17 Group of MPs plus tabled a proposal. At a meeting of the National Assembly, held on 22 July 2003, it voted in favour of the election of the Council and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Both votes were public, using an electronic voting system, i.e. through the abuse of the system, as will later be shown. So, as one fellow MP would say during yesterday's session, what happened happened, and what can be clearly and loudly called only by stealing the votes of MPs who were not present at that session. It is widely known that there was no quorum at that session for the work of the National Assembly, that day, which was a day for voting, there were fewer than 126 MPs present. I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution of Serbia, Article 80(1) of the National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs. One of the MPs, whose card was misused at the session, first went public and admitted not to vote, although his vote was registered in a computer copy. During the election campaign, we heard another recognition that a national MP was indeed on vacation at the time and did not vote in the National Assembly at a session on July 22nd. This case of abuse of parliamentary cards is currently being dealt with by the competent investigative authorities. This time, I wouldn't engage in speculation about who voted for who, which way, because it's the work of the investigative authorities. So the decision on the election of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council was made in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner. Not even the record from that session was adopted, because it was obvious what it was about. The G17 Plus MP group submitted a proposal to put aside the decision on the election of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council, not a motion to resolve, as we would thus recognise that the choice of governors and councils was legal, and it is known not to be. The Governor and the Council were not chosen to ask for their resolution from here now, but were set up by abuse of parliamentary cards. Yesterday, there was also a question as to why the G17 plus parliamentary group in its proposal proposed a search and decision-making process and why it is in a hurry, as the governor is allegedly ready to resign. The resignations would make sense, say, in August, after the fact that the choice was illegal. Offering resignation seven months later is too high and unnecessary. The National Bank of Serbia is one of the most important institutions and it is unacceptable to have a person elected in an illegal manner at its head. I will remind you that before that election neither the previous governor, Mr Dinkic, has formally been relieved of his duties. Therefore, the MP group G17 plus proposed to the National Assembly to put aside the decision from the previous call on the election of governors and councils and to elect the governor and the National Bank of Serbia's Council in the only acceptable, legitimate way, to most of the votes of the MPs present. The act would restore confidence that the highest legislative power, the National Assembly and monetary authority, the National Bank of Serbia, would be restored.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u129	The word has a People's MP Dusan Prorokovic, and then a National MP, Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u130	Dear People's MPs, I would first like to address the issue of constitutionality of making such a decision, as the issue has already been raised during an earlier debate, yesterday and today. It is true to be in Article 132. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia speak of the need for the constitutional basis for the adoption of any act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and may have the right to speak about the constitutionality of this proposal to anyone who spoke of constitutionality if there were no Article 156. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 156. Paragraph 3 states: "The procedure for the adoption of other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly shall apply accordingly to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the adoption of laws unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure for certain types of acts." Had it not been for the corresponding application of the Rules of Procedure to individual acts, the issue of the constitutionality of many other decisions of this Parliament could also be raised analoguely. Let's start with the basics. For example, what is the constitutional basis for selecting members of the assembly committees, that these very committees defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly exist and what is the constitutional basis for having just so many members? What is the constitutional basis for Serbia's Oil Industry Director to be elected by law in parliament? Why is it exactly the director of this company, why not the directors of other public enterprises? Or, for example, what is the constitutional basis for establishing any survey committee in this house and what is the constitutional basis for any survey committee to draw any conclusions? The essence of our debate here is, in fact, whether or not a member of 82 is injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're wrong, Mr. Jojic, when you say that no name or name stands in the light of the motion for a decision, because it's an 82. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly injured, that is a widely known fact. As the general known fact that today is Wednesday, so is the general fact that the quorum for the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia has not been, since the moment Mr. Rafaelovic went public and said he had not attended the session. We, as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, responded immediately after we learned (I underline this - on the knowledge) - because we couldn't find out right away, the listing was hidden by former National Assembly President Natasa Micicic for two months, so we couldn't determine who he really was and who he wasn't and asked for this decision to be made last year. We have remained consistent in our position and now we demand that your decision be made. About other people's inconsistencies, other parliamentary groups that changed their mind in the meantime, I won't talk. I also agree with Mr Nikolic's remarks that this house must deal with other irregularities that occurred in previous years. The most spectacular example is Mr. Novakovic's vote from Thessaloniki for the adoption of a new Labour Act. Don't worry, it'll all be on the agenda. It can also be discussed about the vote and the new labour law. However, if at this point, when we don't have a new labour law that we would put on the agenda, we make an identical decision on this matter and we put it out of force, this state labour law will not have. So when we have a new one, when we propose it to this home, then we will also raise a question of responsibility for counterfeiting and abuse when voting on the law. In this, we remained consistent, and in 2000, we also said that it was better to have any laws and to rule them in the state, and then to change them over time than to have no laws, and to force the state into anarchy. We were resented then by many of our coalition partners at the time. It has been said that we should not abide by radical and socialist laws. We did it then, we're doing it again. We have remained consistent in that attitude. I agree that this point didn't have to be quite the first, but I don't agree that it shouldn't have been on the agenda of this session. This point had to be one of the first, for political reasons, because the Democratic Party of Serbia wants to make discontinuance with that policy that legalised theft, counterfeiting and abuse in this house. Because we want to create a discontinuity with ideology in Serbia, I underline -- ideology, which defines that most of it is allowed. In order to explain this ideology a little bit better, I have to go back to a text from Hope magazine from May 23, 1980, which says, "Do you have to ask yourself where to go next? We have the same goal, the same path that's routed. There's nothing in the future that we won't be able to do. That's how Tito taught us. According to Tito, the world knows us. Tito created the best conditions in the world at work, at school, in society, to show our values. "The title of the text – "The youth and pioneers are ordering," and the subtitle: "In each of us lives Tito", signed by Kori Udovicki. Well, gentlemen of the former self-proclaimed ruling majority, you who have been inspired by Tito's art and life, and resurrected the titoistic methods in this home in the way of making decisions, now it's easier to understand why neither the Constitution nor the law nor the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly did not commit you to anything. It's just that you've changed a little, because by applying these methods, you've brought little good to Serbia in this particular case and in some other cases. The DSS will support this proposal, because we are convinced that Serbia can move forward by building system institutions according to the rules and principles of developed parliamentary democracies, creating a legal and fair state, not as some have imagined, continuing with Tito's pathways of revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u131	The People's Messenger Zoran Angelkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milko Stimac.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, we were all in an election campaign, which was just over a month ago, looking for and saying that we would correct what was adopted illegally or, better say, decisions that were illegally adopted in the Serbian Parliament. All MP groups, even those who today say that this decision should not be put out of effect, means that some parliamentary majority at the time and present, and the one that was not so, in the election campaign, has advocated that decisions that this assembly has not adopted or, better say, which it has declared should be put out of force, annulled or found a different mechanism that will mean correcting such decisions. From that position, I have to be honest, and here today I hear that everyone agrees that this decision on the election of Kori Udovici is not legal, is not legitimate, and that Kori Udovici is not elected in this House in a way that represents legality, the one that needs every decision to have in this House. I must say, we all have to agree with the fact that, if we want to have one stable institution called the National Bank of Serbia, and the Governor and Council of the National Bank must be elected in a legal and legitimate way and have a parliamentary majority, and not parliamentary cards as a majority in this Republic's parliament. It is only a question, if we all agree on this in this Republic's parliament, and I understand from all these discussions that everyone agrees that the governor has not been elected properly and that there is no parliamentary majority, how this mechanism to implement, how to get us to have a legitimate institution and that both the governor and the National Bank of Serbia's Council are legally elected. How different it is to confirm here the choice of these people or to choose others. If that's the case, then why are we looking for a different mechanism, we're looking for excuses not to implement it. We can discuss whether it was supposed to be in the Assembly today or next week and whether it should be the first annulment of the governor's decision and these other decisions or other laws, such as the Labour Act, the lustration law. We can talk about the order of these moves, but the most important thing is that all these acts, both the governor and the Council, and the Law on Labour and the Law on Lustration, and all those laws that were adopted here, be put out of force or annulled, or be adopted in an identical or different text, as the parliamentary majority here agrees and how it votes, but it has legitimacy and legality. There's an example here, like, that's when the game is faked, then the public criticizes the judge, but the game stays the way it is. That's not true. After all, cancel the game, so the participants of the affair or the fake match punishes six months, a year, someone turns off permanently and permanently forbids him to participate or perform any function in the football alliance or sport at all. Not with us, though, it's hard for us to do this, but if we want to look at the world as some people tell us here, then that's how it is in the world, then that team goes to some big league somewhere, to participate, and to play on and try to fight back in the first or some "A" league in that country. Thus, we have to act in a similar way. We must undo and put out of force what is not legally adopted here. If so, then it is necessary that the decisions we make here in Parliament are not affected by some economic lobbys outside this parliament, but influenced by MPs who are interested in legal and legitimate decisions. I fear that often, when I listen to some of my fellow Members in the Republic's parliament, when they agree that the decision to put out of force should be annulled, they do not vote because someone will benefit or harm from the change of such a decision. Let's throw some of that out. I heard a threat here yesterday, that Mrs. Korry Udovicki was going to take down a code of state secrets from some documents that were talking about where the state reserves were held, so a new affair would open up. Don't threaten that. If you know that, gentlemen of the Parliament, and if Cory Widowsky has something like that, let him open it right now. Why hasn't she opened it in seven months? Why don't you take the mark off the state's secret if it's up to today, both tomorrow and when it will. We think it's necessary. We don't think it's harmful. If someone was involved in something at the National Bank, I guess it's not Cory Widowsky to guard some thief or to protect someone who took part in it. That should be published, but there's a chance until today or tomorrow, and after that, it's too late. I think it's good for Kori Udovici to resign, if he thinks it makes a contribution, but it's not good for anyone to threaten this House by running a trial to protect their place as governor and member of the National Bank Council. It is not good, because this creates the instability of institutions and does not create the power of this parliament, as the country's chief arbitration officer on all possible laws or similar projects. It is not good and it is not possible for someone to defend their position by judging parliament over its decision. That is why it is necessary for us to complete this process, to start cancelling or repealing all the laws and decisions adopted in this way, to complete the process of voting cards, but to vote with the head, hand and parliamentary mandate in this House and to start by choosing a new governor and new National Bank of Serbia Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u133	The People's Messenger Milko Stimac has the word, and then the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, the second announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u134	Dearly beloved, what would the chief here yesterday, the largest parliamentary group, who boasted of his experience, for a reason, in politics and in this assembly, "is not easy to be an MP". For these few sessions, we slowly understand and learn. It's really not easy being an MP. It's not very difficult for us, but it's educational. Yesterday, just from the controversy of Mr. Tom Nikolic and Mr. Tadic, we were able to hear in several sentences the summated history of theft and theft in parliament, in elections, in Serbia's more modern political history. So it's useful to know and there's a lot in the experience, it's really true. But besides these memories, there are many other memories. We're here during the discussion, moving away from the topic, hearing a lot of things that just don't stand. Let's just say, we heard a repeated infatuated memory of incursion with machines at the National Bank, with socks on their heads. It doesn't exist, it didn't happen, gentlemen. I was there, you weren't there. I don't know how you recognized me, because October 4th, a man couldn't find you anywhere, and that happened on October 4th. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] (President: Please do not disturb the speaker. We can remember the entire period of the 1990s and this first two or three years of J.J.I.E. as a year of destruction. Then I can remember here and remind myself of what happened usefully both in the National Bank and in the vault that was covered by Professor Labus and what they were useful for this country left behind, and what was left behind the whole period of the 1990s and what was left, unfortunately, in destruction, when we were forced to move actively into opposition. But that's a step away from the subject again. But what's good, as the discussion goes on, is that we're less and less listening to pre-election speeches, because it's certain that governments will be, and the discussion slowly comes down to its essence. What's very good is that there are no representatives of the parliamentary group who have not realized that, practically, the governor has not been elected. It's a fake. So the governor wasn't elected and we all agree on that. Again, what is very good is that everyone agrees that it is necessary to strengthen institutions. Also, it was our starting point when we proposed this decision. It is clearly at point 1 of this decision, which, practically, protects and preserves legality and constitutionality, precisely what you are trying to dispute, and I do not understand how. For example, I had the opportunity to listen to Mr Aligrudić on television the night before last, which is very clear, explicit, legal, decadent, and to explain the legality and constitutionality of this decision, even though this decision, in practice, annulling something that was illegal, protecting legality and constitutionality. To whom it was not enough, our colleague Mr. Zeljko Ivanji further explained it, and above all it was necessary to pay attention to what was respected by Mr. Nikola Milosevic, with all his experience to be respected, said. So there's nothing controversial about it. Position 1 establishes, preserves legality and constitutionality, and, as Mr Tadic would say, it is time to put an end to this once, by repealing the illegal decision. I don't see what could be controversial about it. Point 2, practically, establishing legal certainty. There's nothing controversial about it either. After all, so did many of the debaters from different parliamentary groups. There is nothing disputed about the fact that the newly elected governor can make an audit, and he even has to, no matter how he is elected, to review what the institution he has taken over in the previous meeting. Also, there is nothing controversial in point 2 of point 2 that the acts of the newly elected governor cannot have a feedback. It's a constitutional category. One legal act cannot apply retroactively. So, this whole discussion so far, as I've seen it, and let me make a mistake, it aims to buy time, to distract us, in the hope that the government might not form and turn all of this into a pre-election campaign. Now here we see something interesting again, a match, a technical coalition here at the scene, around this point, between the Radical Party and the Democratic Party. You can convince me now if that's not the case, if we're already talking and we're taking the right to interpret what the other parliamentary groups want with this point. When it comes to affairs, that's what I'm going to end up with, simply, the affair isn't. It's about someone trying to spark affairs, and when it comes to the National Savings Bank, and when it comes to that break-in at the National Bank, I don't know what it's about. However, an ad infinitum cannot be lied to. There's no such thing as an affair. If there was something, do you think we'd be past, that we'd be let out of our hands like that? At the G17 Institute for three months we had seven financial inspections, the police. Of course they didn't find anything, they have nothing to find. But the point is, there's no affair. If there was an "a" from an affair, we'd have seen it in different pictures of "Kurr" that speak for themselves enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u135	Mr. Wolfie, the replica, and then the second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u136	Shall I go back to my seat or...?
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u137	Of course not.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have three minutes for Mr. Schimtz's replica. He said three things. He spoke of thefts and thefts in the previous period, about what was brought here yesterday in a duel between Mr Nikolic and Mr Tadic. In all the thefts and thefts that nobody mentioned, nor did Mr Tadic mention the Serbian Radical Party. No theft, theft, although I don't know what that means, the SRS did not participate, and we are known for that on the Serbian political scene. We can lose the election, as we've lost them convincingly in 2000, but first we announce those results, and then the winners come to us for the records, because they didn't have controllers everywhere. We tell the people, we lose the elections, we see where we're wrong, we see what it is that we didn't do right. We'll win the next election. Never in any place in the Serbian Parliament, the Federal Assembly, or the National Assembly until recently or today has established any single manipulation or theft of Serbian radicals. It's because of the public. As far as you're concerned, by the way, if that's what you're interested in, he's been kidnapped by a jeep to a Serbian radical party. Not that we stole it, but they stole it from us, and they stole it from the government. If that's what you're interested in, the court has decided to come back to us, and they say - we return the license, but we don't return the car. If that's what you're interested in. As for the thefts that others have made, the SRS has never done one thing that you've done, Mr. Squirt. We never wanted to take anyone else's MP, or buy it, or buy it, or move on to our MP's list or into our MP's club. When Momir Vojvodić, as a member of the People's Party, wanted to move to the SRS in the Federal Assembly, came to Mr. Seselj and said – your program is my program and I ask you to take me into your ranks. Mr. Seselj said -- no problem, you're an honorable man, an honest Serbian patriot, but resign first, in the next election you'll be on our list and enter as our MP to the SRJ Assembly. That's how these things are done. That's the difference between you and me. As for fear and where we were hiding, and what you were doing, you said you couldn't find us anywhere and that we hid in the holes on October 4th and 5th. We didn't hide in holes or anywhere else. Unlike the others, we didn't run into any transitional governments, we didn't want to get into anything that had to do with DOS, G17 plus, or anyone else. We were not hiding anywhere, because here these 82 men you see, when you see both Gordana Pop-Lazic and Natas and Verica Radet, and all of them and all the women of your revolution's first day have fought against you, and that is why they all deserve this number of MPs here and this much trust between the people and the citizens of Serbia. They've been fighting you from day one in every place possible. When you attacked our MPs physically, they fought and defended men. When you did it every other way, they fought and defended men. It will do so in the future, and it must be clear to all authorities. This is where 23 SRS MPs became a nightmare for 176 DOS MPs, and this is why 82 SRS MPs are today, and look at how many DOS MPs and what happened to them. Now I'd like to move on to the expert part of the debate. We were preparing late tonight to try to answer professionally. Just one more sentence, Mr. Stimac, as far as the technical coalition is concerned, the fiercest duels here today were between the representatives of the SRS and the DS. We are antipods of the political scene, but that doesn't mean that as opposition parties at certain times we won't vote against the authorities or if they say it's Wednesday we say it's Friday and vice versa. There is no coalition there, but it is known how the government votes and how the opposition votes. Don't worry about it, and I don't know who you're criticizing here, because you've been with them in government for three years, as long as it suits you, until you've been replaced from the highest places where you financially managed Serbia. Let's try to move on to this expert debate. I'm asking you now for these ten minutes. Why did I say expert debate? I don't want to go in or I'm going to talk very briefly about the political motivation of this proposal. So the proposal for this decision can be viewed with two levels. One is the political motivation of those who want to make this decision, and the other is the legal problem that is being put here. Political motivation is clear: let's stamp what happened in parliament, we'll get some political point, our political opponents will lose legitimately. All right, we can understand. What's on the other side? Some say, and I listened to it last night in the news, although they didn't say it from the assembly pay phone, right from your MP group, they say – all those who oppose such a decision agreed with the thief. Oh, come on! Where does that say? How is that possible? How can you say that in some way? That means, we say a crime has been committed or we think it is, but the competent judicial authorities will make a final decision about it. But we gave our political assessment of it. Now we need to see if this is possible or not. This, legally observed, is not possible. It's just not possible. Now let me tell you something, everyone who says this is against the law. I won't prove it to you based on the fact that you didn't write a constitutional basis in your proposal for an act, although you would have to. Here it writes itself - the basis for making a decision is contained in Article 130. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You could have written that this was a legally unsettled proposal. That's what you need to know. You could have asked for advice from one of the more experienced colleagues in the Serbian Parliament. Legally unsettled proposal. You could have done it the right way. You could have written a constitutional basis, I'll tell you where you could have found it; you could have called on Article 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to say -- it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly can make decisions and other regulations and general acts. If you'd written that, we wouldn't have been able to formally tell you that your proposal is messy, and it's legally messy. But that's not the real reason. The Serbian Constitution makes it clear – a ban, i.e. only in exceptional cases, on the possibility of passing laws with a retroactive fact. What's this about? Let's see if it's a law with a feedback or not. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, those who are not legal professions, but this is very important to discuss. In a previous meeting, the assembly passed several criminal laws with feedback, even with criminal-legal consequences. The Law of Responsibility for the violation of human rights has been passed, which they taught us was brought to Hungary, that it was brought here and there. They lied, he wasn't brought in. In the draft, such a law has been abolished in those countries. It was brought to Uruguay, where it was also suspended after one year of application. They brought it even with criminal and legal consequences and supported it by the majority in this congregation in a strange way. I don't think the DSS voted for that proposal at the time, but something like that was made in this assembly. They didn't take care of it when we talked to them – people, you don't bring back laws. It's the worst kind of crime. They passed the extra-profit law when you were looking forward to it. The one who doesn't give money for the Serbian Parliament today appeared, so the Assembly can't work; this is where he started yelling at the MPs – that's justice, that's justice, that's not even me. People, there are laws, there is a Constitution. It can't be trampled on by who comes to mind and when it comes to power, so now it's decided to carry out revolutionary justice. Why do you say, and those MPs who went out, I listened to the MPs before, I think his last name is Grubjesic from G17, who says – therefore, since she is not legitimately and legally chosen, she is not chosen. If it has not been selected and if you want to annul the decision of edge tuna (that means since), that means that it has not produced any legal consequences, that there is no legal fact and that there are no decisions in legal traffic, or that would be normal to say. Then you, in Section 2, you say someone will look at it and see if he likes it or not. And if he likes the decisions, if you don't want to cancel payouts, receipts, purchases of flomasters, paper or I don't know what for the National Bank of Serbia, then you'll say, "Here, wait, was she chosen?" Was it the legal consequence of her choice? Yes, it is. Anyone, in any way. That means you'll only make some decisions. Why? Why didn't it go the legal way? Even when an edge of tunc thus annuls marriage, children born in marriage are declared not to be born in a marital state. If you do it this way, it would be logical to say -- there's no decision that's been made in the meantime, not to make some kind of miraculous mix that no one can understand, understand, that can't work. Why don't you people make a decision on a resolution, choose a new governor, you have a majority? You wouldn't say that if it wasn't for constitutionality and legality, etc., you're not here to take care of it. There are other state authorities that take care of it, not you. Your political decision is here. Mr. Prophetic said, with what he disarmed us, we can't say another nice word about Kora Udovicki, we didn't even say about Tito what he said, he said the wrong thing. He tried to compare this constitutional basis to how and on what constitutional basis we choose committees here, by which member, etc. It's not the same, it's not the same. You have in Article 73, paragraph 11, which says what all the Assembly can, and of course according to the Rules of Procedure in Article 41 under the control of the Government, it is primarily understood that the Assembly has committees etc., and this matter is governed by law, Mr. Prophetic. It is known how the governor and the National Bank of Serbia are elected and resolved. It's a fundamental thing and a fundamental difference. There is no way to identify it, and now they have condemned the theft; they are against the thieves, and they have not condemned the theft; they are not against the thieves. No, we're against revolutionary justice. Why is this the first item of the agenda, to whom did it matter? We have submitted a bill on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, which is probably a much more important problem; the Law on Planning and Construction, the people do not have the money to pay as much for legalisation. Why isn't that on the agenda? Why many other life issues aren't on the agenda, but you found this on the agenda and you found it in the wrong way to do it. I know that in the current ruling majority of those who are going to make this new government there are a lot of people who know that we, when we say this, are right. They fill your whim. As a man who won't share the details of private conversations, because it's only dishonest people, I don't think I'm talking about these people, but you know that well, they fill you with your petty political whim, that you get one place, that you hurry up, that there would be or there wouldn't be a government, that you take that position anyway, and this is the only political motivation in question and absolutely nothing else. You could have done this in many different ways legally, in much better ways, but you didn't do it. Then go out and read us a lesson, say it, and you are the ones who will support the thieves. Well, we didn't, but we won't allow revolutionary justice either, because we fought against revolutionary justice after October 5th. As we fought those who tried to bring this justice against our coalition partners, against us, against others, so today we will fight against that revolutionary justice against others. We'll always do that. Serbia finally needs to come out of the wrongs right, not by wrong, that one wrong does not create a new wrong, as it happens again in Serbia, that once we end up, that we finally have a regulated and normal country, that we can finally function as normal people and we need it over. There is nothing more important in Serbia, at this point, than that, and of course we start talking about key system laws, about what people and citizens can live better than. I told you seven months ago not to come after me, now I'm going to replace you, etc., whichever of them is in this country, any of the citizens. It can't be done the wrong way. Now says Kori Udovicki (that's pretty funny) – we will appeal to the Constitutional Court. What Constitutional Court? The one whose head is the G17 plus member. He will appeal to whoever participates in his party's decisions or acts as a party man, as he did in the previous two years. Perhaps for her decision she will vote or support him as a member of the Democratic Party, Ciplic; there is another member of the GSS. But if you think you're referring to such a constitutional court, then let's go back to the time we didn't have it. We didn't have any idea of him in this period, even when he was working. I call on you (and I end it, thank you for your patience, Mr. President) not to make such laws, such decisions. You can say that what you have brought in some kind of interference of norms, that it was the basis by which it is a general legal act, at all, although I cannot agree with it, but I call on you to forget everything that has a return fact, to interpret it the way it should be interpreted, to forget the retroactive application, to forget the revenge of those who did it to you, or who didn't do it to you, it's completely irrelevant; and to deal with the law and to deal with serious politics and improve the lives of the citizens, because the people want to hear that they will get bread, that they will live better, the people want to see how they will be able to provide what you promised to have two years ago, favourable housing loans, so you didn't do anything, because the people are waiting to see whether there are hope and perspectives, or to look for a new solution. As far as we're concerned, we'll offer him that new solution at any moment. People have the right and the ability to choose, and I'm sure next time, that's why, even more trust will be given to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u139	Replica, Mr. Stimac I'm sorry, I have an interpretation of a man who really understands the regulations, the secretary. [[Alexander Vukic, from the scene: No right to replica, he challenged the replica.]] You have no right to a replica. The head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Paunovic, as a promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u140	We were very patient, believing that we would have a constructive debate about something that happened a few months ago in this House. I don't think our argument wanted to provoke anyone. We didn't want to mention anyone. We wanted to make a very precise reminder of what happened in this House. There's no problem out there. The problem lies in parliament. Now we have the exhibition, the legal and the others, how to explain that stealing can become legally perfect, as some say. Just please remind us once more of what happened in this House. How can you, Mr. Wolf, defend parliament if you feel that what happened is no big deal, that it's nothing unusual, that it's a big problem? Just how are we going to resolve the consequences of this event? Get away from the point of view. The point is, this is where the theft happened. The bottom line is, we have to solve this problem here, if you think this Parliament is going to continue to function normally. Citizens of Serbia without a clean relationship in Serbia's parliament and resolving this problem simply cannot have confidence in Serbia's parliament. Why so urgent? Well, precisely because the previous assembly of parliament after that decision ceased to work. That's why we have to move on to where the previous assembly of parliament has stopped, to correct everything that's happened and move on. I'm just worried when the SRS is talking about organized society. The citizens of Serbia, thank God, have quite enough memories to remember the previous years and to judge very well from this perspective what an orderly society looks like when Serbian radicals are involved in creating such a society. I'll remind you one more time - let's get back to the point, forget all the lies that were told by Mr. Vukic and try to get back to the point. Something happened in this House on July 22nd. If this parliament wants to maintain credibility and continue to function normally, we must remove the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u141	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I deserve insults and I don't know why. I don't know what kind of hard word I used to say about G17. I was just answering their charges. I don't want to answer you like that, Mr. Paunovic. You know, of course, that I'm not afraid of you, but I don't think of you, not because of you, but because of this high house and the citizens of Serbia, but I have to tell you, Mr. Paunovic, that we make everything clear. And unlike you, who praised the theft in this House, you praised her for the Labour Act and said it didn't matter what was stealing, but it's important to pass a reform law, we attacked here and steal the lustration law and elect Cora Udovici. Each time, the MPs of the SRS were both clear and loudest. We still condemn this kind of theft today, but the problem, Mr. Paunovic, is what you want to say – it's just you against it, and the others are now supporting that theft. No, we're clear against that theft, but we're against revolutionary justice. That's the difference between you and us, and we know that it's important that it be legally perfect; unlike you who don't, it's very important to us. As for the period you were talking about, whether or not the citizens remember, we were a minority partner in the government of the Republic of Serbia for a little over two years. If we had made mistakes, it's certain we had, we admitted our mistakes. It's been three and a half years since. The people have heard of both ours and your mistakes. They listened much more often about our mistakes. They listened a lot more to your fiction about our mistakes than they heard about what you did. No matter what, the Supreme Judge, the people, gave the SRS three times as much trust as your foreigner, Mr. Paunovic. Three times more trust, 300 times less money, then watch the difference between you and us. And, Mr. Paunovic, when you talk about lies, about fiction, and I don't know which one I said, I wish you'd told me one thing, I don't want to answer you that way, always make sure that every government comes to an end. We learned that. We were the strongest opposition. A short time of power, and we saw what it looked like. Well, endure, endure all persecution, all hickeys and haranga. You haven't seen it yet. You were all involved and hanged. Some others brought you in. You rule in one way or another all the time. You haven't seen what it's like to fall from power. (President: Time. But then you'll see how hard it is and how much trouble you'll be going through. And then you will take care of your political opponents, not to speak to them in such a way, because you will mature in the meantime, to realize that you have to respect, especially those who are much better than you, and they are much better than you, not because they are more beautiful to yourself in the mirror than you are, but because the people of Serbia are for them and not for you, Mr. Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u143	The word is Milos Aligrudic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, and then MP Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u144	Since there have been a lot of objections today to the constitutional justification of the proposal and its legality, I am obliged, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, to say that the Legislative Committee, which you saw in the material, has accepted as the legal text of the proposal for this decision. I'm using my right to a five-minute discussion, since I've just missed my first right of 10 minutes. I'm doing this because of the ongoing debate and the comments made so far. In short and simply, in my argument, the formal arrangement of the proposal with its essential content is being marred here. Its essential content is fully justified in Article 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines what tasks the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing, is, among other things, in point 3 of point 3 of point 1, saying that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is adopting a constitution, a law and other general acts. I will return to the proposal submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By its legal nature, it is a general act, regardless of what puts an individual act that was brought into force in its content, or it was tried to be brought on July 22, 2003. I'll remind you why the proposer says in his explanation that this is a non-existent legal act. For the simple reason he did not respect the procedure of his passing. The one who was competent and authorised to annul the procedure for its adoption, so that the vote can be repeated, as it stands in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is then the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic, did not do so. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, applying the analogy set out in Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the subsequent application as compared to the other procedure for law-making can put its act out of effect. This act is the same in shape, but in its essence and content it is not. He has the character of a legal act, which gives him point 2 of this proposal, which speaks of the legal fate of individual acts brought by former governor and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. These individual acts are an unspecified number in this proposal, and when it comes to the governor and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, they are not personalised, so it is not about any concrete future governor, name and last name, but about one position, a function that is unknown, in fact, until the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides who will be elected. So, the second point of this proposal gives the proposal the character of the general legal act, and therefore, the proposal is fully based on the Constitution, and on the other hand it is based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on Article 130. One is true – it is not based on the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, for a simple reason that in this case the act taken by this assembly should be an act to repeal the decision to elect governors and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, and that is simply not possible. By repealing the act, as an individual act, we would first put out any later acts by the governors and the National Bank of Serbia, which in reality produced consequences, thus jeopardising legal certainty in the state, and would lead to these decisions and those individual acts having no legal fact. It is the second position of the motion for a decision that eliminates this consequence and does not create confusion, but is an act of Sui Genis, which, by its character, has the minor power of the law and thus solves a gap that remains insurmountable after the inaugural, in my opinion, in the current, inaction of former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic. So I would say that the story of the constitutionality and possible illegality of this proposal should be completed. The question of inability, the question of whether or not someone likes this proposal, that's another question. I know there are two groups of MPs here. One whose nature it is to attack such an act simply because it was part of a protagonist performance that took place here on July 22, 2003. Another group of MPs is attacking this act for other reasons. They are not protagonists of this play and no one is accusing them of it, but it is obvious that they have a certain need to play the opposition to the power of God and they do, of course, relying on grounds they have no right to call.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u145	Before the MP of the people, Mr Albianic answered the word Mr. Mihajlov, the second announcement, and then the MP of the people Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u146	I'm a little surprised at the attempt to have one final principle debate, and that's whether it's responsible for stealing, is a political story. This is a principle question, and I think what's been resolved since the ages, that whoever steals has to answer, and what's stolen has to come back. In this case, we know what's been stolen, we know what's caused it, and we need to see how to solve this. In my opinion, we are not saying that it is against the constitution to choose a governor, as someone wants to present it, but rather that he is not elected under the Constitution and in accordance with the law and in the way that it is foreseen. For those who swear to democracy, democracy is a procedure, a procedure to adopt certain acts. No matter how complicated or difficult or how long it takes, the procedure exists so that we don't have a dictatorship. In dictatorship everything is brought quickly. One man wonders, and everything is resolved by a brief procedure. That is why dictatorships, however much some have liked them and no matter how many they have conducted in this congregation, are not something that should be similar to a democratic state. That is why the procedure exists, as well as the procedure that 126 MPs must sit in the Assembly for this to be the Assembly, not some association of citizens to be appointed by Kori Udovicki. That's why this procedure is not respected, and that's why this act is extremely controversial and we're putting it out of force. Unlike those who say that this is a perfect act by the very passing of time and that this choice is perfect, I still cannot call on some Spanish people quoted here, but yesterday we called on Slobodan Jovanovic, and today we will call on Valtazar Bogisic, "The coat of arms, the time does not correct". This act, which was created as a flaw in its very beginning, i.e. it was not chosen by Kori Udovici, cannot heal time and, as Mr Jovanovic said, cannot convalitate this decision. We're talking about another fact here, and if you're saying that correcting an illegal action, and such objections were, or one illegal act, retroactiveness, is then punishing a murderer retroactively because that action happened earlier. Of course not, and it's just justice, and here's the justice to put such a decision, against the procedure, out of force. We're talking about it today. We have a situation to say that we're putting aside a decision that doesn't exist. The decision may not even exist from a legal position because it has not reached a sufficient number of MPs, but the decision is published in the "Official List" and produces a legal fact. The decision to print money, that decision makes others, signs bills; whether or not there will be inflation because of the new governor, I don't know, we will see, because of the governor who has been illegally elected, but the euro is definitely growing in relation to the dinar, and that decision produces consequences, although it has been illegally, or unlawfully made. We can't act like that decision in our legal order doesn't exist because it was illegally and illegally made. So we act as if it exists and according to a decision that is illegal, which exists in our order, we can't ask for Cori Widowsky's resolution, because she's not chosen. We would admit that she was elected by law, but she was simply not elected by law and by the Rules of Procedure which apply, and by the Constitution. We deal with that decision in a way that is most painless for the state, in accordance with the principles of legal certainty, which is the constitutional principle. This is to put decisions on the choice of governors and the National Bank Council out of force and that the new leadership of the National Bank will put those decisions taken at the moment when it enters into office and some of them will be put out of force. So there's no retroactiveity here. Putting these decisions out of force will not apply to seven months, how many Kori Udovicki has done these jobs, but will apply to the period from the day of entry into force, and beyond. So there's no retroactiveity here. The principle of legal certainty tells us that we must act in this way, and it stands well in this act. We want to remove the consequences, i.e. the legal fact of the decision that exists, even though it does not exist under the law. So these are some things that we're talking about, which many people want you to keep quiet, to say that stealing isn't stealing if it's justified, that stealing can be legalized if it's a certain time, that thieving can become perfect after seven months. We simply cannot establish double standards here, from opportunity to opportunity. This was stealing. The card was voted by Mrs Arneric, who was at the time on the flight, was voted by Mr Rafaelovic, who said so, and by doing so, any further discussion about whether this choice was perfect or not falling into the water. We don't have that decision and we need to see how to eliminate the consequences. This decision provides for the removal of consequences. We remove them from the moment of the election and beyond, and those responsible for the abuse of the ballot will be held accountable when it is determined. That's what normal countries do. You can steal everything, but for the voice you will especially answer, and this should be a lesson to all of us sitting in the hall, and to those who will be sitting in this congregation in the future, not to do so. So this decision removes the consequences of an illegal, anti-business, anti-constitutional act that has been brought into this assembly and that everyone knows about. I'm just surprised when I see some of them trying -- some of them with subjugation rights, and some of them to make themselves an opposition, and they admit their mistakes -- to say that the correcting of their misdemeanors is not in line with the law. It may say more about them, that sometimes they don't know exactly what they're talking about and what they're doing, but the citizens have given their word about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u147	The People's Messenger Miloljub Albianic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to hear this assembly's call at the very beginning of our work and to hear this roaring new political force called G17 plus. We are here to witness that the most frequently spoken name of the political party is exactly G17 plus and I ask you and I call on you to say that name as often as possible, so that people can hear, to see who you're actually afraid of. So one of the previous MPs mentioned words and called for legal certainty. Is it possible that lies, deceptions, and thefts in the previous period can be legal security? I need to remind you of what was happening during that period from July 22nd to today and how much energy has been invested in proving that the quorum was any and all of the statements fell those days, starting with someone being disgusted and amazed, and a series of lies that went through during that period until the final recognition of December 15th. I will remind you of the exact dates of the two statements of the MPs from the previous call. The first statement was from September 4th, Mr. Rafaelovic – "Someone has abused my card, I have not voted." The second statement was made on December 16th -- "It's clear from the very beginning, I haven't voted. When a lot of work happens, mistakes happen." That's Mrs Arneric's statement. So, in the meantime, the former president of this parliament has also asked for the Constitutional Court's opinion, but not in the manner it suits, with a clear question, whether the constitution was violated by the fact that the quorum was not, but by the question of who was in charge of establishing the quorum. There, the Constitutional Court has returned that very matter to this congregation. So we're here to correct something that the previous Assembly meeting was not able to do, because it was no longer in session, because it did not adopt that mentioned record, and the Assembly was disbanded after all and elections were called. I want to tell you, therefore, the situation that was not a quorum is a clear violation of the Constitution, and as a mathematician, I will remind you that actually the number of MPs under 124 cannot possibly be 126. As for this parliament, it is an opportunity for it to actually begin its work in the best possible way, therefore, by voting against the power of the disputed decision, thereby restoring its reputation and dignity, because G17 plus also favours restoring the reputation and dignity of the institutions in Serbia. Often, and I'll end up the way I started, you mention G17 plus leaders. I'll tell you one common folk language - there's no stealing while Labus is younger.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u149	The word has a People's MP, Branka Bosnjak, and then the last to be reported is MP Vladimir Milankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u150	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to discuss the agenda point when there is such a broad consensus on several things we have heard today from various MPs. I'd like to, for the beginning of this presentation, maybe start with some of our harmonies. So, in the discussions of all the predecessors, we concluded that there was no quorum at the disputed session. We also concluded that all that was happening at the time of the vote, where perhaps, in fact, a whole series of various criminal acts. Also, it is known that no minutes have been adopted from that session. No matter what the minutes have not been adopted, the decision on appointments has been published in "The Official Messenger". It is also not disputed that many of the things that happened at that disputed session are actually a violation of the Constitution. I will only mention some of the possible violations of the Constitution: under Article 12, meaning the abuse of constitutional rights, and by Article 80 decision in the Federal Assembly with a fake quorum. Listen to the predecessors, I come to the conclusion that there are some different, dissonant tones in our views. Now a little something about it. The first and most common question of many speakers was why it hastens to make such a decision, or decision to put a decision out of force. I wonder, when I listen to many predecessors from this pay phone who talk about one, two or more abuses of parliamentary cards, how someone can ask why we are in a hurry when so many card abuses you know and no one has done anything or done anything appropriate to sanction these abuses. Also, I'm surprised that so many speakers come out with the same text. It was like these homework assignments from the Serbian language when one of the best writers is studied, homework is written, and then all students copy it afterwards. Of course, I understand that in each class there are two groups: the left writes the first group and the first task and the first topic, and the second one writes the second theme. So, about here, I am very well-recognizable types of homework and speakers who advocate some good for some future Serbia and look forward to some draft legislation being put on the agenda, and here they are, in fact, wasting time on the citizens of Serbia and of course on us, and this is our job. They spend on Serbian citizens a moment when they will start to improve on the proposal of their laws when they are adopted. So I'd like to point out why the G17 plus party has advocated that this is one of the first things that the Assembly will consider and which will positively resolve and put aside such a decision. So, the previous congregation assembly, by its actions, and perhaps by inaction, broke the Constitution. Isn't it the best way to actually restore credibility to the Assembly and to show citizens that MPs who are honest, responsible are sitting in congregation benches now? Also, I think the best way to adopt these decisions is to show citizens that former MPs who have abused the Assembly and their cards cannot be forgotten; also, to warn everyone in the future that they have no idea that they are misusing their cards. It is indisputable that the Assembly that brings the Constitution must and protects the constitution. We have noted that there is a whole series of violations of the Constitution. We believe that the Assembly of the Sea, as soon as there is any knowledge of it, is to protect the Constitution with its instruments. I think the G17 party, by its request that this be one of the first things to be decided by the Assembly, actually shows what the G17 party's intentions are, in what way it thinks it's using this pay phone and what its state plans are. In that name, I think you'd actually... I expected you wouldn't throw it away, they told me - the lady first went out for a pay phone, she won't throw it away. Nothing, anyway, thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u151	The last registered speaker, MP Vladimir Milankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on this proposal, which is being put out of force by the decisions made by this assembly on July 22nd of last year, sort of took a long time, and all of this seemed a little bit more like pre-election speeches, was a little bit used to accuse other parties. I think we should be brief and I'll tell you what impressed me in this House; it's that I've heard that in the last term, and even in some previous councils, in 1995, in 1996, there was theft in this House. I can't understand it, and it's absolutely incomprehensible to me that it didn't adequately respond at this moment, that no one wanted to correct those controversial decisions. I've been here two weeks, I'm sitting, but I'm amazed that there just wasn't so much reason, so much honor and justice that someone corrects the decisions that were made in such a way. On July 22nd, a decision was made and we as a G17 plus, as a parliamentary group, have already made one proposal that puts aside the decision on the choice of governors, because we think it has been made, and it is generally known, as it says in the explanation, in a way that is neither legitimate nor legal, so it is anti-constitutional. In addition to giving its court in the elections, the citizens gave their court in the December 28th elections, and as someone will answer to the investigative authorities, we think it is necessary for this parliament to be determined according to the event. (From the O.R.: Investigation Authorities. ) According to the judicial authorities, I thank you. So we think it is also necessary for parliament to be determined according to that illegal decision. We don't think it's necessary for the Calimer syndrome to rule here, that someone is yelling that this is all an injustice, that what was done was done and that what happened. We think parliament should react and do something. We have proposed this decision because we think it is legally valid and that it corrects some of the injustices that were done in the previous session. On the other hand, I'm asking someone who says there's been an injustice, who's agreed and admitted that that's how the decision was made, to suggest a better solution. I think it's up to him to vote and appeal to these people to vote for our decision. If they don't vote, I think it's okay to find a better solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u153	There are no more registered speakers on the parliamentary lists. The president of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr. Dacic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is clear to all Serbia that Natasa Micic has violated, as well as the entire leadership of the former Assembly (of course, it is likely that the direct perpetrators and people who worked in the assembly service) are not only the Rules of Procedure, but also the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when voting on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. It is clear to all Serbia that there was no quorum. It is clear to all Serbia, because all of you in the Serbian government, when you gather together, have won 20% of the votes that went to the polls; 80% of Serbian citizens who went to these extraordinary parliamentary elections voted against this policy that you have led over the past three years and, besides, against stealing mandates and stealing votes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These are the results of the extraordinary parliamentary elections. It is clear that Mr Tadic's statement and recognition of Neda Arneric fell into the water of the entire Democratic Party's story that Neda Arneric was in parliament. You remember showing plane tickets, remember you were talking about Neda Arneric being here. Mr Rafaelovic also admitted that he was not in the National Assembly Hall when it was voted. Moreover, some Social Democratic Party MPs eventually admitted that they had not participated in the vote. What is very important to us, the SPS parliamentary group has decided not to attend or participate in the vote in the election of governors. No socialists, except for Banet Ivkovic's socialist, false, were in the hall during the vote. The next day, when our former head of the MP club, Zarko Obradovic, asked for a census from Natasa Micic's Assembly, that list was only two months later. Why? Because the document said that our two MPs were in the O.R., making quorum. That's not true. No SPS member was in the O.R. Obviously, it wasn't an accident. What's more important, it was just the final act, the final act of DOS's government. It was just the clearest expression or, if you will, catching in the theft, because some other decisions were also made without a quorum. The SPS asked to examine whether there were quorums and when the Labour Act was passed, and we also asked to examine and whether there was a quorum when voting on the lustration law. Yesterday I was talking about not having to go around asking who's to blame. It is those who sat next to those MPs whose cards were allegedly there and allegedly they were there. When the law on lustration was passed, Branislav Ivkovic allegedly sat next to Ivan Andric of the Civil Union of Serbia and Sinisa Mitrovica of Liberal Serbia. It is clear, then, that it was just another indication that in the past three years it has been ruled by the kidnapping of votes, by kidnapping of mandates. We're not talking at all about whether or not one of us should be looking for a constitutional basis, but broken by what was happening, I'm not going to say by decision, but by what happened that day when Cory Widowsky was elected, article 80 was broken. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 80. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states: "The National Assembly decides by majority of votes at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs." It's 126, ladies and gentlemen. On that day, you all know, you have already publicly admitted all of you who participated in this, there were no 126 MPs. Article 80 has been broken. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who's in charge of caring for constitutionality and legality? Constitutional court. The Constitutional Court replied that there was insufficient relevant information on this matter. I guess there are now, according to Neda Arneric, Mr Rafaelovic, several SDP MPs and two SPS MPs. In accordance with Article 128 of the The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court itself can initiate a procedure for assessing constitutionality and legality. In accordance with Article 130 of the The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when the Constitutional Court finds that the law or other general act, a regulation, does not comply with the Constitution of Serbia, the act ceases to apply on the day of publication of the Constitutional Court's decision. Ladies and gentlemen, not only has there been a theft of mandates and a theft of votes, there has been a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this is an act to undo what was, in fact, the final act of the way of ruling and decision-making without the support of most MPs in parliament. Please, this doesn't mean we should stop questioning who's responsible. This isn't about political responsibility. This isn't just stealing a mandate, this isn't just a violation of the Constitution, this is both a crime and a crime. That is why the SPS has filed criminal charges against those persons and we expect the prosecution to have enough data to bring the process to an end. So, the SPS believes, despite the fact that some actors believe that theft would be legal violence, given that the Constitution was violated, that the Constitutional Court did not respond properly. The SPS will support this decision, which practically puts out of effect the last act and act of the way the DOS has ruled over the past three years. Of course, the act of stealing votes and stealing mandates. Just to say what I said and just now: the SPS has ruled Serbia for ten years. The SPS has always had an absolute majority and support in parliament and has never made decisions by stealing votes, false parliamentary cards, unlike the DOS, which has been held for three years by seizing mandates and stealing votes. That's why, of course, DOS won one-fifth of the votes that went to the polls in these elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u155	The replica was reported by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u156	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Dragan Rafaelovic explained everything about this event for both this speaker and the media, but Mr Dacic did not realize that Dragan Rafaelovic had nothing to confess because he had nothing to confess, but said that someone was using his card at the time of the vote, and he said that when he saw the listing and saw that my name was there. It doesn't matter. It's something else. Many asked me why I was silent, because my name is occasionally mentioned. Believe me, I kept my mouth shut and wondered. I was wondering what my esteemed fellow lawyers were learning at that university, whether the professors were missing some lessons, or whether they were missing those professors' lessons. I mean all the lawyers. You see, in the pre-election campaign, most of the parties, the ones that are now to be made by the government (and some will be in opposition), she said that she would correct what was wrong, that justice would be for everyone, but not for remandism. There will be no rematch. If we've done something wrong here, it's normal to make it right, and I don't understand why the governor can be replaced. Didn't you see that the legislator hadn't predicted, failed to predict that there would be people sitting here who would not choose legally, according to the Constitution, etc. It just didn't occur to anyone that anyone could do it. It never occurred to anyone that people here would act like they were working councils or house counsel. So, Cory Widowsky wasn't chosen, and what's going to be done now is just going to be done and said that she hasn't been chosen, and you can use various legal stunts, as is done in some trials that are, what's happening now and before this, terrible. There's just one more thing I want to say, important. I've never experienced a government that hasn't been formed this way in my life. You don't know who's gonna be in it or what it's gonna look like. This is what those who are full of Serbia's mouth and love for the Serbian people do. I can tell you, first of all, to the party leaders who are going to form that government, to hurry. The set is on the threshold, the peasants don't have a pair, the G17 plus knows it well, the rules should be laid out how wheat, corn, seeds, fertilizers, repromaterials allow people to reach them through the trade of goods and any other options. You can see that the payments for the Serbian Parliament have stopped, and they will also stop paying the premiums. So, gentlemen, party leaders who need to form a government, hurry up the people, there's no time, and that's what we promised them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u157	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I intervene in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and, of course, to address their colleagues with due respect. Mr. Rafaelovic insulted all the people of that profession, the lawyers, at this point, because he probably doesn't know enough about it or knows much about it. I want to tell Mr. Rafaelovic -- what he was saying just showed that he doesn't know what he's making the decision about today and that those who told him to come out and so tell the public don't know what they told him. Namely, you said yourself that Cory Widowsky wasn't chosen. This would mean making a decision with a retroactive fact that there are no legal consequences, and there is no legal fact of its work, but you are just telling the contrary that you will have the power of the general legal act in point 2 of point 2), that your new governor or the National Bank of Serbia Council or any other body will decide what has been the legal force, i.e. legal fact and what is not. You may like it if there are lawyers or no lawyers, but it's good as there are those who can direct you to the Constitution and the laws, Mr. Rafaelovich, no matter how much you like your story. And finally, about three years ago, we were listening to a beautiful story from Mr. Rafaelovich. I think it was a harvest or a sowing. He spoke nicely of Mr Rafaelovic's harvest, talking about what the Serbian Parliament should do about it, but then he spoke as DHSS MP and assured us that it was the best programme in the world, that we could not imagine a better programme. Now it convinces us that the best program in the world in the past year, two or three, is the G17 program. We're just waiting for you to say in two or three years' time that the set or harvest will best be arranged by DS or SPO, Mr. Rafaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u159	Mr. Wolfie, if I'm not mistaken, you're the one who answered the word in the Rules of Procedure. I didn't give a warning to your idea to Mr. Rafael, because my threshold of sensitivity is much lower than yours, and my tolerance threshold is much higher, but that tolerance threshold is not so much higher than the next time you abuse your appearance in the Rules of Procedure I won't give you a warning. I ask you, all the People's Messengers, to take care of it, because it is an abuse of reporting by the Rules of Procedure. No more registered speakers. Let me pre-conceive... Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u160	Dear colleagues, I will not enter the legal story, I have said what I think about it, but I must remind Mr. Vukic: In 1990 Dragan Rafaelovic was really in the SPO, as in my 1945s were in that front against Tito and the Communists; in 2000 I was elected from the Parliament list DOS - Dr. Vojislav Kostunica, 2003. selected from the G17 Plus list - Dr. Miroljub Labus. So, I haven't changed my political conviction, and what some have changed in the meantime, that's their problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u161	Before I conclude a unique search on the motions for a decision whether the proposing representative, MP Goran Paunovic, wants to give the final statement? If not, I conclude a unique search of the motions for decisions. Having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide on amendments submitted to the decisions and proposals for decisions in general in the voting day. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank of Serbia you have received proposals for decisions made by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the opinion was set out by MP Veroljub Arsic, a member of the Committee. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. Have all representatives of the parliamentary groups submitted their lists? I'm asking them to file for word. Consent to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions, noting that the National Assembly will specifically decide on the choice of governors of the National Bank of Serbia, and in particular on the election of president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Does the representative of Proposer Nenad Bogdanovic, chairman of the Finance Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does MP Veroljub Arsic, who has given his opinion, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening here all day in the Assembly about some thefts, counterfeits and abuses. The call for holding this session is the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The assembly was signed by DSS MPs, G17 plus and SP – New Serbia. A decision by the Finance Committee was taken yesterday, February 17th, and a call for the Assembly was handed over to the Serbian Parliament's office on February 14th, without the decision of the Finance Committee. Now I'm asking you here, who advocates justice, for the truth, what's this supposed to mean? Is this supposed to mean that DSS MPs and G17 plus and SP – New Serbia signed the counterfeit because the Finance Committee did not make any decision until yesterday? And with this kind of convocation, you've prejudged the Financial Committee's decision, because those very good lawyers who are telling us about the law here now show us their actions that we shouldn't be doing. What if the Finance Committee didn't make that decision? What if he didn't have a quorum to work with? What if he didn't accept your convocation? You suggested that the Assembly meet and put on the agenda a point that exists only in the air. These are the problems, and that is why I have singled out my opinion on the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u163	Are the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have an amazing thing here. We didn't execute the governor's clearance. We have a governor alive, because you haven't even made a decision to cancel. We've got a governor, you don't have a solution, we're choosing a new governor. That's really scandalous! If only you had waited for the first item of the agenda to be voted out, if you had voted on this decision here, so that you could prepare for the next session a proposal for a new governor, the National Bank of Serbia Council, would not be great, but it would have been partly in accordance with the law. There's no "Z" here. There's nothing. How can you, people, put someone you haven't solved in the place you're setting someone new? We'll have two governors. How is that possible? It doesn't matter to you anyway, she's solved the revolution to do it that way and you don't care. A new government majority can make whatever decision they want, don't worry, don't care what you care about the law, what you care about the Constitution and the laws, you've solved it, and no one alive can do anything to you. This is the most important question. This way, no one can and cannot be serious and responsible in Serbia. This proposal provides staff solutions for those places that have already been filled. We will not particularly enter into the personnel issues of the proposed members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, whether they are members of this party or those political parties. It is obvious that political party membership was a leading factor in setting up members of the Council. So I don't mean to slow down some of them's knowledge and expertise; some don't. But whether it is the independent expert body that should act exactly the opposite of all party policies, or if not the other way around, then in any case independently and independently of all of them. In total contrast to Article 28(1). Law on the National Bank of Serbia... I know that neither this law nor these others nor the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about this new ruling majority, I am not interested, I am not interested, I am saying this primarily because of the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, Article 28, which refers to incompatibility of functions, conflict of interest and termination of functions, has been regulated as the governor of the National Bank ceases to act. That's how the governor of the National Bank of Kori Udovici didn't stop acting at the moment. One more thing to clarify, which I didn't tell you earlier. Speak – it is not legally chosen. No, but it is a posterior that acquired the legality of such a decision. Such a decision has gained legality by publishing in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that is what all the lawyers in this country know. That's what all the lawyers in this room know. Now you want us to choose someone else next to a living governor without permission. There's a lot in this country! But now I call on Article 2 which has nothing to do with it; who can't be governor, vice governor and member of the National Bank of Serbia Council. The governor, vice governor and member of the National Bank of Serbia Council cannot be someone who is an MP in the National Assembly (no), a member of the Government (no), a political organisation (yes). Although, they say – Jelasic is not much of a official, he is there president of the Economic Council or member of the Economic Council... Not anymore. There's something else I specifically wanted to point out. It's not union organisations either, the unions would take it out with a simple stick, especially the workers of those banks that they fired in the previous period and that they destroyed. There's something else. They can't even be foreign bank associates, and Mr Jelasic is not an outside partner of a bank, but we are informed on a major information show on state television in Dnevnik at 7:30 and in all other information shows that Mr Jelasic was appointed as HVB bank deputy director a few days ago. It's the bank that's known for more, but we'll talk about it on the second call, what it's famous for, and why it's important, especially its Hungarian exposition, and there are Virgin Islands, Marshall and many others. The question is asked, and if Mr. Jelasic says now, excuse me, I resigned, or – I'm no longer the Deputy Director of HVB Bank, I'm not doing that job anymore from the moment you choose me to the place where someone who performs that function, I don't know how you're going to do it, how you're going to own it, unless you go back to those heroic means as you did it on October 5th and 6th and another day after those dates. So, the question arises in what position would the bank be whose deputy director was until yesterday, which gave him a high post at the time he was left without the state office of Vice Governor. Will she be privileged? Will there be a different relationship with her than with some other banks? Why so far there has been a different relationship to some other banks, such as the Hypo Bank. For what? How is it possible that such a person, from that position, could be directly brought to the post of governor of the National Bank of Serbia, contrary to Article 28. Law on the National Bank of Serbia? You have to interpret this law in this way. So, at the moment of submitting your proposal to the anti-business office, as Mr. Arsic said, we are not informed at all that he is no longer the Deputy Director of the HVB Bank; this would probably be important information, as was extremely important that he was elected to that place, i.e. set up. So, he'll only do it if he gets this function by any chance. It's a classic conflict of interest. You can't find a better example of conflict of interest. It's impossible to find a better example. Not only is it contrary to this law, but it is also contrary to the law that you intend to pass, at least that's how you boasted in the election campaign, or you forgot about your election promises. We have total legal chaos in Serbia, with the guilt of many. You are referring, and the Finance Committee proposes, although there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure to do so by the Finance Committee, so it calls for a member of 86 who, once again referring to Article 53, cannot come to this, and then we go to a direct appeal to the law. Come on, guys, let's get this sorted out. Come on, settle this legal mess. We could have brought a new Rules of Procedure, which was proposed by the SRS parliamentary group, to be the first item of the agenda, to arrange this matter in the best possible way, and then, in accordance with the laws and Rules of Procedure, we could adopt different acts. Well, then, let's go to what's most important for the people - law on legalization, the law on privatisation, etc. on which there are also proposals in the congregation procedure. That's what Serbian citizens are most interested in, not this -- how to do it and who to explain it to. Here, I ask that one of the lawyers come out of the parliamentary group who suggested this and explain to me just how it is possible not to execute the resolution. So we have a governor. You haven't even made a decision to annul it, no matter how illegal and unconstitutional. We didn't vote, people, it wasn't published in the official messenger, so there's no legal force for that decision, it's not important. Tell me how you think you can make a decision and convince the MPs here to vote for the election of new leadership when we have the current leadership, when we have both the governor and the NBS Council. Well, that's totally amazing. It's legally absolutely impossible. I ask the parliamentary majority and those who swore to legalism, the DSS, and these others, to essentially begin to advocate respect... (President: Time. Here I come... to comply with the principles of legality, to comply with laws and other general acts, including sublegal legal acts with higher laws in the hierarchy of legal norms or the Constitution, as a lex superior, as the highest legal act, because otherwise we will have a completely unsettled situation and complete chaos. The only political motive for this is, therefore, blackmailing before the debate and agreement on the government, we want to set up our people and nothing else, to take over financial institutions and organisations. Legally arranged matter is not here. On the right of a based request or no motion for a decision. And there is no one in this congregation who can explain and explain. I call on you to withdraw this proposal because it is the only possible way for the Assembly to return the right, laws and respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u165	Before I go any further, it is my duty, as President of the Assembly, to give an answer, i.e. I'll meet the MPs during the session. It seems Mr. Wolfie has a problem understanding the course of this session. Of course, it will not vote today for the election of governors, presidents and members of the NBS Council before voting on the previous agenda. So, of course, he will not be elected to the second governor, but at the end and after the publication in the Official Messenger, that is, a vote will be held on this second item of the agenda. So much for the course of the session This was information, no discussion of the information about the course of the session. [[Employer Vukic seeks a replica due to an incorrect interpretation of his exposure.]] Here you go, Mr. Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u166	I'm going to start right off with this problem. We are in a situation today to discuss the election of a new governor of the NBS without having been resolved before. We are not talking about having to vote right now, and it is true that the vote will be held only after the resolution vote has been held, or that the decision to elect the governor of the NBS is out of force, and the unnatural situation is that we are discussing it today, and that the current governor has not yet been removed or relieved of his duties. With this in mind, we don't have too many arguments to give because it's perfectly logical that this is an illogical situation, but if we have to discuss it, we have to kind of underline the important places we're facing today, given the proposal to elect the governors of the NBS, president and members of the NBS Council. Several times in these discussions yesterday was mentioned the fact that the order of moves in the work of the Assembly is not good and that this item of the agenda points to too much haste and perhaps rusty intentions. I must really ask the public the question, as well as the G17 Plus MPs, of the current parliamentary majority DSS, SPO, New Serbia and the SPS, was it illogical that we had a session of this parliament, above all, a law on conflict of interest? Wouldn't it make more sense if we had passed that law as one of the most important reform laws... If we were wrong not to pass a conflict of interest law, you don't have to repeat our mistake. [[Sagar.]] There is no reason, gentlemen, to repeat our mistake and that is the most wrong argument you can make today. I'll give you a very simple explanation, because the haste in the choice of governors obviously speaks of a drastic conflict of interest, not only when it comes to the governor, but also of the President of the Council. I'll give you a few reasons. We heard a while ago Mr. Wolf, and I can agree with a lot of things. I'd understand this applause if we were in a child's parliament, but we're here to discuss the argument, to discuss what's based on the truth, and what's based on a lie. [[Applause]] Let's see, Vojin Bjelica, ladies and gentlemen, was a senior SPS official, who was the chairman of the SPS District Committee, was one of the key people of that party in Vojvodina, Vojin Bjelica is the first man of the Novosadska Banka, a business bank, which is now in the business banking system in Serbia. Radovan Jelasic is one of the key people of the HVB bank, also a business bank operating today under our current positive banking system law, and now the question is who will decide who will decide the fate of the Novosadska and HVB banks as soon as possible. As soon as these people, possibly with the congregation majority elected, will be decided by those who have an interest in the banks in which they worked until yesterday, in better positions, privileged to do good business; and who can guarantee that they in their work at the Board of Governors or as governor of the Central Bank will be objective. No one can guarantee it. I remind you, the Board of Governors is making decisions on business bank licenses. People from the Board of Governors can close down some business bank, they can prevent yesterday's competition from reaching results, competition from the Novosada Bank or the HVB Bank. This proposal is really completely illogical. These personal solutions, both of them, are illogical and show that we have to seriously consider the consequences of such a proposal. When I tell you today that it is primarily necessary to pass a law on conflict of interest, and then to run for individual political party officials in certain places, key places that define the financial authority in this country or other key positions, then it is absolutely logical and then the question arises why today's parliamentary majority did not today insist on adopting one such law on conflict of interest, when it is practically prepared and almost ready for adoption, because it would directly produce that Mr Jelasic, who is a member of G17 plus, might not be able to do so on this basis, and not just because one of the key managers of the HVB bank, would become governor of the National Bank. It's very serious this topic, these are principled things, and if we go the wrong way at the very beginning, then the question is what will be the consequences of our further work. If the G17 Plus Group has an argument more in the sphere of emotion and justice, because there was a missing decision on the election of Kori Udovici in that there was no quorum, I say once again, a proposal to put the governor of G17 plus all of us in doubt or in a dilemma that is real intent. You can tell about Kora Udovicki in different ways to judge, but Kori Udovicki was not a member of any party. And the function of governors is desirable to be departed, but not only is it desirable but even the law is such that it does not promote party membership of the governor of the National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, my and the proposal of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is to withdraw this proposal from the session, to pass laws that in a different way will regulate the legal system and the work of this Parliament, and one of these laws is a law on conflict of interest; to deprive the doubt of a future eventually elected governor who is his intention and his function and that he has a conflict of interest, because it will not be possible in the coming period to defend himself against an attack that will be based on arguments, and very strong arguments; and to stabilise institutions. If we all work together, and I have the impression that we intend to raise the authority of the institution of Parliament, there is no reason not to do so with the institution of the National Bank and to define the competences of each institution correctly. When it comes to the motion to repeal the decision to elect the governor of the National Bank, one fact is constantly being passed, which is that by making such a decision, the Serbian Parliament exceeds its own responsibilities; they end with the law being passed, and making decisions that have a retroactive fact violates independence or some kind of sovereignty of the National Bank of Serbia. For normal society, it's dangerous, because a bank that's not independent, I mean the National Bank, is subject to political instrumentalization. We've had this before, and we've already participated in this story before 2000. It's very dangerous for our monetary system, and it's especially important for the governor to be an independent person. There are companies in which he is elected for a significantly longer period than the government is elected, so as not to depend on the influence of the political structure. If the governor has no independence, we will have a permanent policy impact on decisions in the monetary sphere, a constant threat to inflation growth or the printing of money or interventions in the work of business banks, and banks are the essence of our business, i.e. our business base. Once again, I ask you to consider putting this decision or this item on the agenda, as well as the previous one, in a way, ad act. The previous cannot, but this may still be able to withdraw from the procedure, so as not to produce harmful consequences in the future, to contribute to the stability of the institutions. That's what we all promised during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u167	The word is Alexander Vucic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u168	I answered, Mr. President, because of the way you spoke to me, contrary to the position of 2nd Article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Speaking of which, it's true that you take care of a lot of things and that's why I'm surprised that it's in line with Article 78. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly did not provide for a different agenda of this session. You know exactly what I mean, and I may not have been very specific to my mind, but I certainly knew, and I shouldn't be particularly smart to let you know, that we're not going to vote for the second item of the agenda right now, so in three days' time, vote for the first item of the agenda. I don't think it's right for you to address any MP in this way, or even those citizens who don't know anything about the functioning of the National Assembly, because even they understand it well enough. I think I'm gonna tell you one more time how right I was about what I was talking about. We now have this item on the agenda, and we don't even know if we're going to adopt the first one, no matter how illegal it is. You're not here to guess if there's going to be a congregation majority for it or not. If there is no congregation majority for it, and that congregation majority can change until the day of the vote, then why are we talking about this? What are we discussing? Which is why we're going to have a five-hour debate, plus everything that goes with the replicas, the heads of the parliamentary groups, etc., if there is no such decision? That's what I was talking about, Mr. President of the Assembly, and you understood me well, I was well understood by the citizens of Serbia. So if the first item is not voted - the decision to put out of force, whatever it is, if that decision is not voted on, then how can we go to the choice of governors and members of the National Bank of Serbia? I'm asking the lawyers in this room who suggested it, to explain it to me. Let's have one come out and tell me that. I ask Mr. Michael, he's a lawyer, and I know he agrees with me just can't say, but I know he agrees. I know that's what every lawyer in this room thinks, and everybody knows, but everybody now says -- what we care about, we have most of it, we're the government, we can do anything we want and what we care about rights, laws and the Constitution. There's no one in this room who'll come out and say this isn't true. We had similar examples in the last term. Not like this, but similar. The same thing we pointed out to DOS authorities back then, and they looked at us, and they laughed. They say, "You little ones, there are 23 of you, whatever you wish to do, what you are saying here. That's why we're 82 now, and after the next election, it'll be 132.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u169	The word has Mr. Michael's, a double replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u170	I'm not going to replicate to Mr. Wolf. I agree with one of him, that we disagree. That's what I agree with you, and it's not the first time or the last time, and that's the situation, and that's the situation where we'll probably get along. It's just like that and that's how Parliament works, at least we'll do everything, and that's where we'll agree, Mr. Wolfie, that's how Parliament works. I will begin my replica with Mr Tadic's words that we have a situation here. It's true, we have a situation here to correct your misdemeanors, Mr. Tadic, your thefts and your abuses. You have brought parliament into this situation to correct your screw-ups and this is what we are talking about here today and that is why returning some of the institutions to the system, to the law, to the rule of law, to our interest and our situation today. Don't teach us how to build a legal state. You could have shown us, but you didn't. You built a dictatorship in this congregation. We're here to discuss the fact and truth that you had a fight with a long time ago. In this assembly of facts and truth in your time -- you were not then an MP in this assembly, but you were a representative of the party that created and led this assembly -- never were they a means of persuasion, but cards and all other means of persuasion: warnings, financial penalties, those were the funds that you used in this assembly. We can't talk to you about facts and truth that way. When you talk about how we're going to work in the future, you start with how you've done and you think that if you've stolen and violated the laws that we're going to do the same. Well, we won't. Don't take your own steps and take your own steps. That's not how we did it when we were with you for six months in 2001, when we were in opposition and when we agreed by some laws and agreed, and when we didn't get along, so we won't work tomorrow when, God, next week, we form the Serbian Government in this assembly. You have a means of control. You have the chairman of the Finance Committee, who has the opportunity to control the work of the National Bank of Serbia. Your fear that we may reveal, and your obstruction of the formation of a new government, what has been happening in the last seven months at the National Bank of Serbia in the last three years is extremely justified. I understand why you're afraid, but the law will be respected and applied to everyone in this room and to everyone outside this room. There will be no conflict of interest here, because gentlemen will not work two jobs, but they will do one or more jobs, but I am surprised by your insistence that the governor of the National Bank and members of the National Bank Council should be people who have no banking experience, who are taboos for banking business, and that such people should lead the institution and be the most responsible for the banking system in the state and for the stability of our money. I'm surprised that's how you want to arrange the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u171	There's no replica on the replica. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u172	Dear President, the Rules of Procedure, article 100, has been injured, which says that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the Parliament; and, in the other position, the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Mr. Michael said that I had separated from the truth a long time ago, which in translated meaning should be, I guess, that I'm lying. Mr. Michael, I was just talking about a conflict of interest in electing the governor of the National Bank and President of the Board of Governors. I wasn't talking about counterfeiting the quorum or stealing votes at all, as you say. It is obvious that there will be a long way to go in this assembly when we discuss agricultural laws to mention the quorum for the choice of governors, when we talk about the law on education - the quorum for the choice of governors. I don't mind that political tactics. We admitted our mistake, and you just keep...
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u173	Mr. Tadic, you, like Mr. Vukic, are abused by reporting to the Rules of Procedure to do what you have no right to do, which is to give a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u174	That's right, but, Mr. President, you're required as chairman... (President: Please take care of this account. )......................................................................................................... Warn these congregations of the Messengers when he insults the other Messenger not to do so. So, if you have an obligation, you must fulfill it, as is true for every other MP in this House. So we were talking about a conflict of interest, and we weren't talking about mistakes in the election of governors, but we were talking about why someone can't stop their interest at the moment when he stops being the head of a bank and tomorrow becomes president of the Board of Governors or possibly governor. It is illogical, in normal countries there are periods of several years, which extends the role in one business system from the role in the state system. This prevents conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u175	Please, because of these two situations that we had today, that you really don't abuse, and that applies to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, to report to the Rules of Procedure to do what you have no right to do, which is to replicate. Furthermore, without warning, I'll make warnings. I think these warnings are enough for today. Replica, since it was about the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mihajlov, then Mr. Dacic, then the replica of the report to the Rules of Procedure. Same for the replica? Okay. I have to give my reasons first, since I've been objected to breaking the Rules of Procedure. I didn't find anything offensive in the words that someone broke up with the truth. If such an attitude is not permitted in this congregation, I do not know what will be allowed in this congregation. The Management Board may, of course, declare that, if you consider it necessary. If the Administrative Committee declares that the words are forbidden - to break up with the truth, in this assembly, then I will accept that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. Replica, Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Michael's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u176	I'm trying to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I answered the line regarding Mr Tadic's words, where he mentioned the SPS. Mr. Tadic said that Vojin Bijelic, which is true, we are proud to point that out, was a member of the SPS. He's a professor of the University and a respected expert in this area, monetary policy. It is true, too, that Mr. White, and unfortunately, after 5 October 2000, he left the SPS. If I'm already talking about it, then the Democratic Party, which has great experience with its former members, should take care of it best, as Mr. Kostunica was also vice-president of the Democratic Party and Mr. Labus, vice-president of the Democratic Party, and you, as you know, chose both Dinkic and Jelasic to give Yugoslav citizenship. Also, you know well that in the Democratic Party the high official was both Vladan Batic and many others who contributed greatly to the reproduction of the political scene in Serbia. Also, you didn't mind, as they write newspapers, that a special prosecutor in Serbia also be a former Yugoslav left. Therefore, with all due respect to Mr. Bjelica, he was a member of the SPS, but not anymore. As for the haste, I think the Democratic Party should explain why she was in such a hurry, so she couldn't wait for Neda Arneric to return from her bath and vacation, but should have chosen Kori Udovicki as soon as possible. Also, she knows it well, which is why she did it then, with clear knowledge that there was no quorum and everyone in the Democratic Party's parliamentary group knew that when decisions were made. I'm just here to say that you don't abuse the SPS in your mutual accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u177	Replica, Mr. Mijahlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u178	Mr Tadic, perhaps you are not personally responsible for what happened back then in the Serbian Parliament, you did not sit in that assembly. In this assembly you are the personification of the Democratic Party and you are responsible for what MPs of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party were doing in the assembly at the time. Whether you admit it or not, you have to take responsibility for what your predecessors in this assembly have done, as I bear responsibility for what DSS MPs have done and what the DSS is doing. It just can't get away from it. You are the vice president of the party and you bear the responsibility and political consequences of the party's work. You may not have personally convinced us that Neda Arneric was in the Serbian Parliament, but many have made Serbian citizens not know and do not believe their eyes, that it is black, that white is black, that Bodrum is actually not a place here in the Serbian Parliament and that it can be teleported or how to move Neda Arneric here to vote. That was what convinced us until the moment you went out with extreme responsibility and said Neda Arneric was not in the Serbian Parliament. Why is it so hard to say when we talk about you fighting with the truth? You escaped today in this assembly debate to say - yes, the DS decision on the election of governors was made with one card by Neda Arneric, who someone took or made a card while she was on vacation in Bodrum. You clearly did not say that about this congregation speaker. You've been avoiding saying that. Are you ashamed of it - probably yes. You're ashamed of this whole parliament. The fact that you've admitted it doesn't justify you and it can't be an excuse and running away from the responsibility that each of us in this House has for his own actions and for the word given. Simply, this kind of controversy, if you think it is offensive - to break up or argue with the truth in the case of the governor and Neda Arnerić, it is quite appropriate to me, because the whole truth is that the card has been misused, that the voice has been stolen. There's no dilemma. If that's offensive, I don't know how else to qualify for lying and stealing in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u179	Can we continue the debate with the president of the parliamentary groups? Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If we don't, we're going to get a list of registered MPs. The People's Messenger Milko Stimac has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u180	Dearly beloved, for the second time today, since the chairman of the Finance Committee, whose job this would be, there is Mr Bogdanovic, but it seems to me, however, that he took an opinion on the Committee when we voted on this point. I'll take it upon myself to present the candidates for governor, president and members of the National Bank Council. Our proposal for governor is Mr. Radovan Jelasic, a man whose personal and professional qualities have nothing negative to say about. By his work so far and as a consultant at the world's famous firm Mekenzi or at Deutsche Bank, and as a banker and as a vice governor, he has shown that, above all, he is determined, determined, thorough, extremely safe and that he deserves to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia by all criteria. When it comes to proposals for the president and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council, you have already seen from the materials that you have received that our proposal is for the President of the Council to be Professor. Army White, Doctor of Economic Sciences. Lectures in banking and finance, international banking, and in regular and postgraduate studies, is an expert in monetary economy and banking, he wrote eight university textbooks. So far, what is particularly important and which we have managed to draw up this list of proposals has been carrying out a number of responsible duties both in the economy and in banking, which means that in our work, in our experience, it can unite what it knows by working in the real sector in the economy and what it knows about banking and also in the theoretical domain. Here is the full list of functions of Professor Bjelica, from the director of the economic and financial sector "PIK" Vrbas in Vrbas, all the way to the Director General of the National Bank in Novi Sad. It should be noted that, for example, he participated three times in the session of the International Fund Assembly, that he was the president of the Union of Economists of Yugoslavia, the chairman of the Management Board of the Association of banks of Yugoslavia, etc. It's a really impressive list of references. He's not a member of any political party or group, lives in Novi Sad at the moment. Our next proposal for a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council is Professor Daniel Florist. He doctored the economy. In a truly impressive professional biography, what should be pointed out, according to us, was that he was a member of Professor Avramovic's expert team on the project of monetary reconstruction and stabilisation of the Yugoslav economy. You will remember in 1994 and the success that this team had in stabilising, practically, in stopping that devastating hyperinflation and further stabilising financial and economic flows. Our next proposal is Professor. Nebojsa Janiciević. Also, I believe you've already received a copy of your biography. I wouldn't stick to all the details: elementary school, high school, where he was born, etc. What's important is that he doctored, that he's a doctor of economic science, that he has great experience in the real sector in the economy, especially when it comes to restructuring businesses. You can see that his own doctoral dissertation is the concept of organization and transformation of businesses. Fulbright is a two-time scholarship student, more abroad and with great experience in domestic economy. Once again, it is extremely important that in one establishment such as the National Bank of Serbia, which is key to the financial and economic system, a man who understands and in the micro-economy is sitting in its Council, in the functioning of the company, and which can affect decision-making at the National Bank of Serbia from that point on. You also received a full list of papers, a full page of published books, papers and articles from Professor Janićijevic. Followed by Mr. Dushan Dobromirov's biography. At this point, Mr. Dusan Dobromirov is the director of the New Sad Production Stock Exchange. With Mr. Dobromirov's proposal, we managed to tie his professional career to financial derivatives, i.e. trading in future contracts. It's very important for our economy. Let me remind you that one quarter of our social product is directly dependent on agriculture. When you add to that all those industries that are indirectly dependent, we get more than 40% of the figure. So it is extremely important that someone who deals with finance in agriculture, in one such country, in such an economy, be in the National Bank of Serbia Council. Terminal trade, too, except that it needs to enable us to finance agricultural production more efficiently and cheaperly, needs to enable us to have the whole discourse, you remember, for the last three years, whether the dinar has been overrated or underestimated, how much it needs to be, less or more arbitrary estimates or derived from some theoretical concept, actually comes down to the market, because these term contracts are traded and national currencies, which only the market and all market participants are able to say, therefore, market participants, what the value of the national currency is. So, that's another reason why Mr. Dusan was proposed to be in the National Bank Council, since he has experience with future trading. Finally, our proposal is Mr Vladislav Cvetkovic, at this time an assistant at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, who has so far had experience with working at the National Bank of Serbia as an adviser, otherwise he worked on audits at a consulting firm in Belgrade. Then, as shown in the biography itself, he continues with his academic career, at the Department of Finance and Accounting Affairs, on the subject of control and audit. It should be recalled how important this matter is to assess bank operations, because the success of a bank, how it works, properly, incorrectly, successfully, fails, is seen first and foremost when you open its balance. Again, it is necessary to find one such vessel with this knowledge in the National Bank Council. In other words, in this proposal, we wanted to close the whole in a technological, professional sense that the National Bank and Governor of the National Bank in its decision-making can cover everything that the National Bank normally covers, not only the financial, monetary and banking sectors, but everything the situation in the sector reflects on. We believe that these people, by their professional, personal, moral characteristics, deserve to be in these places where we propose them.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u181	As chairman of the board, please. The chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u182	Thank you, I'll be very brief. I think Mr. Squirt should respect my approach to the whole thing. Although I am the chairman of the Finance Committee, I have had serious objections to the man who has been nominated and it was completely illogical for me to come out now and talk praises about Mr Jelasic, when I find it absolutely impossible, in the way the current law requires Mr Jelasic to be a candidate. I'm not entering these conflicts of interest, what else is not fully regulated, but the gentleman is a high-ranking G17 plus, president of the Economic Council, and in the election campaign he was one of the most prominent figures of the G17 plus. Now someone comes and says, "Well, you know, he doesn't have a membership card. We can't lie about whether someone hid his membership card or not. How do we know? The other thing, which is quite clear, I can understand that we have the tactics of denying who ours are. It's probably part of some policy, but Mr. White, I can't support it either, he's a high-ranking SPS official. Whether at some point he hid his card somewhere and lost it, or something happened to him, it's not really our problem to analyze. For me, they weren't candidates that I could support as president of the board. Since that was the case, it would be really rude for me to go out and talk about it. I really didn't want to, but now I've had to react to the call from the previous MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u183	Replica. Then Mr. Dacic, the replica. First Mr. Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u184	To take that name off, Mr. Radovan Jelasic is not a high-ranking G17 plus. He was president of the G17 Plus Economic Council, and I don't think that's a high party function, if that's clear. It's a advisory body that should be owned by every party. I believe it is natural that there are any parties in Serbia, if not, some parties obviously believe it is not, it is their problem. I will also remind you that the Governor of the Bundesbanke is a member of the SPD in Germany and no problem is that he performs a function without conflict of interest, so it is no exception to what is happening with us and let's not make any further interference about it. The National Bank Act doesn't prevent anyone from being a member of a political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u185	Replica, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u186	It won't be hard for me to always react when the SPS is mentioned, because it's my duty as head of the Parliament Club. Mr. Bogdanovic has told the lie again. Mr. White, unfortunately, is not a high-ranking official, nor is he a member of the SPS. I want to add to this that I forgot to mention also the president of the former Democratic Party of Micunovic, who was also yours. I also don't forget to mention those who entered the government as experts and ended up being senior DS officials. There is Mr. Vlahovic, Mr. Djelic, don't just talk about it. Besides, the SPS had several hundred thousand members. You know very well where our former high-ranking officials and who they supported after October 5th, and you also know that most of you had a membership book and a former Communist Union and that it had more party communist standing than I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u187	We're continuing the debate. The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u188	Mr. President, this item of the agenda is, of course, part of a package that, unfortunately for me, has already managed to show all the important features of the parliamentary majority that has been formed in this assembly or may still be formed, but it has made some kind of political decision. It is very worrying that the party G17 plus, as part of this future or current parliamentary majority, ignores some important features of the current political opportunities in Serbia and assumes resolving these problems by resolving the issue of legality or illegality of the decision on the bank's governor and, of course, setting up a new governor. I would remind, above all, the MPs from Mr Labus and Mr Dinkic's party that the EU Commission has postponed its statement on the feasibility study. From our point of view, I hope from the point of view of the Democratic Party, and hopefully G17 plus, that's one of the key state issues. Also, Serbia is in big trouble when it comes to our entry into the Partnership for Peace on the agenda. It's from the Democratic Party's point of view a key state issue, so I wonder if it's a key state issue for the G17 plus party or not. Of course, it's not for the SRS, and it's also legitimate and natural, and that's why we're the antidotes to the Serbian political scene. This political coalition also shows some of its other features here, and if vindictivity will be the main attribute of future policy, it is a sure sign that this policy and this parliamentary majority cannot have a long century. On political inconsistencies, I don't think it's worth spending a word of it, and that politics as a choice of values is completely losing meaning when this parliamentary majority is concerned, because it's made up of parties that don't have the same value, but have no touch points in their core political programmes. But I think, besides all this, it is very important yet, although this has been repeatedly discussed here, to underline the relevant points that are precisely the issue of Mr Jelasic's candidacy. Article 28. The law on the National Bank of Serbia clearly and precisely determines the interference and conditions for the election of governors. We unfortunately have not heard of Mr Jelasic's status at HVB Bank. Mr. Squishy didn't answer that question. On the other hand, we heard some contradictions. Mr. Štimac said Mr. Jelasic is not a member of the G17 Plus party now. If that's true, the question is since he wasn't a member of the G17 Plus party, whether he was a member of that party, if not, whether you kicked him out of the G17 Plus party, or he got out of it himself. It would be very important for this high house to have a clear awareness of these facts, because that, I am confident, will have a significant impact on how MPs will vote. It wouldn't be good if you threw him out so we don't know, so we can't get our decision to focus in a good way. On the other hand, Mr. Paunovic said that Mr. Štimac is still in the G17 plus party, so it is only open to the question whether the seat of the President of the Economic Council is a place that can qualify as a functionor or not, which is a matter of interpretation and may likely come under the impression of the Constitutional Court if it turns out that the court institution finds that such a position in your party can qualify as a function post. The question is also asked Mr. Dobromirov, whether he is a party official G17 plus or not. If so, as referred to in Article 28. The law cannot be held in office at the National Bank Council, as well as Mr. Cvvjetjanin, who is disputed whether or not he is in the DSS, but is undeniable that he was a shadow minister, the DSS finance minister in the shadows. It's bad if breaking the law is the first step of this new coalition, no matter how bad I think about that coalition, and no matter how clear I have the idea that this coalition can't be a long century. At the very end, however much Mr. Bijelica's question was relativized here by those in whose party it was, the issue clearly shows what the SPS's acquisitions are in the new parliamentary majority and falls completely into the water all those claims that the SPS has no profit other than state interest, from supporting the future DSS government, G17 plus, the SPO and New Serbia. Today we are getting proof that the seat of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council is given to the SPS in the name of a fee to support the future government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u189	Ksenija Milivojevic, and Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u190	We're mentioned in the previous speech in at least three contexts, so I'll be on my way to being precise to the end. When it comes to the Study of Performance and the process of Serbia's entry into the European Union, I am very glad that it is mentioned, although it is not a topic here today, so I will try to explain it as briefly as possible, or answer it. Of course, it was the G17 plus that warned, practically last year, that the assessment of the feasibility study would be negative, and for this are two basic reasons: one is that the economic systems of the Member States of the state community are not harmonised, nor has anything been done significantly, and the other is that the conditions are simply not met. So, in order to give a positive assessment of the feasibility study, there are certain conditions that must be met, and I can now ask the Serbian negotiating team at the head of it, I think, at that time, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, who is in charge of European integration, why these conditions are not met, and why these conditions have been waiting to date with both the creation of the Action Plan and the Implementation Study, which will obviously and unfortunately slow down Serbia's entry into the EU to a great extent, i.e. the process of European integration. So we can ask here a question – whether those people who worked on it were professional enough, or not, but I'm not going to ask it, just to stick to the subject. To specify finally, when it comes to Mr Jelasic's membership in G17 plus. So, Mr. Jelasic is a member of the G17 Plus party, is not a G17 Plus official and has resigned as chairman of the G17 Plus Economic Council, just to avoid conflict of interest. What is important under the law is that at the moment of entry into office -- if at all it becomes the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, we will see this, I do not want to prejudge the outcome of the vote in this assembly -- there is no such conflict of interest. Of course he doesn't exist. On the other hand, don't make us remind you how many battery functions were in this country and not at all among the state officials, when no one had thought to endure in the previous other regimes, resignations on various functions, and when that was no obstacle that various state and other functions were being performed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u191	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the SRS does not currently consider the most important issue in Serbia to be our entry into the Partnership for Peace. I'm glad you can't blame the SRS for stopping in our entry into European integration flows. I'm glad you have to accuse each other of that, but I want to tell you what's most important to us and why we might have thrown it to the previous speaker, Mr Petrovic. In fact, we believe that it is the fault of the president of the National Assembly, who, according to article 78, is on the agenda, that key things of the greatest interest to the people and citizens of Serbia are not put on the agenda. We have proposed a debate and a draft resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. The promise of all political parties, except perhaps one political party in this House, was that we would worry and take care of the interests of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. This is not on the agenda, although it was submitted more than a week before the draft law on the election of the president and the Law on the election of MPs by the DSS arrived. On the agenda is neither our law on amendments to the Law on Privatisation; nor our Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. Key laws, what interests Serbian citizens, what people live on, what people most interested in, it had to be found on the agenda, and it was submitted recently and sufficiently before the DSS MPs or some other party now submitted the ruling majority of their proposals. On the other hand, I have to use it now, and it will allow me the chairman, I hope he will be so tolerated, to ask Miss Milivojevic one question. So I'm also giving her a chance for a replica to explain when she says she doesn't want to prejudge the outcome of the vote, whether someone will be elected governor or not. How, Miss Milivojevic, then do you know how the vote will end on the matter of the decision to put aside the decision on the election of the previous governor? How do you prejudge this? Do you have intuition or any ability to return or do I not know who? Well, you know you're gonna vote it, so then we can even move on to this agenda point. Please, and Mr. Markovic, and you, Mr. Paunovic, pull this point from the agenda. It'll be better for you. You'll make points to your political party. People in Serbia will see that you are serious, you are able, even after the criticism of your political opponents, to pull something that is against the agenda. It can't be talked about choosing the governors and the National Bank of Serbia's Council when we have a living governor. You haven't made your decision to cancel. There's no solution to the governor, and you don't want to reconsider what the outcome of the vote will be. And who, in the end line, knows what the outcome of the vote will be? Tomorrow, you go back to being a little Wolf Draskovic or maybe someone from the SPS, or I don't know who, and you can't vote that. So, I'm calling on you to be in accordance with the right -- and you can't tell me that this isn't true, there's no one in the room who can say it's not true, no one, as you've seen, nor did Mr. Michaels want to say it because he knows we're right -- to pull this off from the agenda, to discuss both the Law on election of presidents and the Law on election of MPs, to make a quick appointment of a new emergency session, where you're going to arrange it, so if you want to vote, after this session, in the day of voting, and then go with the election of governors and the NBS Council, so we don't tell you anything after that. I think it's only reasonable, only rational and only acceptable. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u193	Miss Milivojevic, replica, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u194	I have to thank Mr. Vukic and give only one technical correction – of course I cannot even consider a vote on the first item of the agenda, and I thank you for that. And as for the constant replacement of thesis, which you've been pulling since the beginning of this point, I think it's very well explained and very clear, it doesn't matter whether it's nice or not, that there's a debate on agenda points at this point. So I could understand your objection if we were to now conclude the debate on the second item of the agenda and vote. Then you would be absolutely right, and it would be a completely out of line, that is, what you call it - legal violence, and I agree with that, but since we will not vote on this point after the debate is over, but it will be a day for the vote, where the first item of the agenda will be voted first, so decisions to put aside the decisions on the election of governors and the NBS Council, and only when, and only this time to be precise this time, these decisions will be adopted, then, eventually, we will join the vote for the new governor and the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u195	Thank you. Replica, or... That's why I'm asking you. I can ask you, I don't mind, but do you agree, since it's 14 hours in two minutes, if you'll use the first part and proceed. Here you go. [[GROANING]] He's right, for God's sake, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u196	First of all, MPs, what's interesting is what Miss Milivojevic said, I'm using now, those who don't know that everything would be clear, two plus eight minutes, which we still have left. Ms. Milivojevic, you can't say – we are now going to the agenda points, so we will vote in a special day for the vote, first for the first item, then for the second item of the agenda, because the vote of the first item of the agenda is condio sin quo non (condio sin luja non) for the debate on the second item of the agenda. We can't, my people, so we're here discussing something we may not vote on! Well, we're wasting time, wasting taxpayers' money. So we distract the public, we annoy the citizens of Serbia with each other's arguments, debates, and I don't know what, and this agenda may not be on the table at all, just because you're impatient. Just because it's hard for you to wait for the next extraordinary session. Because you're in a hurry. Well, people, vote the first item of the agenda, so we can go to the second point of the agenda, so after the first item of the agenda, we can discuss it. You didn't vote the first item of the agenda, you didn't make that decision. There is no debate on the second item of the agenda. That's why I'm calling you and I know you understand. I know you know what I'm talking about, because this is understood by a small child, every child in Serbia understands this -- take that decision, make a reasonable move. There's no man in Serbia who doesn't understand this. Show both your human and political size, show that you are not what your political opponents are showing you. The other eight minutes, I'll continue after my break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u197	You're welcome. You've got eight minutes and three seconds, it's time to take advantage of everything. Please continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u198	Please insert your cards to determine the quorum. Mr. Vukic continues his presentation, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u199	I thank Mr. Mikhailovich. I'm the deputy president of the parliamentary group. I would like to now, as I hope that with enough arguments I have made an appeal and a call to the G17 Plus MP to withdraw this proposal from the agenda, wait for the first next session and then put it on the agenda, because then there will be some kind of -- such legal basis for voting people in the leading seats of the National Bank of Serbia. I brought here a copy of Mr Jelasic's interview, a recent copy, to return you to Serbia's political history. I brought a copy of his interview with B92 radio on February 17th, 2004. Here's what Mr. Jelasic says, and then I'll read it to you more precisely, quote what it says in Article 28. Law on the National Bank of Serbia. To the question of journalists – you are currently HVB Bank Director for Serbia, Mr Jelasic answers: "No, I am currently employed in the bank, but as far as the director's seat is concerned, of course, it depends on the outcome of the election for the governor." Wait, guys, is he playing, is he kidding with the people, with the citizens of Serbia? Is he, not to say, distracting the entire Serbian people and all the citizens of this country? Depending on whether he is elected, he will be or won't be the director, and he will remain employed anyway, and now let's not make an analogy between his employment at HVB Bank and his membership in the political party G17 plus. If possible, therefore, if it is said in the law and it clearly states that you have to be a G17 plus official, so his party colleagues here convince us that he is not a functionary, he is only a member, we can say yes or no, we agree or disagree, but here we do not agree or disagree, because the law says that the governor cannot be a member of the board of directors or supervisory board, external bank associate, other financial organisations and audit organisations. Even an outside bank associate can't be. He openly says yes, I'm busy. It does not occur to him, and at a time when he has already been declared a candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia. So, he's demeaning, and even by his behavior, he's trying to humiliate every citizen of Serbia and tell him -- yes, I'm the one who can do whatever he wants, I can do whatever I want, and you're the ones who can't do anything to me. Such behavior cannot be allowed. This is something that's totally illegal, but totally illegal. Says Mr. Jelasic, listen to an excuse for conflict of interest. I quote his words, so there's no confusion. A very precise transcript was downloaded from site B92: "If I had spent more days in Vienna than in Belgrade these two weeks, as far as I was at HVB Bank. So, as far as the actual deal is concerned, I've been with one of my clients for the past two weeks." That's really amazing. People are laughing, and a lot of people would cry, and that man... I hope you haven't heard, Mr. Chairman, because I believe you would have responded to this terrifying attack by the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs. I don't want to score points and repeat what you said, because I hope you'll never say it again. As for compliance with the law or not, MPs G17 plus obviously don't have much to worry about, and neither does the candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia worry much about it. Do you know the key reasons why he accepts these functions? The man says it again, I'm not making it up. He says the first reason he stayed is to read, not to make it up: "I have a moral obligation to all those people who left the People's Bank with me." That's the first reason. Another reason is the obligation to his colleagues, according to Mladjan Dinkic, Professor Labus and other people who will work on these reforms. That's his two reasons. Where is the reason to help the citizens of Serbia, to do something for this country? It doesn't exist, it doesn't interest him. He has private reasons and doesn't care much about it. We will not attack you and attack him with an argument whether his name is Markija Lasit or Radovan Jelasic, because I know that you will tell me – since you, Vukic, are not in favour of the arrival of a Serb from Hungary or from any other part of our country, but it is interesting that after receiving citizenship, Mr Jelasic, 6 December 2000, was signed by the then federal interior minister, Mr Zivkovic, so only 13 days after that, that man became the vice governor of the National Bank. Let's see what it says in Mr Jelasic's biography, except fantastic data on where he worked and how he studied, and everyone has such a curriculum of vite (curriculum vitae). I must say, it is interesting that we did not read how and why four of the largest Serbian banks were destroyed and who made such a political decision. How and how it was formed with both the capital and how recapitalisations were made at the National Savings Bank. What does that recommend for a place like that? Nothing. What is interesting, too, in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, is clearly said when we talk about people from the National Bank of Serbia's Council that they cannot be officials of political organisations. Are you going to tell me or how you're going to interpret a member of the law by which you're going to tell me that the minister of finance in the shadow government is not a member of the political party? If you could do me such an interpretation, it would be good. So, personally, I respect Mr. Florist, I have nothing against him, he never attacked or said anything bad about the SRS. I don't understand what's funny about all this, but don't worry, next time you'll laugh even more after the election, but you'll watch it from the balcony, not from here in the Assembly Hall, so don't worry about it. The problem with Mr. Florist is that he is a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia and can't as a DSS official, as well as others who are G17 officials, such as Mr. Dobromirov, so he will say again, he is not a functioner, perhaps a member or not a member. You can interpret it any way you like. It is important for Serbian citizens to hear and finally find out, so you may convince them that Radovan Jelasic is not close to G17 either or not a member or perhaps one of the best friends of G17's most senior leadership. So it's a direct violation of the law. This is the most direct violation of the law, so someone has to sanction it, who else if they don't want MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I call upon the MPs, let them forget about the ruling majority, let them now think about the respect of the law. I also call on the SPS MPs not to think this time about their promises to form the government and what they had agreed in advance, as well as some other MPs in the Serbian Parliament, to vote on their conscience and to vote in accordance with law and justice, so they will be clear that they liked or not Mr Jelasic, or any representative of the National Bank of Serbia Council, cannot and should not get the green light from the National Assembly, for the simple reason that it is contrary to the Law... (Chairman: Please, time.) )......................................................................................................... about the National Bank of Serbia. I thank you, Mr. Mihailovic, for your patience, I only wish those in power had more confidence and had allowed Gordani Pop-Lazic to lead the session, and I think that even the elemental order, even the congregation logic requires it. It represents 82 MPs, and you represent only 22. It speaks of how much trust the new ruling majority has in its political opponents and in its opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u200	Here you go, Mr. Paunovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u201	I would like to remind the MPs that it is necessary not to play with the National Bank of Serbia. Some played too much with the National Bank and we had chaos, monetary chaos in the last decade. Why Radovan Jelasic? Because he's just part of a team that's managed to get out of this mess and finally establish monetary stability in this country. That's the key reason. We can't experiment with people we're not sure will do their job right. Mr. Jelasic, as the first associate of former governor Mladjan Dinkic, managed to do a lot of things in a very short time. He managed to bring the country's foreign exchange reserves of $360m, which were found, in July of last year to $2.5 billion, that the inflation that was 113% in this country fell to 8.7%; that savings in banks, which did not do their jobs and did not exist in fact, because the savings did not even exist, brought in July to over a billion dollars. These are the results that qualify Mr Jelasic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It's certain we can't take any chances and we can't experiment with a potential governor right now. I think the results he has achieved as a vice governor recommend him for the place and there is no dilemma that Serbian citizens with Radovan Jelasic, as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, will be safe in banks in this country and in their national currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u202	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that a number of MPs in this House are ready to vote in favour of a constitutional and illegal decision in point 1 of today's agenda. The result of the vote will certainly be the illegal choice of a double governor, a double president and a double member of the National Bank Council. We, dear colleagues, have no right to interfere with the judicial branch of power. We've been talking here for two days about something that is currently in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. The fact is, and no one argued that on July 22nd of last year, the Rules of Procedure were violated and that there was a voice theft and that it was an irregular choice by Kori Udovicki. The fact is also that, at that time, the president of Mrs Natasa Micic's Assembly did not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, did not do what was to be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, we in the National Assembly can no longer deal with this problem, but we should leave it to the judicial authorities that they resolve what has been messed up here since then, the so-called Dossier majority, so-called. Most of them. Of course, if they had most of them, there wouldn't be this problem. In addition to all the arguments presented by my colleagues in the SRS, and regarding the decision to put aside the Decision on the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia and the Decision on the election of president and members of the National Bank of Serbia, I would like to point out another point 3. A proposal for this decision. Point 3 says -- this decision takes effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I'm sorry Mr. Martian isn't here, so I turned around, because in the afternoon part of the debate, he tried very ironically to say that Mr. Alexander Vukic doesn't know the Rules of Procedure. You all know it's in the small finger, as well as all Serbian radicals, because we're doing this job seriously, gentlemen, unlike you, legally unlike you. I wanted to explain to Mr. Marsican that what he explained had nothing to do with logic or law, because how can we discuss this point that is currently on the agenda, when this first one was not adopted, em, and when it is adopted must be published in the Official Messenger, and only on the day of the publication takes effect, if it happens to take effect. Anyway, we'll have double organs at the National Bank. Indeed, no less decisions, no more violations of the Constitution and the law. As for this item of the agenda concerning the election of governors of the National Bank, president and members of the Council, it is obviously controversial both in the way of choice and in personal solutions. As far as the choice is concerned, I may be a little surprised that self-proclaimed legalists don't know the law so much and don't know the Constitution, or are knowingly breaking it. Of course, as far as G17 plus is concerned, I'm not very surprised. They're the first time in the National Assembly, and I'm convinced I'm the last one, and because of these two or three months of sitting here, they don't even have to try to learn anything. Like my colleagues, I'm not going to do anything too much with these names. I have another problem -- I don't know what we're going to do when after two or three months we're the majority in this National Assembly, whether we're going to follow this practice that we're going to put off all decisions unconstitutional, as you do and as they did before you in the past. Today, a colleague from G17 plus here publicly admitted what was clear to all of us and this is the condition to discuss the government with Mr. Kostunica, who, however, is still not a mandater and I don't know on what basis he's trying to conclude that government, it was precisely that the governor of the National Bank in the image of Radovan Jelasic, the right hand of Mladjan Dinkic, and that in this way the G17 Plus gentleman ended this task, because their primary goal was to choose the governor of the National Bank, to cover up the National Savings, to forget the bills on the Sea and the Marshall Islands, that the citizens of Serbia, once employed in four major national banks, forget who gave them the cancellations and how they lost their jobs. If you vote these two decisions, the G17 has done its part of the job in this period. Of course, that's why these days we've been listening to G17 plus every day wants everything anyone suggests: they want the SPS, they want the DS, they want the minority government, they want the majority government, they want them to watch, they want what's on the agenda today was the only and the main goal. Something else is interesting. I hope you all remember, at a time when Mladjan Dinkic destroyed and destroyed our large national banks, of course, with Radovan Jelasic, then the federal finance minister from the DSS resigned. I don't know what changed in DSS policy, except for the obvious desire that, thanks to the logic that 53 is larger than 82, they take up a chair in the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u204	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, and let the MP Alexander Vlahovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable parliamentarians, a group of 103 MPs of the National Assembly and the Finance Committee have proposed Mr Radovan Jelasic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The question will be asked what is recommended by Mr Jelasic to this assembly, i.e. to work at the National Bank of Serbia. As you know, it is, above all, his brilliant biography, the exceptional expertise and results he has achieved in his work and solving problems. Also, these are the features of the G17 Plus political party, which is known to solve problems effectively. That's what we've shown in our work so far, and that's what we're going to show in the future. MEPs G17 plus are not in favour of this assembly for barren demagogue discussions, but for an effective solution to the problem. In that sense, I appeal to all the MPs of the people and I agree with the suggestions we have heard here, that the National Assembly has enormous affairs ahead of it. I believe that no rules of procedure can increase the efficiency of this Parliament's work unless there is a political will and responsibility for all of us to solve problems effectively. What was Mr Jelasic doing at the National Bank of Serbia? Along with Mr Dinkic, between 2000 and 2003, he and his team did a number of very critical operations, of great importance to the country's economic system. I'll remind you of a few things. First of all, these are: a campaign to introduce the euro, i.e. replacing 12 currencies that existed in our monetary system for the euro. For one such operation, Slovenia has been preparing for several years and the entire European Union is preparing for training centres for years to replace its own currency for the euro. We have managed to replace the 12 existing currencies of the European Union for the euro, without any consequences, very effectively, within a record period, almost without any preparation, or only a few months. Another very important operation of great importance for this country, which was conducted at the National Bank of Serbia, led by Mr Dinkic and Mr Jelasic, is the transition of payment traffic to business banks, which took place at the 2002 crossing in 2003. You who have been in this assembly for a long time are well aware that the campaign has been under way for ten years, that no parliament, and especially the previous composition of the National Bank of Serbia, has been able to do so for ten years. Every year she was getting ready, and that campaign wasn't done. It was brilliantly performed in a single day at the National Bank of Serbia, led by Mr Dinkic and Mr Jelasic. We don't have a problem with pay traffic. Now we're compatible with the whole world and we've got one efficient pay traffic. Furthermore, a fundamental reform of the banking system has been carried out. There are various comments, related to the abolition of banks, the closure of four major banks, and I have to remind you that these banks were the source of inflation, all kinds of malversions, that these four large banks were on our streets of dinars, foreign exchanges were bought on black, etc. To point, after reforming the banking system, Serbia's banking system employs more employees than it was before the reform. You can check that out and see for yourself. All banks that exist today in the country's financial system are healthy banks. And, one stage that Mr Jelasic will certainly end is the integration of the banking system and the creation of conditions for economic development. So much for that. God forbid anything we transform, we get more people to work. That's a G17 plus feature. If we closed something, we did something new, which hired more people. No one's lost their job, you can check it out and you know it. The result of Mr Jelasic and Mr Dinkic's work at the National Bank of Serbia is as follows: we have macroeconomic stability; thanks to it we have a stable dinar; therefore we have inflation below 10%; thanks to their work we have foreign reserves, I would correct one of the predecessors, which passes $3.5 billion. To answer the thesis that was often heard here in public, few people understand the meaning of foreign reserves. They say foreign reserves are not in function of economic development. On the contrary, foreign exchange reserves are what they are, and the main purpose is to preserve, above all, the stability of the domestic currency, to strengthen the position of liquidity in payment with abroad, thus displaying this basic function of foreign exchange reserves, they are in the function of economic development. There is no way we can place loans from these funds, as someone advocates, so we would break the liquidity position above all. What is covered by the work of Mr Jelasic and Mr Dinkic at the National Bank of Serbia? Fully under control. Let me remind you, before coming to the head of the National Bank of Mr Dinkic and Jelasic, we had dealers on the streets, today we no longer have them or have them in a very marginal form. That's why we have such foreign reserves. We've regained trust in saving banks. The four major banks you mentioned had a zero savings. You all know that. Today, in our banks, we have savings of over a billion dollars in domestic banks. The savings structure is in favour of domestic banks. So we restored the citizens' faith in the banking system. The National Bank of Serbia has given great support, incentives and logistics to pay for old foreign currency savings. So, what was wrong with the previous financial system, the National Bank as the financial system bearer, thanks to the leadership in which Mr Dinkic and Jelasic were in particular headed for the return of old foreign currency savings campaign. The campaign will, hopefully, be completed and it will last successfully. There's a lot more to it. I would mention only if Mr. Jelasic hadn't recommended himself as governor in February this year. As you know, let me remind you, in the G17 campaign plus at the end of last year, we recommended Mr Jelasic as governor and as far as I know from now on, in Serbia, who will be the future governor. So much for that. To avoid further debt, I believe that by choosing Mr Jelasic as governor, we will have macroeconomic stability, trust in the banking system and the central bank, and in this sense citizens can sleep peacefully. I'm sure there won't be things going on at the National Bank in the monetary system that you remember before 2000. So, the new leadership will hopefully, at least as far as this financial sphere is concerned, introduce the country into a stable development.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u206	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic and then by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would like to join the MPs who have previously warned of the procedural problem that exists in the debate on this agenda point. In other words, I really believe that the previous item of the agenda had to be completed before, and then by voting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should have made a statement on the previous point, and then only then would it be possible to consider the proposal for a new governor, or a new council in the National Bank of Serbia, because, as things stand, I really don't think that the Assembly will have the majority to vote on the previous agenda point and then we will needlessly spend five hours considering something that might ultimately be completely useless. I don't want to talk about Mr. Jelasic's personal qualifications. I personally know him, I've worked with him in the previous period and we're in different political positions in no way going to affect my opinion of his qualities. It seems to me that it may have been the only part of the National Bank of Serbia that was truly reformed, which is the part that relates to the supervisory of business banks. Of course, in that part, to do our job really deserves all the praise, I repeat again, no matter what we find ourselves in different political positions. I really hope that the preparation of the proposal for the National Bank Council is not primarily motivated by one political need to replace the previous National Bank Council as soon as possible, or rather, I was hoping that this was not politically motivated, but when I look at the list of candidates proposed for the National Bank Council, then it is almost clear to everyone that this is about the need to make a political shift. I will remind you, the previous National Bank of Serbia Council, which has not yet been amended and which will not be able to be replaced without prior respect for the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, all five members were not members of any political party. Of the five members in the National Bank Council, three are leading monetary experts. If you don't believe it, you can check it out. So Professor Pavle Petrovic is not a member of any political party, Professor Bosko Zivkovic is not a member of any political party, leading expert in business finance Prof. Milorad Ivanišević, Prof. at the Faculty of Economics, he is not a member of any party, Dejan Soskic is not a member of any party and Dr Zoran Popov is not a member of any party. Each of them fully fulfils the conditions to carry out the work of a member of the National Bank Council. What are the conditions? You can find them in article 4. The law on the National Bank of Serbia, which makes it very clear what the tasks of the National Bank of Serbia are. So, that it determines and implements monetary policy, that it independently conducts the policy of the dinar course and with the government's consent to determine the dinar course regime, to preserve and manage foreign reserves, etc. Now, I would like the proposer to explain to me how it is possible for members of the National Bank of Serbia to propose people who are probably top experts in their area, but the area has no touch points with what the National Bank is doing. For example, Professor of Organizational Sciences at the Faculty of Economics or Professor of Macro-Economics, but not a monetaryist, which is necessary for someone to be in the National Bank Council; or Mr. Dobromirov, whom I have indeed, with all my efforts, have not heard until now that he has proved himself, as required by another member of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. So, that the proven expert in this area is what this law requires. Therefore, all these arguments are very clear that this is about the political need to change the National Bank of Serbia as soon as possible. If it is a political need, if the proposal is to improve the work of the National Bank, and I will remind you later on what the National Bank of Serbia has done to Serbia in the past seven months and how the Council, or governor, has "disproved" the objectives of the National Bank, and you will see that it is not, if it is necessary to improve the work of the National Bank of Serbia, then it could remain an existing council, because of these experts, there are no better ones, and they are not members of any political party. The second thing that is very important is the fact that in the last six or seven months, the National Bank of Serbia has been completely depolitised. Unlike previous practice where the National Bank of Serbia held a press conference every week, notifying both the unknown and what is the job of the National Bank, but most often about what is not at all the work of the People's Bank, you haven't had a spectacular press conference organised in the National Bank of Serbia in the past six months, which discuss both construction policy and budgetary policy, and I don't know what other policy. On the contrary, you had two or three times at most that Governor Kori Udovicki, along with her vice-governments and the Council, held a press conference, only when she had something to say about the work of the National Bank of Serbia. In this way, by proposing candidates who are members of political parties and who do not, not all but part of them, need experience and defined qualifications, you will again politicise the National Bank of Serbia, an institution that must be independent and which implies full respect for the procedure defined by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. So this is how you show that it is not about the need for professional improvement of the bodies of the National Bank, but about the need to replace those proposed by the previous government as soon as possible. There's a difference between the previous government and you. We, gentlemen, have suggested the highest quality men to take positions and have not had their own, nor ours, nor any party uniform. On the contrary, we were exclusively guided by the qualifications of these people. I would be very happy to discuss today's qualifications, i.e. people who, by their qualifications, fully deserve to be found in bodies defined by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The other problem that exists here is the problem of conflict of interest. It is true that the Law on the National Bank of Serbia in Article 28 very clearly defines what cannot be members of the National Bank Council, governor and vice governors, and it is true that they are saying by choice that they are delivering a statement of non-conflict interest. Regardless of the procedural error you are making and the five hours we spend here discussing this point that may never be valid for any vote, I believe that together with the names, the biography of the governor's candidate for members of the National Bank Council, we have had to get a statement on whether the gentlemen concerned have interests in banking organisations, in audit organisations, whether they may be employed, whether the owners of private firms etc. The reverse will be toying with the definition of conflicts of interest, i.e. preventing conflicts of interest in Article 28. Law on the National Bank of Serbia. In reverse, it will mean – I am in a reserve position, choose me, and from tomorrow I will no longer be a member of the political party, I am not the director of the Novosadska Banka, I am not the director of the HVB Bank, I am not the owner of the consulting firm, etc., which is the characteristic of the proposed members of the Council and the proposed candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I don't really understand why you're in such a hurry from here. Basically, this story could have been done in a more legal, legitimate and much more objective and serious way. This means, in order to achieve full legitimacy and legality, you have heard that Governor Kori Udovici was already ready to resign; of course, he does not want the governor to be a piece on a political plate in the division of power. He's nowhere in the world, he won't be here either. It is a true struggle for democracy, to preserve the independence of individual organizations, what is the National Bank or what is the judiciary. So, by resigning, the conditions are met to discuss the new governor, members of the Council, and if there is a congregation majority, no big deal. The assembly majority will elect those members of the council to stand behind. It seems much smarter to me that the government was first elected, that the government was discussing the budget, which was overly needed in order to define, among other things, economic policy for 2004. We are almost in the third month of 2004, and we still do not have a memorandum of economic policy adopted by the Assembly. It's only then that we have to solve this problem, which won't escape. If there is a congregation majority, this problem will be solved. Now, we've come to the situation that five hours, and more, we're discussing one item on the agenda, and perhaps beyond that, thanks to the vote on the previous agenda, we realize that we've spent five hours in vain. Only for those who believe that the National Bank of Serbia is responsible for all the good that has happened in the past three years, to say that the old foreign savings have never been paid out of the National Bank of Serbia, but has been paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that whoever paid the old foreign savings, which is the government, did not make good use of it, so almost everyone realized that the National Bank of Serbia paid off the old foreign currency savings. It is true that macroeconomic stability is not only dictated by the policy of the dinar course, but rather by budgetary stability and budgetary policy. It is true that the budgetary policy, a stable policy led by the previous government, was the basis for macroeconomic stability over the past period and the basis for the collapse of inflation. Because, as the macroeconomic stability which is solely based on monetary stability seems, we could see in 1994 in the Avramovic programme that lasted no more than six months until the printing of money started again, precisely because budget policy was unclear and defined so that it did not provide macro-economic stability. Speaking of the programme, Professor Avramovic, to remind the MPs that Professor Pavle Petrovic, who is president of the National Bank of Serbia's Council, was not a member of Professor Avramovic's team, but was the main coordinator of the macroeconomic stability programme. It was a man who was in the previous period and was still president of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Therefore, my proposal to all of you is that this point be withdrawn from the agenda, that it be completed by the previous and voting and other administrative procedures, as already defined by the Rules of Procedure, and only then, if conditions are obtained to discuss the election of a new governor and members of the National Bank of Serbia Council. Speed, at least in these things, was never good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u208	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, and let Nikola Novakovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u209	Since we are practically discussing the extended first item of the agenda, and they can have one common name – how to get to the helm of a two-man who currently does not have a helm. The twin is made of DSS and G17 or their paradigms Kostunica and Labus, and as some likely normal consequence of that, it requires that a steering wheel be found that manages these two, there is also one consequence that should be done quickly, which is likely to be short and short and bad – to master an institution where the funds and money are seemingly held; from there to make pressure to reach the government. It's a completely reverse path, but what's the characteristic of that two. It's a two-man thing that's been working since October 2000. Just to remind you, Labus said a couple of years ago, so Kostunica told him that crisis headquarters are being created, that companies are being conquered. Let's think of some other things. Kostunica also proposed and asked the United Nations to accept the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as the youngest member, not to suspend the decision that we suspended from membership, and so we as new members entered into the process, which is Labus' negotiations on the succession, a bad agreement, and we later went all the way to the Belgrade Agreement, when we lost the state and, behold, both signed the Belgrade Agreement, with Labus breaking it immediately. Let's remember now. In the Labus campaign, Kosovo does not exist as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. (Glasses: Theme.) ) This is all in the context of the topic, in order to understand your daunting of the Serbian public and the political scene by talking about the government's election, and who will be with whom, and who, how can the SDB agree, party to the democratic bloc, and that no one in our immediate environment is interested in what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska. And that's the story... (Glasses: Theme.) )......................................................................................................... Of course it's a theme. It's a natural theme. (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... The chronological and mental problems of the agenda dots cannot be overcome. The rush is on. Legalists should definitely solve the question of who broke into the NBJ with guns. What Mihajlovic said two months ago – if I arrested him immediately, there would be no problems. Let me remind you, the SRS has also requested the resolution of Miroljub Labus in the Federal Assembly. Today some of them are attacking him, they're defending him. We asked for a solution and for a young man named Dinkic, and those who attacked him today then defended him. Then he was an expert, an expert, who would never doctor with his professor. These are the experts from the corner. And to go back to what you say is a topic, your candidates don't meet the conditions, except for the first and initial condition that they have some high school equipment, everything else doesn't meet. No one has proven to me that they have a proper working experience. I agree that the NBS Act isn't good, it's bad, because it didn't make the right distinction where the NBS should be, how much it should be on its own, and on what issues it should be on its own. The Council is more educated as a supervisory board, not as an institution that needs to be involved in some monetary matters. What I am absolutely sure of – only the choice of this council can prevent your candidate for governor from proposing here a new law on NBS, and be sure that it will be the same text of the amended NBJ Act, which has given great authority to the governor of the NBJ, abolished and counciled only one deputy, on the basis of one problematic decision by the Federal Constitutional Court. Of course, the situation will also be used to refer to the NBS in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but everything is left to the law to resolve. What I'm sure of is that Oscar Kovac would never vote for this council and for this governor. I'm absolutely sure of that. I think he's still a member of the SPS. He'd never vote. Why don't you vote? For the simple reason that our National Bank, whether it is called Yugoslavia, is at first Serbia, not run by these governors either. They're taking people from the International Monetary Fund, because they know they're incompetent. They're incompetent, they can't take her. There's this Rory O' Sullivan, he's in control, and that's why the situation happened when Dinkic left and Kori Udovici came, nothing changed. The boss is the same. But today's debate just shows that the financial lobby is much stronger than the political lobby. It's much stronger. Now, I would recommend to the legalists that they only have in mind that they will vote for the candidate they have proposed for governor, who does not know what constitutionality and legality is. He supported his governor, Mladjan Dinkic, who made decisions on the liquidation and bankruptcy of banks, although the federal court annulled and returned it to him. He kept going. He wore it for a man who participated in one auction, so he bought it, I think, and a car and pictures of some of these shut down banks. Yeah. Kori Udovicki can't resign, there's no need, 150 thousand dinars are not to be thrown. Why would she resign? And what you're proposing for the Council, they're just about to enter the NBS, as a result of your intra-party agreement and compromise, to get a little bit of what they can get at, to play some democracy here. You know, the big stuff is rolling, the people are having fun, the MPs are thinking about who, who, who, what store, and what miracles, will first enter the congregation and immediately nervous, would immediately take power. However, not with guns but with identification cards, settlements, etc. You know, that's what you have to say. It probably won't bring any results here, because the practice here is long ago that the argument doesn't play any role, because political and other arrangements are much clearer, but it should be said, because of these citizens who are following this transmission, to understand, there are no experts there. It's picked up everything on the side. There's no expert here. Who's the banking expert? So look at their biographies. If you saw your candidate's biography for governor, he could be a vice governor in Austria or Hungary, in Serbia he couldn't possibly be. He doesn't have a man's work experience. What's up? It says: a summer practice of three months. That's what you wrote. Summer practice of three months, taught a man a swim. The man was in America and, look at the wonderful miracle, the Yugoslav fund educated him there further, preparing for this, not to talk about these Fulbrights, it's known who they are, there are quite a lot of them in this country, as they come, and especially I'll tell you about it. They're gonna be there right now to do this job. [[He speaks to someone in an O.R. whose comment is not heard.]] Right now they're going to do this job, and it's perfectly clear to everyone, everyone. Why the rush? The rush is needed to complete the takeover position. G17 is only interested in money, nothing else. So when Mladjan Dinkic came in, he was breaking in to win the financial institution. They didn't care about the police, or anything else, it's the police's fault when it's raining, when it's the sun, what she intervened or didn't intervene; it's the military's fault for this or that. The National Bank is not guilty, it keeps everything under its control, acts on financial flows and manages life in this country, but the DSS is obviously running away from responsibility and acceptance and this. Accepts that one place, one resort, one entire area, allegedly, to experts. As I recall, Labus is a lawyer, he deals with the economy, Dinkic will never doctor, so be sure of that. Never. Now, ask Professor Hungarian, and let him tell you when he's going to get his doctorate. Never. There's only one vice governor in the National Bank who's got some kind of banking experience. The second is all scattered, everything is scattered to create space for some other banks, to create space for the company's brother-in-law as founders of some banks, not to remind ourselves of those five billion marks, those conversions, the conversions to the euro, and how it's all over and where the kamak went. G17 must win that institution in order to prevent data being released, to prevent criminal proceedings from being conducted for what was done, and therefore consistent fighters, Labus, will never go to the front row, but someone to push out, Kostunica would never go to the front row and the same others to finish this dirty work, so that no one resents him for getting his hands dirty. It's the twin who can't get the helm, and now tell me where they found the common language Democratic Party of Serbia with a large number of members from Kosovo and Metohija, G17 plus who pleads - Kosovo, an independent republic, it's a burden for us. Just please don't be surprised one day, like when Kostunica left the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to leave this Serbia and to inform us with a delay that this country no longer exists. So please don't vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u210	The word has the head of the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Mihajlov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u211	Mr Krasic, the Democratic Party of Serbia has never sought any crisis headquarters. You know who did it and who did it, and Kostunica never gave anyone consent to it. On the contrary, we asked, when we agreed on the Republic elections in 2000, to review all abuses before and after October 5th, and that, if it has not been done in the last three years, would be done now. All abuses will be questioned, be assured. Who left Yugoslavia, who will leave Kosovo, who has left Krajina, not to talk about Bosnia, can talk about it and should certainly talk about it and the citizens of Serbia know it. It's another thing that's interesting. Let's say we heard here now that the previous DOS authorities fell because they had bad marketing, that they didn't fall because they had five billion external trade deficits, which made the sugar affair, which in the last few months has increased by six euro dinars in Serbia. Could it be an anti-inflation fight or simply a new inflation swing that is being prepared under this leadership of the National Bank of Serbia or has fallen because of some other things. So she fell for bad marketing. Some Serbian citizens themselves estimate whether they are empty banknotes, street workers, a bad market, or whether that is the reality that this government has brought us to. Simply, five billion foreign trade deficits is something Serbia has not had, and that is one of the biggest foreign trade deficits we have recorded in the last 15 years. This is all under this authority; and, the country in which the biggest exporters are those who repack sugar and exports, there is no such country of happiness and don't be surprised that they've introduced the blockades. Reformers have now become anti-reformists. They argue that we shouldn't do it quickly now, but all slowly, there's time for everything, which you're in a hurry with now, which is what you're in a hurry with, and a lot of people wanted to break their legs when they were running into this room to make all kinds of bill proposals, when they were working till midnight, when the malts voted in the way they voted, from Bodrum, just so there's reformism, in which they were all filling their own pockets and other people's pockets, as long as it lasted. That's what we're talking about, such reforms, and certainly five billion and everything else is bad marketing. To the Serbian radical party who is making remarks here, I think that without entering this, we should make objections to the composition of this council and see if there really are problems. The work of the National Bank of Serbia certainly can be discussed, we want to talk and no one is running away from discussing and discussing the work of any institution in Serbia. Everything needs to be public through the Finance Committee and through other committees, to review privatisation, all the privatisations that were and which were controversial, so let's see if the reformers are as moody as they seem now.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u212	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u213	I wouldn't lie to you, Mr. Chairman, when I told you I was entitled to a replica. We know the Rules of Procedure well, we've been most tested in the previous period, so we've taught him well. First of all, as far as what Mr. Mihajlov was talking about and some kind of transfer to the Serbian Radical Party, perhaps responsibility, if that's how I understood it, for something that was happening in Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska. As far as Republika Srpska's Krajina, the struggle of that people, the Serb people, the Serbian Radical Party supported and was the second most powerful political party in Republika Srpska's parliament at the moment he was disbanded, behind the Serbian Democratic Party of Serbian countries; they had 31 MPs, and we are 16, and this speaks of the will of the Serb people of Republika Srpska. At the time of Krajina's fall, the leaders of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr. Seselj and Mr. Nikolic, were in prison, as the biggest opponents of the current government at that time, those who could take the people to the streets due to the fall of Republika Srpska. As for Republika Srpska, still in existence, we were the only political organisation and I mean even, I can't say right now, I wouldn't be wrong, in part perhaps the Democratic Party of Serbia, at the moment Vens - Owen's plan, which was against the Vens - Owen's plan, which was criminal and offered the Serbs 42%, with three pieces that were not connected and we didn't even have an open road to the then-existing Republika Srpska Krajina, so neither according to the part of the Bosnian province, the whole of the Banja Luka region. We were the only ones in Serbia against it, and then some ignorants said it was the best possible plan and that in no way should we refuse it, because, oh, God, we'll only get worse plans from the West. That is what Mr Milan Komnenic said in his day, if you remember, and insisted on it. It was so stupid that you couldn't explain it to someone who didn't know anything about it. There followed a contact plan by a group, which, by the way, is ten times better than Vance-Oven's plan. We got 49% of the territory, we got connected territory, even through a narrow corridor that existed, but we got a huge number of cities and villages that we didn't normally have according to Vance-Oven's plan. I don't know what else you could blame the Serbian Radical Party for, except that it is even after taking its name and last name in Republika Srpska's parliamentary party called the Serbian Radical Union, so in a single political party. Central Ministry Vice-President Radislav Kanjaric is also the president of our party for Republika Srpska, the Serbian Radical Alliance, and we make it clear, as the only political party in Serbia's political space, that we are for the unity of the Serbian people and that this never seems to be questioned. As for the problem with the National Bank of Serbia Council and what Mr. Mihajlov was talking about, there is one key problem. With everything to agree, to say that you're right about everything you've said today on behalf of this ruling majority, there are two key problems, two problems that are unsecured to you. One problem is Article 28. Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The problem must be resolved because neither the governor nor members of the National Bank of Serbia Council can be elected, as their choice would be directly contrary to that legal norm. The second is that we are discussing something that may not come to the vote and that we are losing and spending people's money. When I mentioned the money, Mr. Michael, you see who, how and how it should and how it can be. If you can't do something different and you don't have any legal authority, and I don't think you have... (Chairman: Please, time.) I'm finishing up, Mr. Michaelovich. I'm finishing right now. So, call this Djelic. It's not his assembly, it's not Serbia's front. Somebody tell that Djelic he can't blackmail the National Assembly, he can't harass the National Assembly, he can't say - I won't pay the National Assembly. What tomorrow should not be done by the National Assembly, because it has occurred to him and because he acts like it. He won't. There are MPs from the interior who have nowhere to sleep because Djelic has solved it because he is smart. It doesn't matter to us from Belgrade, 500 dinars whether we win or not. What should those who have no place to spend the night do, those who are much poorer than Djelic and like him? And here I call you to an incomparably greater seriousness and I appeal to the people of the Democratic Party to warn this man to behave in accordance with the Constitution and the law and to know what he is doing. Mr. Michael, as a lawyer, I call on you for the last time in today's day, to influence your coalition partners, to withdraw this motion for a decision. Such a decision cannot be adopted, such a choice cannot be accepted because it is directly contrary to the law. Sam Jelasic boasts that the functioner... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Wolfie...) I'm finishing... High-ranking HVB Bank. Such a man cannot be governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u214	The word has the People's MP Nikola Novakovic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miroslav Martic.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u215	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, let me cheer you up, another Novakovic from Novi Sad. So, we're in the neighborhood with Thessaloniki, so it's not the one, the other is from the epicenter, I'm sorry. A lot of different topics, and just one item on the agenda. What confuses me in this whole story is the fact that yesterday we adopted the agenda, that no proposal has been accepted for these two points, which we are already discussing the second day, to be joined into one, to be criticised today, from all cannons, why the agenda is as adopted yesterday. There's something wrong with me. Here, however, unlike my colleague, I will reconsider the matter. In this whole story and in all these suggestions, there is nothing unconstitutional or illegal. There is only one problem, and that is that the situation in which we have found ourselves is not mentioned exactly, because no one could even dream that the state and this parliament would ever be in this situation. That's why I'm surprised, but at the same time I understand the difficulty of the SRS, which in a constant opposition manner -- although it accepts that the election of both governors and councils has come under no circumstances, so against the law, and we don't say it's a crime, we'll hear it, but it's very close -- well, then, since we don't have a norm that explicitly and specifically regulates it, it's suddenly said -- well, and now it can't do this. I agree that maybe article 82 was left out in the proposal. The Constitution, it's very possible. We're not exactly always writing a proposal, and we're young, we're going to learn and beg for a little tolerance. This article is directly derived from the Rules of Procedure. So it's a way to edit the work of the Assembly that the Assembly itself does from that member of the Constitution. General legal rules, rules of ordinary law and morality applied in the case of legal voids say that a decision which is not legally valid, and this is a fine, mild term, therefore, which is disastrous, because it was made on the basis of an existing quorum, is only possible before the same authority and annul in that procedure. So whether we're referring to members or not, the question is what's the second order of things. Any other order of things, amendments to the law or procedure of resolution or anything we've heard from this pay phone, assumes the empowerment of an illegal decision from the very beginning. We tried to fill this legal void without cancelling decisions and bringing citizens of Serbia and the state and all of us into one terrible, terrible situation, and if it were something else, I think it would be realistic. So, the decision has been applied since the day of publication in the Official Messenger. We can discuss whether it's eight or already. So much for that. There is no fear of interregnum and vacuum after putting aside the decision to elect governors and councils. You have a particularly likable governor present, and this is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, because he has never been resolved, and he still has that internship, and here we have paralysis. Maybe you didn't know that. As for Mr Radovan Jelasic, everything you have read from the law, of course, is true and there is no dilemma; there is only one problem, Mr Jelasic is not the governor yet. So, the governor can't be a member of union organizations, but as you count it there. I am absolutely certain and confident of the perfect honesty of Mr Jelasic that he will not be a member of any union or any of these other organizations if he is elected governor. I would not talk about the members of the National Bank of Serbia's Council, because it is the first one, and that is all that has been chosen in an absolutely absolute and clearly illegal manner, in front of the same body in the closest procedure must be anulated. Finally, I'm surprised again, and I probably won't be surprised anymore, once I've learned all these relationships here. G17 plus at the time wasn't in the Assembly. G17 plus, the moment he found out about the theft, when that abuse of cards was discovered, he went public. Why did you miss the chance to react if it was July 22nd? (Alexander Vukic, from the site: It was responded immediately, on the same day. He turned down the president of the assembly. So it's an even worse situation. So, I urge you to think about what I told you by the day of the vote. So there's no one carding the blast in advance to yell that something is illegal and against the constitution. On the contrary, I think this is the only way and way. To tell you the truth, Mrs. Korri Udovici resigns about as if Radovan III forbids her. So he's always resigning, so he's pulling back. There's no way that resignation's gonna be born. Where's my anxiety? This morning I left Novi Sad and at 7.30 a.m. the euro course was 69.70 dinars. When I arrived in Belgrade, someone said 70 comas were a few dinars. There's my fear and my fear. I'm no longer sure what female vanity can do at 2400 hours. Maybe that's why I think faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u216	The word has Miroslav Martic, and let the MP Goran Jaksic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not sure this is the beginning of the Parliament's work that has fulfilled the expectations of the citizens, even more of the promises we made in the election campaign, and above all those who have made this agenda. In fact, the promises were that, above all, they would deal with significant life problems of citizens or more important laws. Let me remind you, at this moment 40 laws are waiting for the procedure for a statement in the Assembly proposed by, however, now the government that is at large, and among them the law on bankruptcy, the law on value added tax, and we are dealing with whether the governor of the National Bank will remain Kori Udovicki or Radovan Jelasic will be elected. I'm not sure that citizens are extremely interested in this or that these are life-threatening issues that they're interested in. As much as I understand the wish of the G17 plus and the DSS to correct a single injustice or an illegal decision that was made here in the Assembly, which, by the way, caused the most damage to the Democratic Party itself, first of all, by calling an emergency election, then by a poor result in the elections, and despite the fact that the Democratic Party has admitted that error, on the other hand, I have no understanding that it wants to appoint a new governor so quickly, at the same session. Wasn't it normal for you at this session, if you wanted to discuss that decision, to discuss that decision and to plead at the end of the session, if you had a majority, whether the decision was put out of force, and the next session to put in question the appointment of a new governor. Now, I have the impression that you reached out to, as they say, the unwanted speed, the speed, the right to tell you, which I didn't understand when the Democratic Party worked that way. And then, as a member of the Democratic Party and an MP in the former assembly, I didn't quite understand why Mr Dinkic had to be replaced and why it was necessary to replace him so quickly. Otherwise, we're paid for such a reckless political move. I'm afraid that at the beginning of this term you entered the same story, the team before we heard any arguments here about Mrs. Udovicki's intricacies, we didn't see that foreign reserves were somewhat reduced, we didn't see that monetary policy changed slightly more significantly. So no argument in that sense was made here. I have the impression, even though you didn't say here, that the reasons for putting this point on the agenda are primarily political. Besides, that's enough to say the fact, and you yourself said here that the new governor you're proposing was a member of G17 plus or still is. You said he wasn't on high ground. I don't understand - low, high-functioning, member. If we wanted to depolitize the institution of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, then it was necessary to be someone who wasn't a member without saying he was president of the Economic Council in G17. After all, you yourself know that there are people in political parties who do not have important functions, but from the shadows have a great influence on both the party and the party's policy, so I am sure that Jelasic is one of those people who has had a major impact on political developments in Serbia, i.e. on G17 policy, which has been defined over the past few years. What went wrong in the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia and the moment Dinkic was removed and the moment you wanted to replace Kori Udovici? Fortunately, nothing important. What the privatisation minister Vlahaovic said - G17, i.e. Dinkic very often highlighted his credits for a stable dinar either for a stable monetary policy or for paying off foreign reserves. It is clear that it is not only the merit of Dinkic, that it is, above all, the merit of the government, but also the merit of him as governor. It is the only thing Dinkic praised in the pre-election campaign, giving himself all the credit for a stable dinar and for paying off the old foreign currency savings. After all, it may be little to think about why exactly the G17 wants to take all significant financial institutions in this country, from the governor of the National Bank, to the vice-president of the government, who would probably lead finance to the finance minister. Why don't either of you get kidnapped, for example, for the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Social Affairs? These are the ministries that are not so attractive. I think it would be a good option if at the end of this debate we had a situation so that we could plead out and try to secure a majority for this vote, because if, for example, SPO MPs get angry or if SPO and New Serbia MPs are not satisfied with the ministerial seats, then it is quite certain that you will not have the majority to vote this point on putting aside the decision to appoint Kori Udovicki. Then we'll spend all day, and you DSS gentlemen, though and radicals, but they were right, you've often had the habit of asking around the pay phone how we spend time, how we spend taxpayers' money, and how much it costs, think about how much this will cost if things don't work out for the governor of the National Bank the way you planned. Here's to taking the opportunity, since the head of the DSS parliamentary group is here, Mr. Dejan Mihaylov. I'd like to quote something he said about "News" on July 22, 2003. He stressed at the time "that the transfer of Kori Udovicki from the government to the National Bank of Serbia would mean undermining the last institution that was not directly controlled by the government" and that the DSS, as confirmed by Mihajlov, would not take part in the vote because it does not agree with such a vote for the governor. I quote, "Korri Udovici will only be an extended arm of power," Mihajlov said, "it will be an attempt to maintain social peace by printing money". He still asked for the choice to support the absolute, not the simple majority, as he probably doesn't mind at the moment. So, on the question of whether Jelasic will be extended by the government's hand -- apparently he will, much more than Kori Udovici was. Kori Udovicki was never a member of the DS and was much less tied to the DS than Mr Jelasic is to G17 and the current political group. Secondly, did the printing of money happen and was there a social peace bought with it; and, what I've already asked him, why is he now consistently not favouring an absolute majority when it comes to making such a decision? In the end, around the course of the euro, since it was concerned and someone else from G17 plus, what happens to the course of the euro, why the course of the euro has been growing in recent days. I think it would be good to ask yourself if there is a reason why you can't form a government for two months now and that Serbian citizens are concerned about what's going on in Serbia, that you're moaning along with the SPO and New Serbia to form the government, that you're trying to make an impossible combination with the SPS and that citizens, simply thinking about a healthy logic, are increasingly buying the euro. I think it's far from the finding that you want to tell the citizens here, that Kori Udovici or the National Bank of Serbia is the one that is somehow putting more money into circulation and that this is why the euro is growing, probably alluding that it wants to the new government or the ruling coalition that will be formed undermining the political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u218	Replica, head of Dejan Mihajlov's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u219	Unlike those of you who claimed on July 23rd that Neda Arneric was here in the O.R., a few months after that convinced Serbian citizens that Neda Arneric was in the O.R., while Mr Tadic did not give that statement and said that she was not in the O.R. (I don't know if you were informed or not, probably did, since you were from Užica where Natasa Micic came from, so together you might have come up with some machinations and swindles in the Assembly), I stand by every word I said back then. And then it was said, and I stand behind it today, that the law on the National Bank of Serbia must be changed and that the absolute majority should be chosen by the governor of the National Bank. If the Ombudsman is scheduled to be elected with two-thirds of the MPs in this assembly and many other institutions are elected by an absolute majority, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia should certainly be elected by an absolute majority. It is totally undeniable, such as the law on the National Bank of Serbia must be changed, but it is also undeniable that a criminal and illegal situation in the National Bank of Serbia, which we have today, must be legalised and must be introduced into the legal system and we must get the legal governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the legal Council of the National Bank of Serbia. That's true, Mr. Honorable. The fact that you're going over the truth as you like it and Neda Arneric was there, and then she wasn't there, that Bora Novakovic was in Thessaloniki, so he voted, so he didn't vote, that's your problem; and that your conscience doesn't give you peace, that's your problem again. We stand behind every word and I beg you to quote that text in six months, because you will see that we have not changed at all, as we have after a few years, when you quote it. You will see that these things are like that and that we are absolutely behind every word. Whoever printed the money is seen by the euro costing six dinars more than it cost a few months ago. Why you printed the money, this new leadership of the National Bank of Serbia will certainly determine. Is it possible that you would settle for various financial powers that are working out of the fifth vessels to prevent the formation of a new government of Serbia without the Democratic Party, which will break the financial lobby in this country? Are these the financial lobbys that ruined this country and set us up with roadblocks for the sugar trade? That's what we're talking about here. They stand and finance those who tried to break the formation of a future Serbian government, my dear sir, and just those who oppose the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia will be formed for the first time in which no one will be from the former communist and other systems. There will be someone out of the system, and that is the DSS who was the only real opposition in all times. That is why many financial powers oppose and finance various to obstruct the formation of a new government. It is true, and that is why so much energy and effort has been put into reaching a new government; and by the results of the work of the new government, you will see who these powers are, those who will first find themselves in conflict with the rule of law and who will be the first subject of the competent authorities to question business and who has sinned against the citizens and who have become rich while the citizens have been poor for the last three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u220	The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and let the Messenger Branislav Blazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u221	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear to me that many at this time in this House are bothered by the presence of MPs G17 plus as a new force in parliament; and we are, of course, disturbing them as a stoner in a shoe, so we are insinuating, because we are new, and the citizens voted for new ones, because most of these old ones are probably no longer at their will, and in those old ones they no longer have confidence. Of course, many are concerned about this call, from many political parties, which G17 plus received, with 30,000 members and only a year of his political standing on stage, close to half a million votes; next time he will get more. That is why in the previous agenda, gentlemen, there is a constant replacement of the thesis and deception of citizens, and all for the purpose of continuing your political campaign. It's a classic abuse of this pay phone, but it's nothing new, we've already seen it, and hopefully it'll end with this convocation and so on. Not to mention, I don't know how a single host and Orthodox has been declared in the previous session as a member. I don't know what kind of sects or any other nonsense. On the subject of the previous agenda, we also had a replacement of thesis and very confusing presentations by various political parties, who simply did not know what they wanted. They claimed that the governor was obviously illegally elected, and there is no reason to call off, and if his illegal shift produced a certain legal fact and this illegally elected governor and council is now doing something in this country at the National Bank. The question was why are we in such a hurry to put one nonsensus in order. I guess it's clear to everyone that we want to settle all the institutions, and we're going from the one where there's obviously been an abuse and in which clearly management doesn't have any legitimacy or legality. The order is also very important to you, because you want to make a political story, so I ask that this point be placed out of the agenda, that we create a legal vacuum and a vacuum in the management of the National Bank as an important institution, where we will not have leadership until they are elected in this body by a new governor and new members of the Council, and then you want to probably use it in your political propaganda, because then you will say that by just putting aside the decision on the governor and the old National Bank Council we want to disable the work of the National Bank. Or you might find it even more interesting, since in that case, Mladjan Dinkic would have to take over the governor's seat, at least for that short time, to say and convey a message to the public that we did all of this in order for Mr Dinkic to come at least temporarily to the governor's post. That, of course, is not the reason, and of course with the agenda, we want everything you want to avoid. You're talking about the governor's candidate being unprofessional. At the age of 36, you saw in your biography, and we heard from some MPs here who are not from G17 plus, Mr. Radovan Jelasic is one of the candidates for the governor as few as possible, especially in the post-war history of Serbia. There is also a very inexplicable objection as to why the candidate for the new governor Radovan Jelasic is a man who is a banker and who has experience in such a kind of work. I don't know if a candidate for governor should, with all due respect to these professions, be an agronomist or a doctor. I guess it's pretty clear that it should be someone who's just tied to finance and banking. On the other hand, there is also a very ugly insinuation about who Mr. Radovan Jelasic is. By the way, that's the kind of man who has three sons named Marco, George and Elijah. The insolence that Mr Radovan Jelasic was on Mr Dinkic's team was, of course, only for his honor. You will not fool the citizens of Serbia, you will not make them forget, the citizens of Serbia remember perfectly what Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's team has done for this time and how much it has contributed to making every Serbian citizen feel safer and better in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u222	Deputy head of the parliamentary group Alexander Vukic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u223	Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, a member of the 100 was injured in a brutal manner, pages 1 and 2. The gentleman who spoke here in the most difficult words and qualifications spoke to his political opponents, not trying to say almost anything and thus contribute to the argument in favour of his candidate; or perhaps he imagined this as a point for some candidate commission, or I don't know what to do, and not for the choice of governors and the National Bank of Serbia Council. By the way, just to ask an interesting question, and I'm surprised that no one has noticed, but now they're holding it as a drunken float, it's occurred to them somewhere in the break, even though it was such a notorious nonsense that no one has ever said to anyone, I guess no one is stupid enough to think so, with this story that Mladjan Dinkic will be governor, because, of course, Kori Udovic was not elected, so now if it isn't brought again, Mladjan Dinkic could be governor. What the hell are you thinking? Where's that? I've heard all sorts of stupid things. I haven't heard anything like this. My people, I told you again today, but it was repeated by all the MPs of the SRS: all unlawfully done in the election of Kori Udovicki, the moment the decision to appoint her was made public in the "officer of the SRS", so, and the posteriori became legal. What Mladjan Dinkic?- I'm sorry. Maybe he could be governor again, with some guns coming in again, it's not impossible. He can't do it any other way. In the end, as far as this story of doctors and agronomies is concerned, maybe it can, maybe it can't, shouldn't, it's true. I don't know what I'm supposed to do, but there's one thing I know - you can't (and that's exactly what you want, which you can't) be the HVB bank director, because that's what the law says, and that's exactly what you want. That's what you should or shouldn't do, you can't. That's the fundamental difference between you and me. You can find a thousand examples, talk about a criminal, not an ex, but a former, former regime, or I don't know what, talk about whatever you want, whatever you want, but that, people, just can't. And what you're saying, and I don't want to tell you any ugly words, I don't want to put myself negatively on my political opponents, but you're saying, you're attacking us, your political opponents, to talk nebulose. You have no idea what you're saying. You're saying something that doesn't have to do with the truth, you don't know the difference between recalls, resolutions, shifts, you don't know anything about it, and you're going to repeat it five or ten times from this pay phone because you think you can talk because you're talking to ignorant people. No, there are a lot of very professional people here, who have passed hundreds of laws, who know every little thing about it, you can't tell them what you want to tell your neighbor. These people know it well. Do not underestimate parliament and do not insult your political opponents. If you keep doing that, we'll suit you, and then you know how you go. Somehow you always get it on your nose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u224	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, and let the MP Predrag Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a revolution that began on October 5th apparently is still going on, only intent, relationships are a little different. There is currently a conflict within the revolutionaries over the division of prey. It all started on October 5th, when a group, a crisis headquarters led by Commander Dinkic, broke into the National Bank with a sock or no socks, someone said with long pipes, a rifle or a guitar, took over the National Bank. What he pointed at those people, we don't know if it was a rifle or a guitar, but it's the fact that the National Bank fell and they took it that day. However, when the accounts were settled and balanced, when the distribution started who received more or less, Mr. Djelic with that government and that minority assembly apparently carried out a new tactical blow, with some long-range cards, oversea managed to bring down the then governor of the National Bank and set up Mrs. Kori Udovicki, who proved to be a prominent expert in mining and negotiations with the miners, and also a financial expert in the advice of the pensioners, to explain how in a simple and easy way to get the money and thus pay the electricity. Kori Udovici was appointed, which the proposer today says was never the governor. However, the conflict continues within the revolutionaries, and we are coming into a situation that now Mr Dinkic, using this situation under pressure from the new coalition and the new government, and all based on rematchism, the vengeful mutual councils that rule between him and Djelic, is tearing down the current governor. It would all be very funny if it weren't too tragic, if this fate of ours wasn't as tragic as it is. The rematchisms, the conflicts, the distance between us, the threats, the vengeful government replaces the vengeful, the vengeful assembly replaces the vengeful. What is more important to the SRS at this point than anything else, is to prove that this is not legal, that this is not how the governor can be elected, to say that this country has neither the president nor the Prime Minister, will have the governor, to ask - which is why it is more important this time of human vanity, to prove to someone that he can carry out the shift, but to go to one legal state to go to the democraticization of society. You can't choose a governor who was a vice governor without being told about his work at the vice governor's place. You can't choose a governor without questioning and declaring the truth about the National Savings. The governor cannot be elected until everything that happened at the National Bank has been clarified, which the inspectors say the team that brought Dinkic closed all approaches and that it was not possible to know how the donation money came from and what accounts the money was spent on. Therefore, in these times, what is certain, in 1989, when Romanians arrested Ceausescu and immediately shot him, Europe said - if this is the beginning of democratisation and the creation of the rule of law, there will be nothing of it. Right after October 5th, we said here in the Assembly, if it's the beginning of the rule of law and democratisation, it's not going to be anything. We're back at the beginning and we're telling you again, now this second -- if this is the beginning of the rule of law and democratisation, none of this is going to happen. Such a coalition, based on blackmail, on each other's calculations, will be so brief that no one will arrive to turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2004-02-18-0.u226	Thank you, sir. There's a representative of the motion. The Proposer's representative is asking for a break. Irregularity. ) According to Article 94, the chairman has the right, for the sake of obtaining an opinion, to set a break and I set it in time of 30 minutes. Please, for one more moment and a little more attention, I have an even more constructive proposal to interrupt the session now and continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
