ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7971	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, esteemed media representatives, I am opening the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. This session was called on: BiH Presidency Chairman Željko Komšić, BiH Presidency member Bakir Izetbegović, BiH Presidency member Nebojša Radmanović, BiH Council Chairman Nikola Špirić, BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Dragan Vrankić, SNSD President Milorad Dodik, HDZ President Dragan Čović, SDA President Sulejman Tihić, all ministers and deputy ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, as well as funds of public information. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, 31 MPs are present at the session. The absence was justified by Šemsudin Mehmedović, Emir Kabil, Nermin Purić and Zlatko Lagumdžija. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There's no record of a hearing. I'm saying 17. ... I'm sorry. Please, you signed up later.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7972	Thank you, Chairman. I checked in before you started your last sentence, but technique's probably a little late. So, I don't know, but you can, if you want, I can leave for later, but before the previous question, maybe business intervention. Are all the conditions met that tonight we are discussing the draft law on the BiH Budget of Institutions and International Obligations, in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the laws that regulate this matter?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7973	Is anyone else answering for a debate on the agenda? If this is a new debate, I apologize for the display. Azra has been re-enlisted. So, let's close the debate and give the answer to this question. 2 We, I will give it in an explanation when I open this point a little more extensively, we have had a very serious debate before the Expansive College, especially today at the Expansive College, and in the end, the Expansive College concluded that they had acquired it unanimously. Here, therefore, in response from the enlarged college. I'm now realizing that the 17th session of the House has the following 1. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2011 (delivered by BiH Presidency Chairman Željko Komšić, 30.12.2011) During yesterday, as well as today, and as chairman and as colleagues here at the College of the House of Representatives, we held a whole series of working meetings with the finance minister, with our colleagues from the House of Peoples, with the chairman of the House of Peoples, Mr Tadić, with the members of the Presidency, with the president and members of the Constitutional Commission and with all the clubs of MPs. Today, this Bill on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2011. We started work today at 17.00 p.m. with the work of the Extended College of the House, and at 20.00 p.m. we finished the session of the Extended College of the Representatives of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We adopted the following at the Enlarged College, and I will now read it 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the 17th session, held on 30.12.2011, acting in accordance with Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, based on Article IV.c) and Article V.3.e, of the Constitution of BiH, in a situation where the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations was not adopted and the institutions were financed under the Council of Ministers' decision on temporary financing under 1. Approves the draft law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2011, at the level of implementation in the current 2011; 2. It tasks the BiH Presidency to formally form an act described in point 1. The Budget Law of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2011, which will be referred after the delivery of the College of the House of Representatives, to the publication in the Official Messenger of BiH; 3. It obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt a decision on the temporary financing of BiH institutions for the first three months of 2012, in accordance with point 1.' I must say that this proposal for a conclusion has not come to the extended College of the House of Representatives at all. This is the fruit of the days, especially today the extra effort we've made. We tried to make a compromise to get out of this situation that is objectively of no benefit to anyone in this country. I'm opening a debate, please. Azra Hadžiahmetović, please. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7975	Thank you, Chairman. First, I must express my satisfaction that we have before us some 'The Proposed Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions'. Of course, I am sorry, and let me mention that I also speak on behalf of my colleague, Beriz Belkić, who waited here for an hour without any information, because the session was scheduled at 1800 hours. The session of the College, which lasted from 17.00 to 20.00, resulted in this resulting and precisely in the context of my question of the previous one that we are discussing today something that we do not know what it is. I didn't accidentally ask if the procedural conditions were met. Because I'll just remind you, the Council of Ministers sets out a proposal to deliver to the Presidency. The Council of Ministers held neither yesterday nor yesterday. We have not received a draft budget from an authorised proposing. So, we got from the BiH presidency, along with two amendments. We need to adopt a document tonight, and after that, the Bureau, or we will oblige the Presidency, is to deliver it to us within seven days in order to be published in the Official Journal. So, let's just put some things together. I know perfectly well that it is the importance of the 2011 budget, but the farce that the session is scheduled for December 30th at 6:00 p.m., to begin at 20.20 minutes and to start with such broken rules of the game that are common and in the prescribed procedure in our Constitution and the Council of Ministers Act, we should only be aware of that. I will report, of course, to the debate when there is an opportunity for the metrics themselves, but here we are beginning to realize therefore an unusual order of moves made by this Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7976	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7977	Dear chairman, respected colleagues, respected guests, I would like to welcome this six-member agreement that took place after one-third of the term of office before the Alliance for a Better Future. I would also like to say that the proposed budget, which came from the chairman-in-Office, Mr Željko Komšić, is not signed by the other two members of the presidency. This is proof of one thing that it is either here or still it is about some inside of the six problems you see, which are clear and which are certainly present. As an opposition, we cannot accept this draft budget because two members of the Bureau did not sign it. We cannot accept for another reason, which the six signed and committed this parliament, which is what shows that this partytocrat has signed and pointed out the process to bring the implementation, or budget, on the basis of this process that is... in place for 2011. We forgot and again today and regardless of the arrangements that were with the soldiers, who retired in 2010, we'll double-cross them. In addition, neither those decisions for individual BiH institutions are absolutely respected, and I think this is the way the budget is proposed and in this way, certainly, neither we want nor we can nor want to support it. I think this is both about moral and political irresponsibility. 4 So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7978	Replica, deputy chairman Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7979	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my replica refers to the presentation of the distinguished representative Mirsad Đugum. The six therefore did not take on Parliament's prerogatives. Six political leaders reached a political agreement on the content and scope of the 2011 budget to ensure temporary financing in the first quarter of 2012. And that political agreement actually applied and was an instruction or, if you will, and a commitment for members of their parties in the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to do their part of the work, according to the Constitution and the law, and in no case the substitution of this Parliament. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7980	Replica, Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, related to the discussion of fellow Đugum, which concerns members of the Armed Forces of BiH, to whom the contract has expired, and which, by law also passed by this parliament, have certain powers, today, during the day and yesterday, as it has been pointed out in the media, especially in the media of which the owner and founder of the Alliance for a Better Future is stressed that, before the Party of Democratic Action, that is, in front of its centrally sought solutions, as are sought both by the institutions of this state and by the Presidency and today in this paragraph. And, in a series of meetings today, a solution has been found to start solving these categories' problems. Today, a member of the House of Peoples College, Mr. Sulejman Tihić, president of the Federal Institute of PIO, Mr. Krnjić, and the Federal Prime Minister, Mr. Nikšić, found a solution until the adoption of the 2012 budget to introduce these categories into law. I repeat, they also have the law that passed this Parliament, they also have the Constitutional Court's verdict, so that those responsible who have held talks with them today will find a way and we have a promise from those who opposed that their contributions will also be found in 2012 and that retroactively they will find the opportunity to fulfil their rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7982	Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7983	Thank you, Chairman. 5 On the occasion of Mr Ljubić's intervention that the six-year-old did not take over Parliament's prerogatives, as you said, I would remind you only of the document accompanying the draft law on the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2011. Therefore, it is a letter from the BiH Presidency, Mr Komšić, who informs parliamentarians that in the late evenings, 29.12., in the Presidency of persons who presented themselves as assistant minister delivered material called the Budget Law of the Institutions, etc. Among other things, the reason why he delivers this letter as a personal proposal lies in the fact that a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, does not want to, and calls for a prescribed procedure, in this way to discuss the material that is called, from which absolutely no one can see it, or whether it is respected, or whether it is possible to read and study it at all in such a short time. Among other things, he said, driven by the desire for the six party leaders' agreement to succeed in implementing, aware of the justified reasons cited by Mr Radmanović, and aware of the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly has constitutional powers to adopt and amend regulations, however, he chose to deliver this act in this way. So the key motive for such a drastic violation of the Constitution and the law in BiH, when it comes to the procedure, was the agreement, i.e. the six party leader's agreement and the drive to implement it. So, only the apropo of your intervention that the six have not taken over the prerogatives of Parliament, is not of course in terms of adopting the budget, but the agreement of the leader who is finally here to welcome the agreement that was from two, three days ago and who has in some way carried out on the clearing and those who are both in the final and responsible and who are the address for everything that has marked and what BiH will mark, both in the past 450 days and in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7984	Replica, Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7985	I'd like a replica of this if the six of you hadn't taken over. It is clear that the honourable MP, or vice-president, Mr Ljubić said that the six-member has committed her membership, but we see how she has also committed: two members of the presidency did not sign this draft budget. So that's exactly what I'm saying. Two members of the Bureau did not sign, and if it were the chairs, it is clear, it is well understood. Mr. Ljubić, you also wrote, or said in the media, you conditionally accept the signature of a six-way agreement, depending on bilateral conversation and agreement on division of functions. That's one thing. And to Mr Asim Sarajlić, an esteemed representative, I would answer that the SDA also promised in 2010 that retired soldiers would be subject to pension rights... which is a constitutional category, which this parliament adopted and people have no income or income from since 2010. You promised in the election campaign, which is why you had that meeting outside the SDA building. And I have absolutely no doubt that it will not happen to you again, because a solution has been found through the federal pension fund, a solution found through the Federation government, which is within the authority of this Parliament to provide funds and schedules to the entities' pension funds. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7986	Before I give my word, a colleague named Božo Ljubić called. I just want to remind you, so we are a democratic Parliament and you will all have a chance to express your opinion. Word has a colleague, Božo Ljubić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7987	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wondered if I should replicate. The fact, as Mr Mirsad Džugum says, that two members of the presidency did not sign this draft budget, in some way implies that what the leaders agreed on is even less forcing you as parliamentarians to accept something. So it's a political deal. It is therefore the responsibility of each institution and individual in each institution to act in accordance with their own views and assessments. Of course, my signature on this agreement became unconditional the moment my party's presidency approved it, and that happened yesterday. So we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7988	Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7989	Thank you. Here, I'll discuss what you call the Budget Bill. So, while that, of course, is later, as I heard, based on the agreement of the Expansive College, going into parliamentary procedure, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. But here, in view of this document that has come before us, perhaps unusually, with everything I have already said, for business intervention and for the replicas to mention that it is little and unusual to say that the motion for this document by the chairman of the Presidency, Mr Komšić, is also proposing two amendments to this Parliament, which relate to the implementation of the law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. So it is truly unusual and absurd that this is happening in an amendment rather than in a normal budget procedure, not by the law of authorised proposings, not in the way that it is common in all normal countries: that when a parliament adopts a law that includes both financial implications, it is of course re-painted in the budget. But let me mention, though, that's not the only case. Here in this document, although we are already at the end of 2011, we do not have any other financial implications of the laws and decisions made by this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. I will only remind you of one current problem, which is to address the problem of functioning institutions of the general importance of culture, the history of BiH. We saw what happened to the Earth Museum two days ago, etc. If it were matter to be in the budget and financially supported, I would only remind you of documents adopted as official documents of the Council of Ministers, where, among other things, in line with the adopted strategy and document prepared for the Council of Ministers of 15. On 7 September this year, when an action plan for the implementation of the Cultural Policy Strategy was adopted, the funding of institutions concerned should be included. However, this will likely be taken more into account when we talk about the 2012 budget. But here, let me mention it again, to put it, I don't know, if it's a pleasure. I don't really know if this document is, or whether we didn't get it in the way that the Constitution and the laws of BiH prescribe it, but let me also express the satisfaction that we finally got it after 450 days of elections, and also to express the dissatisfaction that we're talking about it 30 in the evening, at 8:45, or at the beginning of the sitting at 8.20, because this should have been more public messages that this Parliament is looking after state institutions, etc., to send a message. However, here, and I would also like to mention that if you think that people will be happier than tonight and that they will also believe a little more in the agreement between politicians and this new parliamentary majority, etc. - You're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-30-0.u7990	Thank you. I find that there are no more charges for discussion. I'm closing the debate. The House of Representatives' College has unanimously concluded that we are approaching the vote immediately. Please prepare to vote. So, we will vote on the proposal, a unanimous proposal, not unanimously, colleague Mirsad Đugum in front of the SBB who did not support it, and the rest are. So, about the proposal I read. There's no need to read it again. You've all heard and please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that the House of Representatives, with 28 votes 'yes', three 'against', without 'abstained', accepted the proposal of an enlarged College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We have the necessary and general and entity majority. And, at the end of the session, allow all the citizens and peoples of BiH to wish a happy and successful 2012 and the citizens of Orthodox religion to receive an Orthodox Christmas. I'm closing the session. The seat is closed at 20.47 hours.
