ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6196	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 9th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević announced a delay. 33 MPs are present, according to the information provided by the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the change of agenda, I want to know that we added to the agenda, and that: - point 3. The request of MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; - point 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH; - point 8. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions; point 25. Giving consent to ratify amendments No.1 of the BiH-European Investment Bank Financing Treaty, signed on 17 November 2005. On the agenda we downloaded: - point 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), because it is the Constitutional Commission 5. 8. 2011 submitted a request for a 2 extension of the deadline for the submission of the Law Proposal Report. The House College has set 20 as the deadline. Nine. 2011; - point 11. The report on activities on the project Highway to Corridor 5c and the plan of the next activities, we downloaded this point on the basis of Rule 64 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, since we do not have the opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications which has decided to organise a public hearing on the subject: Project Road to Corridor 5c and accelerated implementation of planned activities; - point 12. A report on the application of the Single Rules for the construction of legal rules in BiH institutions. The House College removed this item from the agenda in accordance with Article 64(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, as the respective Constitutional Legal Commission did not deliver an opinion since the report was not present at the meeting and the Commission was not able to declare the same. - point 14. Information on the security situation in BiH in 2010 for the period January-March 2011 And this point was taken off the agenda by the College of the House in accordance with Rule 64 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, because BiH's Joint Defence and Security Committee has not delivered an opinion since the meeting was not attended by the Minister of Security of BiH, and the Joint Commission has not discussed the Information. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Since there are no reported, or... there is, there is no, there is no, technical error. MP Mladen Bosić comes to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6197	Here I would ask the MPs of the BiH Party, who have launched this initiative to discuss the draft law on the banning of all crimes, here I am not pushing here, to withdraw this item of the agenda, because it is intended to reopen the discussions that we have chewed here a hundred times so far. It is clear here that this point will not lead at this time to agreement and compromise, that it will reopen old divisions and old topics. And I have to say that we are in some way calling on other political parties to find a way to refrain from constantly returning to the past, to try to get this society out of the fungi that we found in the '90s and to turn to real life problems. Our party has also announced that it will be our policy, we will not... conflict policy, we will not lead her here in this home. Such agenda points, which are known in advance to be non-agreemental and that they will deepen the differences between us, will not do us any good and will not open the door for compromise. That is why I appeal to the MPs who have proposed this item of the agenda to withdraw it and possibly leave it for a time when an agreement and agreement can be made on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6198	on the agenda of the 9th session of the House of Representatives, I remind you that in preparation for this session, we held a session of the House's College and yesterday's Extended College of the House of Representatives and that we proposed such a agenda together and unanimously. [[no microphone turned on]] The extended College 3 was attended by counterpart Mladen Bosić. This idea was not proposed yesterday at the Enlarged College and perhaps for work and future activities I would suggest that if there are already certain amendments and additions that we try to solve this before the session itself. But here's what's there. The replica was first reported by Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6199	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, I also thank my colleague Bosić, who, with his argument, has launched an initiative to pull this point off the agenda, but I believe that my colleague Bosić thinks that if we keep quiet about some things or if we don't return, as he says, to the past, etc., I believe that my colleague Bosić thought that it would be easier for us in the future. But we don't think so. Prohibition of the denial of genocide and other crimes, etc. Civilian fluid. And we have been dealing with the need to regulate these things here in BiH for a long time. I'll just remind you that for a few decades now, it's been marked and marked by the tregeds that have marked mankind in time and just before or after World War II. And I'm going to remind you of international institutions, above all the Council of Europe, appeals, resolutions, etc., which are going that way right now. This law that we've released in the process, I just want to remind you, today is in the process of considering the requirements for procedure, and, therefore, about content, we're going to have a chance to talk some other time. I appreciate that, but we appreciate that it's very important that we pass a law like this as soon as possible, one or similar.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6200	Thank you. I just want to remind you, so all the honourable MPs in the House of Representatives, so we're on the agenda and we try not to open the contents of this agenda, here's the debate on the agenda. Comrade Bosić, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6201	Chairman, the replica first to you, I attended this Kolegijum when you announced that it was by nature things made a agenda without any consultation. So I'm appealing here, so that's how it was, so without the agenda being done by automation. I didn't ask you to take the act off the agenda, I appealed to my colleagues to pull that dot. So I couldn't ask for anything else at the kolegijum, I'm now asking with this argument and a request to recognize that we should turn to the future and look less and less and less at the past. I'm not against the fact being established, but what about the story of your party president or the party's president yesterday is still talking about 300,000 Bošnjak victims in BiH. Should we discuss this at this point in the agenda? Therefore, this is a general appeal that I could not refer to at the College, it is addressed to fellow Members who have their own argument on the basis of which they have set this point. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6202	kolega Bosić, I must remind you that unfortunately you did not hear the argument at the Expansive College until the end. There are mandatory points of the agenda and we gave that explanation yesterday at the Expanded College. But here I agree with both you and your predecessors that we do not spread this story within the agenda, and for all future appeals, etc. I think the procedure is clear, that we try to solve them on an extended college so that the sessions themselves can pass as effectively as possible. Another MEP, Beriz Belkić, called for a discussion on the agenda, and this concludes the list of applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6203	Well, I didn't answer for a discussion on the agenda, but I answered practically Mr. Bosić's initiative and it's time to answer the question. I fully understood the procedure of his statement, so the man asks us to withdraw from the agenda and not challenge our right of course to suggest it. So, Mr. Bosić, it's not our intention to produce some conflicts with this bill. If you look closely at the content and reasoning of the law, you will see. So, unfortunately, we reduced that thing to maximum, and in some ways it was reduced to principles. We talked about the holocaust, we talked about genocide and war crimes, there are only four members of this law. So our intention is not to produce a verbal conflict here and, I say, to poison the atmosphere in this country. Our intention is to try to reach a consensus like a few or dozens of countries in the world to try to stop this phenomenon in some way. I even know that it's not the happiest repressive way to eliminate this thing, I'm not sure if we're going to have success. But let's try, Mr. Bosić, to talk about it. I am convinced that you as Mladen Bosić absolutely do not approve of denying a crime or anything... etc. So, to talk about it, it's not our intention to produce conflicts.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6204	For word, i.e. business intervention, a colleague named Milorad Živković appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6205	Thank you. The proposer of the same or similar agenda in the last term in 2008 and 2009 was Mr. Ekrem Ajanović, and both times the law did not get support, which is likely to happen with this law, but I will not reconsider, but also the RS mood is already talking about it. However, we are talking about a mandatory agenda point. The mandatory item of the agenda cannot be downloaded either on the Extended College or at the session itself, because it came in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it came with the material needed for the agenda point, not even an MP to withdraw it. The agenda may be withdrawn, which is proposed before the agenda is established, so that the MP gives up that item of the agenda, and such a defined business procedure is impossible to break except that the proposer withdraws the law at the end of the first reading. This is about legal procedure, this and the Council of Ministers can, as well as 5 MPs by the end of the debate in the first reading, call it off. I'm sorry this legal project, which came in this way, will end up as the last two. But we can't take off the mandatory agenda right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6206	I thank my colleague Živković for these additional clarifications and I find that the 9th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 8th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. The request of MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Alignment of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign currency savings account, the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1411, since 18.8.2011. (first reading); 5. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the law in first reading); 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 7. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 8. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010; 10. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Aleksandra Pandurević on the discussion of the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010, which reads 'As it has been shown that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH (VSTV), in order to prevent the independence of the Justice Council, has not ensured the conditions for the rights to be independent, efficient and professional, Interresor working group, within four months of its formation, to prepare amendments and additions to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH relating to a) the composition and way of election of the members of the VSTV, 6 b) the removal of potential abuse of office by members of the VSTV in the sense that during the term of office they cannot be elected to judge and prosecutorial and prosecutorial positions in BiH, as well as in the positions of the BiH's courts and in BiH's courts and in BiH, the budgets, as their mandates, the mandates of 11th and in BiH, the mandates, the BiH budgets offices, the EU, the Courts of BiH, the EU, the Courts and the EU, the Courts, the Councils and the Courts, the Courts, the Courts and the Courts of BiH's of BiH's offices of BiH's, as their offices, as their offices, the BiHs, the institutionss, as their offices of BiHs's's's's offices of BiH offices, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH, the offices of BiHs and the institutions of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiHs, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions and the institutions and the institutions and the institutions, the institutions, the offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH offices of BiH of BiH, the Decision extending the mandate and amending the mission of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Armed Forces Armed Forces Armed Forces in Operation Force of International Security Assistance (ISAF) in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, material of BiH Presidency No 01,02-03-86611, of 3. 8. 2011; 12. Report on agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009, the Council of Ministers' material No 01,02-28-100210, of 23. 8. 2010; 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31 March 12. 2010, BiH Council of Ministers material No 01,02-50-19-56711, of 15. Six. 2011; 14. A statement on MP Mirza Kušljugić's initiative that the House of Representatives in the agenda of the session, which will be held in September 2011 will include the point of 'Analysing the implementation of the commitments which Bosnia and Herzegovina has made by signing me international agreements in the field of energy'; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on the Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of tourism; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Robotic Treaty on the Protection of Olympic Symbols of 26 September 1981; 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Veterinary Cooperation (Resolute Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH); 19. Giving consent to ratifying the patent law Treaty adopted on 1 June 2000 in Geneva; 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on co-operation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and organised crime; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Austrian Federal Government on the implementation of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the reading of persons staying without authorisation (the Implementation Protocol); 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal and the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on Co-operation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and organised crime; 7 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Declaration of Purpose between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD); 25. Granting approval to ratify Amendment No.1 of the Agreement on the financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, signed on 17 November 2005. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 8th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6209	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I have two remarks. The first remark refers to point 2 below (a) Comments on the answers received. I remind you that in last session, I said that I failed, that I had received a late response from the Office of the High Representative to the asked question and that I would plead at the next session. That doesn't say here, I'm asking you to keep that in mind, since I expect to be able to speak my mind about it today. And the other mistake concerns my asked question on page 5, I don't know how someone thought it was necessary to correct it, so it's my question – are the Ministry of Defence and Joint Staff familiar with the information of the competent services about the failures of helicopters that came from the Ukraine and Icarus remonts? - This Ikara turned into Iraq, as if Iraq could remount anything, let alone remount helicopters. So, please, don't let professional services correct our questions. If they're not at least clear, they should ask what it's about. So, I ask that those two things be corrected and that this one be entered first, and this one be fixed.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6210	Are there any more reported related to the first item of the agenda? There isn't. When adopting the minutes, we will take care of these changes of technical nature. I believe professional services didn't make that mistake on purpose, but here are the people who make mistakes. So, in the record statement, we're going to suggest that it be corrected. 8 Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. MPs' questions: a) Comments on answers received Until today's session, the answer to the asked question was: Mirsad Mešić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the 3rd session of the House; Lazar Prodanović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 3rd and 5th session of the House; Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Purić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 5th session of the House; Niko Lozančić of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, asked questions at the 7th session of the House; Zijad Jagodić of the Republika Srpska Government, asked questions at the 7th session of the House; Denis Bećirović of Justice and the BiH Ministry of Security, asked questions at the 7th session of the House. Also, at the 8th session of the House, answers to questions asked by Dušanka Majkić, a response from the High Representative for BiH, were not asked at the 3rd session of the House; Lazar Prodanović, an answer from the BiH Ministry of Justice, was asked at the 7th session of the House. So first we move on to comments on the answers received, and then on to new parliamentary issues. The MP Mirsad Mešić first signed up for comments on the answers received. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6212	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since this house has been operational, I don't remember anyone commending the Council of Ministers. I am using this opportunity to praise the activities of the Council of Ministers in the context of a crisis called the Escherich family bacterium and its phenomena in Western Europe, especially the BiH Food Safety Agency, which has been very professionally, competently and professionally managing this crisis. I guess this is also an example of how it should be done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6213	Dušanka Majkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6214	So I can say that I am partially satisfied with the high representative's response. I am not satisfied with the first part, which says that Mr. Radislav Jovičić has been removed because of activities that directly threatened the implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace, and I am not satisfied because Mr. Jovičić, if he was a threat to peace, has not been processed internally or in the framework of the service in which he worked, nor criminally before the domestic judiciary. 9 Why has he not been given the opportunity to defend himself, and why has he been judged without the right to defend himself, and without proving all that is put upon him? So for that answer... I was denied and still don't know as I didn't know at the time when I asked the high representative. On the second part, which I am pleased with, that the decision to lift the ban is made after a process that is triggered by a person who has been removed, so here, we will try, we will launch a request for that person to be released.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6215	The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6216	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected ministers, I prayed last time to be given the opportunity to comment today on the question of the Justice Department. And I also have an answer to two more parliamentary questions and in this context thanks to the Council of Ministers who effectively answered the questions asked at previous sessions... these are therefore also the General Secretariat and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I also wanted to say that this response from the Justice Ministry, which concerns this report, the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I welcome what they... state in this response... that it is necessary to make a statement to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. But I cannot support the view that the Ministry of Justice is clearly not finding, so this report by the Ministry of Justice certainly..., that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in the Annual Report in the tables states that the RS judicial institutions are lined up in the districts, which does not correspond to the legal structure of the judicial institutions in RS. ... I know that these answers are written by officials, it is unnecessary to avoid what is a fact and to leave that possibility to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council,... it is a very important part of the responsibility that is... and even at the last session were discussions on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to which this institution should respond in the context of its activities and work. At least, with respect for such a significant institution at BiH level, I think it should be respected. So much for this question. The second question concerns the European Charter of Human Rights, and I asked this question at the 3rd session, the Foreign Ministry replied, the Council of Ministers verified this response, but I want to conclude. So... that, at the time of ratification, the function of the BiH Foreign Minister and the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been amended and supplemented by protocols 3, 5 and 8 and Protocol No. 2, Protocols 1, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 11 carried out by Mr. Jadranko Prlić. But by obtaining BiH's membership in the Council of Europe on 24 April 2002, the day when the Convention and the associated protocols were signed, conditions were obtained to refer instruments to ratification of the Convention and the corresponding protocols to the depositary, the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe, the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe – the instrument of ratification was signed by Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija on 17 June 2002 as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH. Therefore, it is stated here that, in that sense, it was acted in accordance with the Constitution. But the interesting thing is... 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6217	A kolega Prodanović, just to remind you, three minutes are...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6218	Yeah, but I have three questions...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6219	No, no, all three minutes, all of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6220	Here, I'll be done soon. I believe that the motion on this ratification of the Convention in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH had to warn both the Constitutional Commission and the Representative and the House of the People of BiH that the Constitution of BiH contained in itself discriminatory provisions and that it would be necessary before accession to the ratification of this Convention to approach the amendments to the BiH Constitution. In that sense, I believe that a great deal of damage has been done, and I believe that the proposings, so in this case, the Foreign Ministry had to make clear and decidently say that there were discriminatory provisions and that we had enough time to do this before it was
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6221	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6222	The verdict – thank you, Chairman – I will say, before the European Court of Human Rights verdict is adopted. For the third question, I pray next time – I will give up the parliamentary question – if I say so, I will now comment, if not at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6223	I suggest at the next session,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6224	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6225	However that we are within the framework... The answer has been received by Ambassador Niko Lozančić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6226	Thank you. I got the question, I got the answer to the questions I asked the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and my satisfaction goes to the level that I am satisfied and thank the High Court and Prosecutor's Council for the speed of reaction to my question. And that's where all my pleasure ends, did I find out a lot more about this issue from the media than I did on the asked parliamentary question. 11 I am sorry, I am sorry that this is how we treat ourselves, and this very important institution on the issue of very mysterious circumstances under which the Attorney General has been suspended, not rurally, but the Attorney General. The only thing that remains for me is that I am directed here to provide some of the questions that other institutions can answer, which concerns this same issue, to be forwarded to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and to the disciplinary prosecutor at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6227	Thank you. Comment on the response received, Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6228	I thank you, Chairman and Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all and I would like to introduce you to the answers I personally am not pleased with. However, it is good for all of us to know how to take new steps in this regard. Last time I asked more questions, first of all for the Ministry of Transport and Communications at the state level, in terms of – what do they do when it comes to airports in Tuzla, Mostar and Banja Luka in order to improve the situation in economic and other technical terms at these airports? I received an answer saying that the jurisdiction of these cantons, or entities for the care and business of these entities, is exclusive. I consider myself close to Tuzla Airport where people suggest, they say the state needs to start something, because the canton doesn't have enough resources, etc., which I fully agree with, I think that federal, or entities and states should take a more significant step in helping these companies to traffic in that part... So, the answer I've got is that it's not a solution for me, because in the same example, we'd have to say what they're doing that makes it clear to me that the canton and the community are trying to do what they can, but it's a sign to me that we have to fight in another way to help and solve these subjects. As for the second question concerning vouchers, i.e. securities, since almost 30% of the population who received certificates or vouchers in both entities but were not used – the response from the Government, the RS entity's competent institutions received, where they say that whoever invested has invested. They don't think about it anymore. I also think it's one big hoax of the people, because the people need to be given the opportunity. If no one sees it in those certificates or value vouchers anymore, then we have to say what we're going to do with state-owned business entities. How do you help these companies? I see there is no initiative here, and therefore I think it would be extremely good to think about it, and precisely to enable the owners of these vouchers once again, because I also know that in the field of the Federation it is clear, five or six years ago, that the vouchers, the certificates, are being extended with the aim of finding an appropriate solution so that owners can invest from the same, at least, to benefit themselves because they have received them. 12 As far as I'm concerned, I don't think this is the end of the matter for me, and in the next period, I will prepare the next steps for this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6229	Thank you. We are now opening new parliamentary questions. The first enlisted Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6230	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, I'm going to ask two short parliamentary questions. It is well known to the entire public that the basic and secondary education system in BiH in different ways of dealing with the institution from the level of the municipality through canton, entities to the state level itself and through different secretariats, ministries, agencies, the rights and obligations and different standards are being imposed. Despite everything and everyone and the declared mandatory and free primary education, we are witnessing that basic and secondary education textbooks in BiH are among the most expensive and unskilled in the region. The question to the BiH Council of Ministers reads: "Who is responsible for the fact that basic and secondary education textbooks in BiH are among the most expensive and invaluable in the region, and why is the highest number of them worth only one school year?" A second question also to the Council of Ministers: "Who in BiH is responsible for the fact that BiH citizens pay the most expensive medicines in the region and is there a legal possibility that wholesale and retail margins on medicines are reduced to reasonable and tolerable measures and if there is who is responsible for taking such measures?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6231	The word has a second deputy chairman, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6232	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, therefore, I am asking the Council of Ministers, or Ministry of Communications and Transport: 'Home of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the session of 28. 5. In 2010, he adopted the conclusion, quoting: The Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Committee for the Control of the Implementation of the Corridor 5c project is in charge of dealing with the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH to resolve the issue of disputed parts of the route in order to issue consent and permission to build priority shares of the Autoway on Corridor 5c. (It is, note, about the position of the bridge near the Holiday and the route at Blagaj. 13 The question is: What has been done to realize this conclusion?’ Reason: The 5c highway to Corridor is the most important BiH infrastructure project since its creation, possibly the near future. It is the only pan-European corridor that touches BiH and BiH's commitment is to realise the project both towards the region and Europe. The problem of disputed track locations, already mentioned, has been running since 2009 and throughout 2010 and so far. The Committee for the Control of Realisation of the project 'Autheste at Corridor 5c', which was defined by the Treaty on Credit with the EBRD and the European Investment Bank, adopted a conclusion at a session held in the seventh month 2010, saying that by the end of July 2010, BiH's Ministry of Communications and Transport, a meeting would be held at an expert level to address issues relating to the location of the bridge at the Holidays and the route at Blagaj. According to information available to me, the ministry organised a meeting with relevant state, Federation, County and Mostar city entities at the end of July last year. The Federation government was to follow recommendations from competent institutions and according to the adopted documentation: Ideal project, main implementation project, decision by Parliament of the Federation of 2007 on special features on the 'Autopute on Corridor 5c' and adopted documents of the Spatial Plan of County, and approach the final definition of a route that cannot be more significant than adopted documents, allegedly no more than a few hundred metres. On the contrary, the Federation government established at night on 18 March 2011 decided after a public debate with representatives of the local community and sent a draft document proposing the move of the highway several kilometers north, rising several hundred meters from the adopted project. This draft, according to my information, significantly extends the course, collects works, later exploitation due to fuel consumption, transport is isolated by Mostar and western Hercegovina, and delays the start of construction itself. Knowing that hundreds of millions of euros have been reserved and signed with the EBRD and the European Investment Bank, BiH is already paying for the quotation, some will say penales, for the reserved and unrestricted funds and suffers huge damage. I also want to tell you this: this Parliament and the Council of Ministers have authorised and tasked the Ministry of Communications and Transport to prepare the project documentation, project and study documentation and, therefore, the government of one entity usurps the competences of state institutions. So, with the same argument, I launch the initiative to urgently, if possible at the next session, open the debate and put the agenda item entitled "Autopute on Corridor 5c", to invite all relevant entity representatives, county, city, municipality and finally, when this infrastructure project is in place. I would like to tell you, therefore, that this attempt to move the route marginalises traffic and then, economically, perhaps the most provost part of BiH, the western Herzegovina, and given the existence of that part of BiH by the Croatian population, then people suspect that I was also elected by the political marginalisation of a nation, or part of a nation. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6233	I thank my colleague Ljubić, the second deputy chairman, who was otherwise elected during the daily hours. The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6234	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I have three short questions. The first question is to the Council of Ministers: "What has the BiH Council of Ministers done so far with regard to recognising Kosovo documents so as to at least reduce the damage to BiH's economy, or to co-operate with neighbouring countries to take over the Kosovo market by our neighbours, because let us bear in mind that Serbia and Croatia have already done so." The second question is the SIPAs and the College of the House of Representatives: 'I have on several occasions asked the SIPAs about the contract and annexes of the building of the SIPA, and the purchase of land for the construction of this building. I have never received an answer in the old council, and here I am renewing the same questions again: to deliver me a copy of the contract, and a copy of the annex, and to explain how to purchase land for this facility with all the details of the purchase. I would point out that the auditor in his 2008 and 2009 audit reports recorded the gaps on this activity." The third question is the state Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH: 'Did this agency have in its work any project related to Roma employment, either on its own or in co-operation with entity or cantonal employment institutions?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6235	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6236	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of the presence of today's meeting of the Minister of Justice in the Council of BiH and ask him to be here orally, so I am not asking for an answer in written form, but here at the speaker's office, to give us information as far as it came into the realization and implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the known case of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci? As we all know here, the Constitutional Commission has proposed to this home that this matter form an interresor working group, but the Council of Ministers has, meanwhile, entered the procedure for the formation of the group and we have formed a group for the Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties, the Law on conflict of interest. We did not form an interresor working group for the implementation of the verdict because the Council of Ministers entered the work. The names of candidates from political parties began to be obtained, and then the Council of Ministers decided to return the matter to parliament 15 again. Where does that stand now? What's the problem? Is it written to Parliament? I don't know, so I don't have that information. I would like to know, because it is coming in autumn, very soon the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe will be sitting and evaluating BiH and we will be in a position not to have a group after so much time formed. I'm afraid of sanctions that BiH will suffer. I would ask you, Minister, if it is not a problem for you, the chairman, to give the Minister an oral answer to this question, right now for all of us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6237	All right, we will certainly follow up on the questions asked in accordance with Articles 152 and 153. Rules of Procedure. The question is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6238	Mato Franjičević has no questions but only an initiative, and I find the questions more or less clear to me, so I don't ask them. I hope that, given that it is a close event, everyone still remembers that on August 23rd in the EU countries and in countries that are seriously predisposed to become part of the EU, the Day of Remembrance is marked by the victims of all totalitarian regimes. Since BiH is a country that is seriously counting on being found in the near or near future within the European Community, and how, and we are all aware of that, the past century has been marked by crimes, unprecedented crimes of totalitarian regimes, and how, again, the BiH area and the wider environment has very much felt these crimes, I propose to the BiH Council of Ministers to launch a procedure for declaring August 23rd on the Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian regimes. As a relevant text, I refer to the European Consciousness Resolution and totalitarian regimes adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April 2009. I also suggest that this procedure be launched as soon as possible so that the next 23rd August can be dedicated, or marked and commemorated, the victims of all totalitarian regimes in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6239	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6240	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I will join the issues, but in the sense that I am reopening something that I am constantly trying to open up in this House, which is a matter of problem in higher education and that will have long-term consequences for the future of BiH and all its citizens, and especially for its economic stability. 16 We see that in each place we are practically opening universities that have no conditions or at least have apparent conditions because someone has signed such documents and that cantonal congregations, or entity parliaments, are voting for establishment. There is information, and I have no further accurate information, and that is why I am asking a parliamentary question: 'Is it true that several universities are planning to open in Brcko District in one day? How many state institutions can control processes in higher education, especially when spreading the network of higher education, regardless of what is fully known as entity or cantonal competences when it comes to higher education?' And I ask the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs who also has a question of education in its portfolio: "What should be done specifically to control this process and to meet the legal requirements for the opening of the university?"
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6241	Thank you. The word has Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6242	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and guests, the Law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act was adopted in 2009, published in "Official List" issue: 35/09. The Council of Ministers has repeatedly taken the decision to repeat the amount of tariff quotas relating to imports of raw cane sugar for refineries. I ask my question to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and... The BiH Council of Ministers: 'How many times since the adoption of the Customs Tariffs Act, has the Council of Ministers reiterated the decision to repeat the amount of tariff quotas relating to imports of sugarcane raw sugar for refineries? Please state the list of sugar refineries which have been approved since the entry into force of this law to date for import of raw sugar without payment of customs duties, as well as to indicate the quantities imported without customs duty by each of the refineries?’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6243	Thank you. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6244	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to the Minister of Security (I have no luck ever, just when I prepare the question for him he escapes). The BiH Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts was established under the Law on the Coordination of Police Authorities and Police Support agencies. The Agency shall be responsible for ballistic and mechanical skills, graphic skills, biological and biochemical studies, DNA analysis, specialist training, fire and explosives skills, and professional assistance to other bodies and agencies, in accordance with the law. The agency as a newly established BiH institution has so far established three laboratories: a laboratory for forensic studies, a laboratory for the art of computer systems and a laboratory for graphological or graphoscopic art. The most important lab, it's a DNA analysis lab in 2010, it didn't start. The DNA laboratory equipment, signed in 2006 by the European Commission's Memorandum of Understanding, is temporarily located in the premises of the Federal Police Administration. The memo defined that after the delivery of the installation, the Ministry of Security will be the owner of the entire equipment no matter where the equipment is originally installed. The Agency requested, accordingly, a report from the Ministry of Security on the status of that facility. In this regard, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted a conclusion requiring the Ministry of Security to establish in contact with the Federal Police Administration the right to use donated equipment and if the user of BiH's right to provide the transfer of that equipment to the Agency. To date, despite numerous warnings, this issue has not been resolved. Accordingly, I ask the Minister of Security to answer the following question: "When will the Minister of Security finally resolve the status of donated DNA equipment and thus enable the establishment of a fourth laboratory within the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts of BiH?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6245	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6246	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in order to prepare quality for reviewing the 2010 audit reports, I ask three questions: '1.I am asking the competent services of the Parliamentary Assembly to provide me with the names of the director, president or coordinator of the institutions and bodies of BiH. 2. To deliver me dates of appointment, i.e. appointments. 3. For all institutions, to provide the names of board members, supervisory boards or already as is called management structure, normally with a time setting, means at which stage the mandates, in particular the president and members of the boards of directors, as well as the directors of the institutions mentioned." I don't think there's a need for an explanation. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6247	Thank you. The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6248	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I have two parliamentary questions. First of them, I refer to the government of the RS and the government of the Federation of BiH. The question is: 'Who in the RS and the Federation of BiH and does anyone oversee the credit responsibilities of local self-government units at all? Is this process under control and what problems are in this area?" I therefore forward this question to the entity governments, since the BiH Council of Ministers said in response to my parliamentary question that it is not competent for this area, that it is within the entity's jurisdiction. The second question is for the BiH Council of Ministers: "When will BiH receive legislation from the domain of regional development, is it such that in the procedure, at what level and when can something concrete be expected on this issue?" And please answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6249	Thank you. The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6250	Thank you. 'Considering an extremely large disproportionate trade between BiH and the Republic of Serbia, which is nearly seven times bigger than BiH's exports to the same country, as well as the relationship between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, which is about four times bigger than exports to the Republic of Croatia, I ask the entity's competent ministries to ask: What are they doing to balance this relationship, because this situation is extremely devastating and irresponsible?' The second question: 'How much longer do we have to wait to arrange a decent system of highway charges from Josianica to Zenica, as well as why not consider changing the way the price is calculated, because it is not logical that the same price is from Josianica to Iliaša and from Josanica to Zenica and is 2 marks?' This is what I refer to the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications, or the Highway Directorate. 19 The third question: "Why does the BiH State Border Service not take care of the purity and arrangement of objects and land located in the border zone, because they are extremely messy and inappropriate, because this is nevertheless the first sign of a country's representation, and I think it is very important that we get an answer from the same." And the fourth question, the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate: 'Why has the abuse of citizens of BiH been done for a long time in the registration of motor vehicles, because the same after all the operations and payments have to wait from 7 to 14 days for certificates and verifications of traffic permits as well as similar documents by the CIPS, and what is necessary for one or two days?' I would only ask for the third question I asked, it is intended for the Ministry of Transport and Communications: 'What about the Sarajevo bypass and when can we expect the activities on that part of the highway?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6251	Thank you. The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6252	Let me welcome everyone present. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia: 'I ask you to answer me why the medicines on the essential list are not delivered in large packs or rinfuze of 1000 or more tablets? Are there estimates of possible savings in the case of imports and the purchase of large packages compared to individual ones?" Explanation: In developed Western countries to achieve economic efficiency and stricter traffic control drugs is the practice of obtaining medicines in larger packings. I'm asking to be answered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6253	Thank you. The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6254	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the question is addressed to the College, and will go through an initiative that you will receive in writing: 'When will the report on the work of the Research Commission on the examination of the spending of donations in BiH be included? The report has long been prepared, completed and Parliament is definitely coming forward once. Should this commission continue to work, not to make someone's intention to ask for the final year of the term of office to form the commission, and then make a big crowd in public about it, rather than to have Parliament through a defined agenda, or, the College to state whether or not it needs to be done, to break up with that farce in the media, because this can no longer be supported. He is a thief. He's not a thief.? Somebody took the donation money, somebody didn't. This was happening!? Let us once put an end to that story when no one has ever done anything in this country. The D.A.'s office hasn't launched a single case? The SIPA didn't run the investigation? So let's let them get involved in their business sometime! Do they read the paper? They don't need to ask MPs for an initiative, because I'm not an investigative judge or a prosecutor and I'm after them. That's not my jurisdiction. But let someone see what happened and let's say it was either it or it wasn't, to break up this media more halabuca, to come to Bog and to the people. It's only the people. Everyone here is a thief in this country. Wait, it's not like that, people, it's not an alibi for this name and last name, nor am I attacking anyone, but let's put an end to it, because it's already happened in the previous two terms. Formed an ad hoc commission, started work. Last term, about half way, came to mind, let's form it, finish something, now it's nothing. So let's tell you sometime if it's gonna be something or nothing. And put an end to that story. That is why you will get an initiative in writing to put it in the agenda and that once Parliament declares whether we are going to continue to do something about it or to end it and say we are powerless, there is nothing we can do, and these competent institutions that were obliged to do so have done nothing, so that once Parliament tells their own self, and not those others who are the smallest in the chain of things, who have the least to say, they keep showing up. And it's just up to us, it's just a crowd on us, it's just that we're everything and everything, not to repeat... two words. So you'll get in writing what I was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6255	A kolega of Jovičić, just to make one thing clear. At first, you said you were asking the question of the College, and at the end of the initiative. Is it a question or an initiative?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6256	All together.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6257	If it's all together, then I have to read article 151. Rules of Procedure. MPs can ask questions to the BiH Council of Ministers or any member of the Council of Ministers, such as members of the Council of Ministers, independent administrations, institutions and directors. The questions concern specific facts, situations or part of the information contained in their jurisdiction. That's what our rules of procedure says. 21 The word is Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to refer the issue to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in the BiH Council of Ministers: 'From 1. Seven. In 2009, the Excise Act was applied to the purpose of the development of the highway network to charge a fee of 0,10 KM of each litre of the fuel sold. Since these funds should be used for the cost of expropriation, the production of project documentation and the participation of entities in credit agreements and the repayment of credit debts, I am interested in how much money has been collected during this period, meaning from the beginning of the application of this law to the moment of answering this question?' I ask the question with the aim of eliminating potential reasons for the deterioration of external debt sustainability indicators, i.e. the public debt of BiH, when making decisions on new debts and the purpose of credit obligations in the next period, and as regards activities on the Corridor 5c highway project." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6259	I thank Mr. Sokolović. We've exhausted the list of questions with this. In accordance with Articles 152 and 153 that the honourable MP Džaferović respected, so he delivered the issue in written form, stressed who he asked for an answer, the issue was passed on to the minister of justice. So, MP Šefik Džaferović asks the minister of justice: 'When and by whom will the working group for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg be formed in BiH, so Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's verdict? I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mr Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6260	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, here I can answer this question very briefly which the esteemed representative Džaferović has asked. I don't know when, and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should do it. In fact, such a suggestion went by the Council of Ministers towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is true that at one of the Council of Ministers' Council meetings, the Ministry of Justice has tasked itself to propose an inter-resor working group, and I, as a minister and my services, have embarked on this job and asked each of the clubs, so in the Parliamentary Assembly... every club from the House of Representatives, as well as the House of Peoples to deliver candidates to us for this inter-resor working group. We were in this business, but at the next Council of Ministers session, it was beyond the understanding that given the old Council of Ministers' meeting and the new assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly that it is much better to do so by the Parliamentary Assembly, and of course that the Council of Ministers will be available within that scope and that capacity as the Parliamentary Assembly asks us to. That's what I know and what I can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6261	Mr. Džaferović, you have two minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6262	I don't need three minutes, it's only 30 seconds. I kind of assumed the deal was like this. I don't know if that letter came to Parliament and that's why I asked this question. I ask you to present this question to the session to form a group at the next session of the College, the Joint College. The problem is that these groups don't have any activity at all, so here's the thing. That was my intention. I'm asking you to do it. Because I am afraid now of this first next session of the Council of Ministers' Committee of the Council of Europe. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6263	Thank you. The minister is also available if you want more. There isn't. kolega Živković, here, on behalf of the College will give one also brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6264	Thank you. It is not common to include the College in questions and answers, but we are directly called, and not to ask a new question, to introduce you to the follow-up. After we received from the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers a letter asking the Parliamentary Assembly to build a commission, we at the Joint College, so both at home, have considered this letter and have requested that the current activities of the Council of Ministers be delivered to us. We have information that there were eight sessions. We think it would be okay if the Council of Ministers transferred the responsibility it took to form such a commission, then informing of its work at the eight sessions so far, and at the next Joint College we will consider and inform this Parliament about it and see if we are able to make that commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6265	Thank you. This is what we ended up with on the second agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: 23 Ad. 3. The request of MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić are 5. Nine. In 2011, submitted to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law with a request to be considered under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Today, we declare a request for a brief procedure. I'm opening a motion hearing. Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6267	Thank you, Chairman. Here we have, during the debate on the agenda, dedicated a part of the discussion to this item of the agenda. I'll remind all my colleagues and colleagues again: it's a request for a procedure, so by a brief procedure. I have a need to explain that although this law is very simple, therefore it only contains four members, i.e. the content of three members plus the definitions of international institutions relating to holocaust, genocide, crime, etc., it would be quite logical that we went with the emergency procedure request, but here we also had the intention, although this law in similar content was previously the subject of our parliamentary engagement, but there was not enough hearing in this Parliament to adopt it – we wanted to give the short procedure to colleagues and colleagues the possibility that possibly on these four, or three content members of this simple law, eventually, give their suggestions, amendments, etc. And get an even better text. I'll just remind you that the laws of this kind have 11 EU members plus Switzerland. When you look at what countries they are, it's mostly those on whose territory the crimes of the Holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity have taken place. And here is the opportunity to mention that relevant international practice, and in particular the practice of countries with a similar historical situation as the Bosnian Herzegovina, requires the adoption of such a law in particular and possibly in particular BiH. In this regard, I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues to go into proceedings and to adopt the law of this content as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6268	Since there are no more reports on the third item of the agenda, I'm closing the call. We propose to the fourth item of the agenda: 24 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-14/11, of 18. 8. 2011 (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers of the Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure 18. 8. 2011 The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 5. 8. 2011 The Commission responsible for Finance and Budget Opinion on the Principles of the Bill delivered 7. Nine. 2011 I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Have there been any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the law in first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, this report is true, for 2009, as people would say, about last year's snow. I also received a 2010 report on agriculture and the fact that in those two reports, the 2010 report said that in 2011 there was much more to be done than it was done in 2010, because practically nothing was done in 2010, and we know in this 2011, unfortunately, that nothing was done as well. Why, first of all, we MPs want to destroy the village and agriculture and I don't understand it, because one of the strategic branches, such as agriculture, the preservation of the village and the production of food, is not interested in us in BiH. It's worrying, and last time at the meeting, I was talking about numbers, not to repeat how much debalance there is in the import-export exchange and how we don't have an orderly situation here. Here I hope that after the 2010 report, we will have a little more consensus on this and that certain conclusions will then, on my initiative, be adopted. And there's a thing quite clear what to do in agriculture. So, number one, all countries are doing it, so home production protection, especially when it comes to agriculture. In what way? Reciprocate against the ones we're working with. It is a matter, therefore, quite logical and clear, only a matter of political will whether we have the majority here in Parliament to do so and to the executive government, the Council of Ministers, order it to do so. 28 The second part is increasing incentives, finding resources. So we can also change fiscal policy, which is in our hands, that's what we do. And the third thing, I appeal again, the road map, the export of products of animal origin to the EU, we didn't finish it. 54 million marks now exported to Croatia can come into question very easily, as half a year before Croatia will start to apply, and this also threatens to endanger almost 10% of current exports. So, one of my findings is that the situation is not right. I hope we will form a new Council of Ministers or we will turn Parliament into a Council of Ministers and start doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6279	Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6280	Thank you, Chairman. So one part of the replica, the other part more adjustments to my discussion from last session. I see the Party has opened the front against both Croatia and the Hrvat in BiH and all Hrvat on the globe, but it is democratic, people have a right to their stand and it is not a problem. I was expecting today, so the party holding that portfolio will convey some practical experiences, but I see that they themselves have said that nothing has been done in this year, not even in the Federation. But last time, I criticized and withdraw some criticism after finding out that RS farmers had come up with a grant from the federal budget. How did that work out for me? I don't know, but here I am thanking you. The subsidy space is always large and large, there are needs and none, neither state nor entities, have enough money at this time, everyone's help is welcome, and from the federal budget subsidies to RS farmers are welcome and how it has succeeded by working for the improvement, I thank them and if there is room for this to increase even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6281	Are there others reported for the 2009 Agriculture Report? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31 March 12. In 2010, the Council of Ministers' material number: 01,02-50-19-567/11, of 15. Six. 2011 29 The BiH Council of Ministers is 15. Six. In 2011, the information was delivered. The financial and budgetary committee in charge delivered its opinion 7. Nine. 2011 The Commission has accepted the Information and proposes to the House to adopt the conclusions, which read: '1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to draw up and deliver information on non-involved assets as soon as possible on approved loans in the amount of expenses paid for unengaged funds -- a committee of fi. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Institutions Audit Office to carry out an audit of the Central Bank of BiH in the coming period." I'm opening a debate. Danijela Martinović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6283	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, Information on the state of public duty in BiH with a day... 31.12.2010, given an overview of internal and external responsibilities, as well as a review of the guarantees and responsibilities of the NGO sector, businesses and the population. I am sorry that we are not looking at this information in full with the annual report on the economic trends of our Economic Planning Directorate, in order to get a more thorough and comprehensive introduction to the economic developments in BiH for the previous year. From the presented data, therefore based on standard indicators of duty, BiH appears to be in the middle-indeeds' ranks, so we appear to be in a good position. However, other aspects concerning the problems of the structure and manuality of the debt, the dynamics and purpose of borrowing, and the question of sustainability, or the unsustainability of our borrowing, should be considered. According to our Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees, BiH is given a framework for the restriction of borrowing, and that is, when it comes to direct borrowing. So, the framework is 18% of the amount of regular income from the previous fiscal year. In addition, however, an additional possibility has been given to entities to be additionally in debt under the Budget Implementation Act. Also, a member of the 55th same law says that there is a possibility that the state will be exposed to guarantees of up to 30% of the value of state revenues. It means that in this way, with these possibilities, we have made loose limits of borrowing, and then it is logical that we have... responsibility and lower levels when it comes to borrowing in BiH. This same law in Article 5 speaks of the adoption of a 'State Debt Management Strategy'. However, the emphasis is basically that this text concludes that it is an annual state debt management strategy. So, the problem is that BiH does not have a real strategy, a 30 medium-term and long-term public debt management strategy that we would give a framework for borrowing in the future. For example, Croatia has prepared a mid-term public debt management strategy for 2011. – in 2013 and set out what objectives they are. Thus, measures aimed at stabilising the share of public debt in the gross social product, extending the average maturity and reducing the share of short-term debt. So it's important to reduce the short-term debt ratio in the total debt structure. She also developed market yield curves. However, Croatia has the possibility to issue vault records and has envisaged measures to protect against currency risks. There are still a number of measures mentioned and, unfortunately, we do not have such a strategy and we do not have such a elaborate measure. So we don't have a long-term strategy because we don't even have a elaborate public borrowing policy, which is the biggest problem. So we have no guidelines for public borrowing. Of course, that adds up to the fact that we don't even have a single macroeconomic policy, that we don't have a single economic space, that we don't have a single regulation of the financial system, or an adequate sectoral policy. In addition to the rigid macroeconomic framework provided by Currency Board, or the Currency Board, we are also deprived of additional measures in terms of stabilisation and public debt control. The problem is also in the scope of public debt. In order to obtain a real picture of the public internal debt, in addition to this information presented to us by methodology, we should, of course, have information about the war damages, old foreign savings and general obligations, but it would be good to have more precise data on the duties of our companies and the population, and also on some elements that are actually re-entering the entire BiH debt, which are consolidated budget deficits at all levels. Of course, it would be good to have a potential risk assessment when it comes to guarantees issued by BiH. Therefore, it is necessary to monitor the borrowing of public enterprises, not only to ratify borrowing contracts, so we need to develop measures for more active control of local communities' responsibilities, therefore lower levels, so that we do not only have to ratify contracts, but perhaps at some point we need to reach out to the funding from the guarantee fund to meet the obligations of lower levels, i.e. public enterprises. The presented State of Public Obligation Information also contains three scenarios relating to the state of service of external debt, i.e. according to loans already current as well as those in the approval process. But it would be good, so we need to have one broader real debt payout scenario, to have a more detailed audit of the purpose of each individual debt, hence external borrowing, and to finally have a debt management strategy that will take care of the scope and purpose of borrowing in order to maintain fiscal, or macroeconomic stability. Because if we keep this pace of borrowing without therefore deeper analysis, and if we're this loose, so to speak, we're holding an internal debt, we can expect a threat to our fiscal stability. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6284	Thank you. Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6285	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, as far as the Ministry of Finance and Treasury information is concerned, I can say that the information is quite extensive, containing 14 data that are quite correct. However, what I have noticed and I would like to say is that there have been certain errors in the information itself. Namely, if we look at the data relating to the gross domestic product, the GDP, the ministry has given us data that is not in line with the data provided by the official BiH Statistics Agency. Namely, what's this about? According to all this data, this estimated GDP is 27,991 billion KM, not 24,486, as stated by the official BiH Statistics Agency. According to these criteria, if translated into percentages, it turns out that BiH's debt is higher in its actual capacity, as I would say, by 4.5% approximately, and not as indicated in this information. It is quite clear that the meaning came to one, when these data were created, was probably evaluated in the way that the GDP was thought to be as it is, but I think because of the debt crisis that is coming in the next period and it is known that it will also affect us as a developing country, it is quite normal that these data are corrected by the Ministry, and for the sake of better information to the public, that the actual debt is 38.6%, rather than 34%, as indicated in the Information. That would be good because... we have real insight for the next period that is coming to us, so that the public can be adequately informed. Here in the Information this is very well said, a chart review of these debts, etc., we see that the loans that are intended, meaning in borrowing, that the largest number of loans are spent on infrastructure and public spending, while we do not have, so we do not have something that could indicate that the largest borrowing in the period from 2007 to 2010, which this parliament must also take into account, because it is obvious that this number of loans is growing, however not investing enough in the economy. We can really see from this that it really is not investing enough in the economy and that it is one problem for BiH. That's just enough to mention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6286	Azra Hadžiahmetović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6287	Thank you, Chairman. Here I would, with useful suggestions and given in the previous discussion, draw attention only to information on the state of public duty. So it would be good if we also had data on the business sector, etc., but still this parliament is discussing today information relating to public debt. 32 I will only take the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that this is the obligation of this ministry to inform the Parliamentary Assembly through information on the state of public debt, at least once a year, and that, unlike previous information of this type, this is analytically wider, it has included several elements and it is likely that the following and future information of this kind will add more content that will be useful to address this very important issue, or something that can contribute to a better understanding of the importance of borrowing policy as part of macroeconomic policy. What I would especially like to draw attention to, unlike previous information: this one has also signalled several red lights, a precautionary measure, above all, when it comes to internal debt and the obligation to address the issue of the upcoming restitution issue in BiH. That's one thing. Secondly, what may particularly be worth mentioning is a matter of caution when it comes to the level of sustainability of debt. I just want to mention that the sustainability of the debt, that is, the sustainability limit this year is not the same as last, at least, like a few years ago, etc. And perhaps this is exactly what this House can also serve as a precautionary measure in which to approach future arrangements, given the fact that this Parliament, when it comes to external duty, is only discussing at the final stage when the ratification process is under way. And I want to draw attention to another very important item for those who have little analyzed the structure of our debt. A good part of the debt in the last few years refers to a stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, which is usually the use of member states of the International Monetary Fund in terms of overcoming, i.e. debalancing, above all, budgetary support, etc. However, when it comes to Parliament's role, I just want to draw attention to the fact that this parliament has never received the information, never signed the minutes, or the memorandum, signed by entity governments in an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. This House has never ratified an agreement of that kind. And I appreciate, given the very specific weight of this burden and everything that is happening around the stand-by arrangement, that it would be good for this Parliament to request information, minutes, memos, etc. that we have this in mind when making future decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6288	Thank you. There are no more reports for discussion. There's also the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Treasury. They also heard these discussions and the conclusions we're going to vote on today. There's no need for any further clarifications. I'm closing the debate on the 13th agenda. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. A statement on MP Mirza Kušljugić's initiative that the House of Representatives in the agenda of the session, which will be held in September 2011 will include the point of 'Analiza 33 provojanja obligations which Bosnia and Herzegovina has made by signing me international agreements/contracts in the field of energy'. Ambassador Mirza Kušljugić is at the 7th session of the House, held on 27th. Seven. In 2011, he submitted this initiative. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications shall be 24. 8. In 2011, she delivered the Opinion and unanimously supported the initiative and proposed to the House the adoption of the next conclusion "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity to deliver to the House an analysis of the implementation of the commitments that BiH has made by signing international agreements in the field of energy." I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to the 15th agenda, I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 15 to 25 of the agenda is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. Please prepare to vote. I'm putting this motion to a vote and vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have accepted this proposal. The opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on approval for ratification has been given to you. I'm opening a debate, so all these ratifications. Have there been any reports of a hearing? There isn't. Before we take a break, I would also like to thank all the permanent committees of the House of Representatives, as well as the joint committees, which have enabled today's session to take place effectively. The College has agreed unanimously – it is now 11.50 – that at 13.00 we continue and vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6290	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6291	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6292	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6293	Come on. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6294	Since almost the entire SDP Club has an obligation that starts at 13.30 p.m. and that we wouldn't have to take breaks to make it go away, I'm asking that this break be shorter to get to the vote in order to get to that obligation and I suggest that it can be, say, in half an hour. There's no need to really have a longer break since we have harmonised attitudes.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6295	Okay, 12:30 vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6297	Bon appétit. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the 9th session of the House of Representatives, so we are approaching the vote. Please prepare to vote on the first item of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes of the 8th session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. We vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general and entity majority and one traditional voice 'against', so we have the general and entity majority. We adopted the 8th session of the House of Representatives. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: The request of MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić to discuss the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure So we vote on the adoption of this request for a shortened procedure. Please prepare yourselves. Vote, now! I'm realizing that we have the necessary general majority, that we don't have the necessary entity majority. 35 We're moving on to the Collegia alignment. There's no consent. Shall we go straight to the second round? Here's the vote right now, so in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have more than two-thirds of the 'against' vote from one entity so that the proposal that this law is adopted in accordance with the shortened procedure has not been given the necessary majority. So, of course, he's going to the regular procedure. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the settlement of obligations based on the account of old foreign exchange savings is about first reading, we vote on the Bill's proposal in first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Let's vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have passed this law in our first reading. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in BiH is in the first reading. We vote in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the bill in the first reading is not accepted, we have more than two-thirds of the vote 'against' from the RS. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH We therefore vote in the second round on the opinion of the Joint Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find... that we have therefore the necessary general majority and that we have accepted the Commission's negative opinion. 36 We move to the 7th item of the agenda: Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina We vote on the adoption of the Report. I invite you to prepare yourselves. Vote, now! I find that we have adopted this report and that we have the necessary and general and entity majority. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010 Glasmo in the second round on receiving the Annual Report. I urge you to prepare to vote and vote now. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6300	It's the eighth point.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6301	Eighth, I apologize to me, so we vote on: Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina We vote on the adoption of the Report. Prepare to vote and vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted this report. We now move to the 9th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2010 So we are voting in the second round on receiving the Annual Report. Prepare to vote and vote now. I find that the Annual Report has not been received. So we have two-thirds of the vote 'against' from the RS. 37 We move to the 10th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the BiH High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Council's 2010 report on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Aleksandra Pandurević on the 2010 Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which reads (as I read it during the session and during the agenda, I ask – is there a need to read again?) _________(?) There isn't. No, thank you. Please prepare to vote. So we are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament by Aleksandra Pandurević. Vote, now! Therefore, this conclusion does not have the general majority needed, so that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: the decision to extend the mandate and amend the mission of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Armed Forces in the operation of the Force of International Security Assistance (ISAF) in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, we vote on the adoption of the Decision. Please prepare for the vote and vote now. I realize this decision has been given both by the general and the entity council. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: Report from the field of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009 Glasmo on the adoption of the Report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the report in the area of agriculture has been adopted, that we have both the necessary and general and the entity majority. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's state of public debt at 31st. 12. In 2010, we will vote first for the Commission's first conclusion, then for the second conclusion of the Commission, and finally for receiving information. The first conclusion is, I will read once again: 38 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to draw up and deliver information as soon as possible on non-engaged assets by approved loans and the amount of costs paid for non-engaged funds – a committee of fi.' So this is the first conclusion from the Commission's Finance and Budget Opinion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority, and that the first conclusion is accepted. We now vote on the second conclusion: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions to carry out the review of the Central Bank of BiH in the coming period." I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! We do, so 24 votes yes, 13 against. We have a general majority, but we also have an entity majority. I'm asking for another vote. We have a right on behalf of the club, please prepare to vote again. We vote again on the second conclusion, the re-election. Please prepare to vote. Let's vote, now! I realize that we have a general and we don't have entities or, come on, we're going to wait for the exact numbers; but now we don't have a general majority and I realize that the second conclusion of the Commission didn't get the necessary majority. So, however, this doubt in the results of the vote was justified. We are moving on to a vote on receiving information. Please prepare for the vote and vote now. So this is just to learn the information. I find that we are unanimous – therefore not unanimously, but we have the necessary and general and entityal majority, without one vote 'against' – received knowledge of the Information. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: The statement on the initiative of MP Mirza Kušljugić to put the House of Representatives on the agenda of the session, which will be held in September 2011 to include the point of 'Analiza provostanje obligations made by Bosnia and Herzegovina by signing international agreements/contracts in the field of energy' We will first vote on the adoption of this initiative, and then we will vote on adopting the conclusion of the Commission's opinion on traffic and communication. Please prepare first for the initiative vote. Vote, now! 39 I find that we have the necessary general majority, that we do not have the necessary entity majority. We're moving on to alignment. It's an ex post adjustment. We are now voting on the adoption of a conclusion from the Commission's opinion on traffic and communication. Should I read it?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6303	We shouldn't vote now because we haven't finished this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6304	Wait a minute. No matter how we make a deal, even though we wouldn't be wrong if we voted. But here we agree, therefore, that, after a statement on this initiative, we are also pleading on the Commission's conclusion. Thank you. I now propose that we vote first on all agreements from point 15 to point 25 in the package; if this proposal is adopted, then we will vote as a whole. Please prepare for the vote and vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority for this conclusion. And now we're going to vote on giving consent to ratifying the agreement from point 15 to point 25. I urge you to prepare for the vote and vote now. I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have ratified all these agreements from point 15 to point 25. I remind you that the extended college adopted our calendar of activities yesterday, you have. Here you go, colleague Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6305	The chairman, until now, at least as far as I'm concerned, is that, all the sessions are over, and I've been here a lot in this room, and there's never been a dilemma about any vote. I can't leave this session without saying one dilemma about... today's vote on one item of the agenda. And please think of it as a college, I mean, we have to build these relationships here and it's about point six. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was a negative Commission report, last time we voted on it, it was general and there was no entity majority, it went into the second round. Today in the second round there was a general majority for a negative report, but there were two-thirds of the votes 'against', and you found that a negative report was adopted. I'm asking you, I don't think a negative report has been adopted, but please, I'm not asking for any discussion, consider it as 40 Colleges and tell us what's been brought in, I'm obliged to say this because I can't just shut this up, I want to get out of here when we leave that I don't have any dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-08-0.u6306	Yeah, I think you're right. A colleague of Džaferović's, we'll sort it out. And finally, here, so we got a calendar. We note that the next session is September 22, 2011. We are closing the 9th session of the House of Representatives and thank you for your cooperation. The seat's finished at 12.58 hours.
