ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5487	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 6th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. The session invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of certain NGOs. At the meeting, we also called on the auditor-general, Mr. Milenko Šega, to discuss reports from the Office for Auditing BiH institutions. I warmly welcome all MPs and guests. According to service information, 25 MPs are present. The absence was announced by an MP, Ismeta Dervoz. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we go to the agenda debate, I want to meet the House about the next one. For the audit report from points 1 to 62, you received a summary opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget, 30/09/2010, 11/03/20011 from the Office for the Audit of Institutions and you received a summary audit report for 2009. I would also like to note that the Finance and Budget Commission delivered its conclusion on the 3rd session on today's agenda on 08/07/11. Namely, the commission adopted the next conclusion on the review in the House of Representatives, the summary opinion of the BiH institutions' 2009 audit reports. Conclusions 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10, adopted at the 70th session of the Commission, held at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which reads – the Finance and Budget Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, proposes to the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, when considering the Commission's summary opinion on the financial statements of the BiH institutions for 2009, the proposed conclusions 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10, in part 4 of the Assembly Opinion – conclusions, to make the information and data contained in the above conclusions be taken into account, when considering the audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH institutions for 2010, and all due to the great distance between the adoption of the conclusions of this commission and their consideration in the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Since no one or here we have each other. Is this a mistake or not a pea? Here, the word is Salko Sokolović. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and welcome to all present. Here's to you, I suggest we bring this agenda down to two points.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5489	I'll only ask this one, we're on the same page. We've already agreed in the College to adopt a agenda like this, and when we come to the discussion, then we'll agree to look at everything in a single package. That's if you're okay with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5490	Okay, that's fine, but I think if we adopted the agenda now with two points of the agenda, it would be easier for you, too, so we wouldn't have to read all of this here as a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5491	Here I am, no, I certainly have to read it for a stenogram. It won't miss me, then. We'll figure this out right now what your intensity is, but that's what we'll do when we adopt the agenda and then after that, we'll come to a conclusion and we'll have a summary discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5492	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5493	Thank you again. Since there are no more reports, I will conclude that the 6th session of the House of Representatives has the next Agenda 1. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH State Service Agency for 2009, 2. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange (IDDEEA) for 2009, 3. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Public Procurement Agency for 2009, 4. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Market Oversight Agency for 2009, 5. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Insurance Agency for 2009, 6. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Postal Traffic Agency for 2009, 3 7. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education of BiH for 2009, 8. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Foreign Investment Promotion – FIPA, 2009, 9. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment for 2009, 10. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for 2009, 11. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Food Safety Agency for 2009, 12. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Statistics Agency for 2009, 13. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH for 2009, 14. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the 2009 BiH Archives, 15. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Information and Recognition Centre of Higher Education Documents for 2009, 16. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Mine Removal Centre – BHMAC for 2009, 17. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate for 2009, 18. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate for 2009, 19. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH European Integration Directorate for 2009, 20. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH for 2009, 21. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security, 22. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Return Fund, 23. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, cabinets and services for 2009, 24. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the 2009 Financial Operations Review of the BiH Border Police, 25. Report by the Office for the Review of BiH Institutions on the Audit of Financial Business of the BiH Ombudsman Institution, 26. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Consumer Protection Institution for 2009, 27. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the Institute for Accreditation of BiH for 2009, 28. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Institute for Intellectual Property for 2009, 29. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the revision of financial operations of the Institute of Measurement for 2009, 4 30. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Missing Persons Institute for 2009, 31. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the Institute for Standardisation for 2009, 32. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the revision of the BiH Competition Council's financial operations for 2009, 33. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre - Potocari for 2009, 34. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs for 2009, 35. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2009, 36. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport for 2009, 37. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2009, 38. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Justice for 2009, 39. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Security for 2009, 40. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for 2009, 41. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2009, 42. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for 2009, 43. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the revision of the Financial Business Committee of the State Office for Appeals for 2009, 44. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the revision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's financial operations for 2009, 45. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the review of the financial operations of the Commission for concessions of BiH for 2009, 46. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the review of the Commission's financial operations for the preservation of national monuments for 2009, 47. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the revision of BiH's Financial Affairs for 2009, 48. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Presidency for 2009, 49. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2009, 50. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of BiH Foreign Affairs for 2009, 51. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH institutions' Joint Affairs Office for 2009, 52. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the Central Election Commission for 2009, 5 53. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the review of the financial operations of the Court of BiH for 2009, 54. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2009, 55. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Plant Health Administration for 2009, 56. Report from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate for 2009, 57. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for 2009, 58. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2009, 59. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Office for Veterinary Affairs for 2009, 60. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Office for the Law of the Council of Ministers for 2009, 61. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the revision of the BiH Constitutional Court's financial operations for 2009, 62. Report by the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2009, 63. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the revision of the Project Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Friendship Building between Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina (HYPERB 1 and HiPERB 2), material to the mustache: 01-16-1-903/10 since 30.06.2010, 64. A report by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the revision of the 2009 budget of the BiH institution. So, I find that we have adopted the agenda of today's 6th session of the House of Representatives. I suggest we hold a joint debate on the points from the first item of the agenda to the 63rd item of the agenda, and then hold a special debate on the 63rd and 64th agenda. I'm going to put this conclusion to the vote now. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I also find that the proposal for a conclusion has been given to the general majority and the necessary entity majority and that the predstavnički of Representatives voted this conclusion that we are considering the package in the said agenda. I am opening a debate on these items of the agenda, and above all I call on the head auditor of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, Mr. Milenko Šega, to address us. Here you go. Here, first we'll hear the representative of the commission or the president of the commission. Here you go. Dušanka Majkić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5494	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members or representatives of the Office of Audit, I really think that here some opening presentation should be made by the chairman of the Commission, or chair, that is Mr Emir Kabil, who has not even found here appropriate that the first and second Deputy Commission on Finance and Budget reports that he will not be present at this session at all. I don't think that's correct, and when it comes to such serious issues, the chairman not only has to attend, but I can't believe he's found any reason that could have been disrupted, let alone not say a word that he won't be present today. But here I am, in the capacity of the first deputy, I have to say a few words, I'm required. So, the 2009 Financial Business Audit Report submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly last June, it seems to me 30.06 last year. What is significant and what should be known in particular to the new members of Parliament, is that since 2008 in the framework of co-operation with the United Kingdom Department for International Development – DFID, the review report has been processed according to the established methodology in accordance with the review guidelines and analysis of audit reports that taxively contain every step in considering the audit reports. This led the Parliamentary Assembly to begin a serious, responsible and quality way of dealing with audit reports, to draw conclusions, to be adopted by Parliament, the only problem left was how to include both the Prosecutor's Office and other structures, so that we could also be joined by us to have a final epilogue of what the audit found. If this SDA gentlemen aren't interesting, I'll wait for you to finish your dialogue and I'll continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5495	I will ask you all colleagues to listen carefully to all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5496	So, the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the previous composition, please bear in mind, from the previous composition, at its session held on 16 September 2010, considered and adopted, and addressed the House of Representatives a summary opinion on the audit reports of BiH's financial operations for 2009, with a proposal for conclusions. I must say that it is truly untypical that any commission will be held immediately before the elections, which will draw conclusions that will bind the next assembly of the House of Representatives. That, my objection goes to the dom sekretarijat, because it would have been different if this commission had been completely reviewing the reports, giving the whole proposal conclusions, and the whole house was behind it. Now we have to make a transitional solution that's not the best, but it's the only possible solution. So, out of the 62 institutions processed by the Audit Office, 28 reports were positive, 19 reports were positive with the emphasis on the case and 15 reports were evaluated with the reserve. I ask you only to pay attention to who these are positive in terms of the value of their budget and their participation in the budget of BiH. 28 positive institutions, which received a positive opinion for 2009, have a total budget of 143 million or 16.19% of the total budget of BiH. 19 institutions that received a positive opinion with a distraction, their budgets are 204 million and participation in the total budget is 23.10. And then comes the biggest group. These are 15 institutions, the smallest by number but the largest by value, that is 15 institutions that have received an opinion with a reserve. Their total budget is 532m and their total participation in the Budget of BiH is 60.61%. So we see what our relations are and how these 15 practically draws most of the funds in the budget, and they've had the worst results. The number of recommendations suggests that many institutions need attention. So, the report on the revision of BiH institutions allows for the moment the Parliamentary Assembly adopts them to become Parliament's power at that time. And the audit no longer has any responsibility over them. Until they are adopted, they can be subject to different controversy between us and the revision, but the moment Parliament raises its hand, they are Parliament's property and we have responsibility for them. The primary responsibility that Parliament will impose as a liability for public money behaviour. So, when this commission was formed and we analyzed the two possibilities we had, that the whole job that the previous commission had done would be repeated. You know that the election means that this job is not done, and then the late establishment of the House, the late constitution of committees, and finally the report that would have been processed in such a way, would not have a major effect, because many conclusions are problematic because of the time distance between what the commission was doing and what is happening today, and that is that 2010. Our reports are already on the table. So we felt that it was much better to put the concentration now on the 2010 report analysis, and to make sure that the conclusions made by the previous Commission on the 2009 audit reports will be taken into account when we analyse the 2010 Review Report. The Commission has proposed here a conclusion that is quite unsavoury, even though I think it is collapsing, because by citing the numbers that have been set here by the commission, it is said of the conclusions which have already expired. So it would be absurd to adopt such a conclusion. I think, therefore, I have a proposal to discuss that two conclusions be, first that the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the Parliamentary Assembly is proposing to the House of Representatives to take note of the Commission's summary opinion on the revision of the Financial Report on the business of BiH institutions for 2009, since 16 September, so this is a document, since 1609.2010. Others, that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Finance and Budget Commission to consider key conclusions from the Commission's 2009 Joint Opinion when considering the audit reports on the financial operations of BiH institutions. This would make a connection between the reports of one and the other, and we would not forget in 2009 but would refer to it if these conclusions were problematic in 2010. I really don't think at this point there's any point in going from institution to institution because we lack individual reports, so we should consider each institution and individual reports, I think, please, that Dom has an understanding that this was found by the Commission as a transitional solution, and that for 2010 you will have a summary, meaning both individual and joint corrective measures to be taken by the institutions, to fix something here. 8 So the big deal is waiting for us, we understand this is just a moment that is information but not a debate and that on that basis we draw the conclusion that I have suggested and that we start to consider 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5497	Thank you. Before we continue to work within this item of the agenda, so that there is no confusion or any misunderstanding, I am obliged as chairman to make only a few remarks. First, members of the House of Representatives held several sessions of the College by considering and negotiating how to prepare and organise this session. After that, we also had a session of an extended college where we also agreed unanimously on how to organise this session. Furthermore, all MPs at the House of Representatives were invited and informed of this session in time. The materials were delivered in time to all MEPs, including the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission. So let's once again underline that information. Before we go any further, we already have two registered debaters, according to a previous agreement, we give the word to the chief auditor, Mr. Milenko Šega. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5498	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests, all of you together. Well, here's how every year we finish our audit for 2009. What is very important to us is that the revision was carried out in accordance with our plan, in accordance with the Law on Auditing, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Institutions, in accordance with standards and in accordance with all, therefore, with the positive regulations governing this area. As already said in the introduction of the esteemed representative, Mrs. Majkić, 62 individual audits have been carried out. This is practically all the institutions financed from the Budget, which is our legal obligation under the Audit Act. Then we audited the implementation of the 2009 BiH Institution Budget. A year, as well as an audit that is not our direct legal obligation, but since it is public funds or donations, we can carry out that audit. So, we also carried out a revision of the Project Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Friendship Building between Greece and BiH, called the HiPERB 1 and the HiPERB 2. To note that the apparitions are the result of the work of teams of educated and experienced professionals, as well as of the Office's long-standing efforts to improve accountability in public institutions. There we had significant support from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and especially the commissions in charge of the audit issues. It is important to note that, through the publication of individual and then annual reports, the Office is seeking the results of the audit, which is possible to bring this closer to a wide range of users, from the Parliamentary Assembly through the audited institutions of the executive authority, 9 law enforcement agencies, the judiciary, the media, the public, NGOs, and all with a view to ensuring transparency, purposefulness and accountability in spending public money. It is also important here to point out that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which Mrs Majkić has already pointed out, particularly through the work of the finance and budget committees, has made a significant step forward for the last 2 - 3 years when it comes to the experts on the executive audit. Namely, one of the few is having its own procedures, i.e. a written and adopted document which speaks up to details of how to act on audit reports. This is certainly a positive step in both our and our narrow and wider environment, and it is already very much debated that these legislative authorities there also make and adopt a similar document. In the spring too, at the Istanbul Conference, I had just one presentation at a conference on the subject, which attracted a lot of attention and attention from all participants. So that's what I'm holding on to a very significant and positive step. As for the 2009 revision, I am getting familiar circumstances, here are the reports today, and on your benches there are already reports of a 2010 review, so, I don't know, and here I fully agree with Mrs. Majkić, how productive it can be now possible to enter now into individual debates according to individual reports, but here we are, here I am and my associates, certainly we will answer all these questions that are being asked. But let me still say something about the 2009 revision. As you know, on the basis of the findings, we make certain recommendations, which is what is in the public sector audit and the most complex and difficult job and what is different from a commercial audit that does not make recommendations. In total, we gave these reports to individual, 242 recommendations. We've established that 123 were realized or 51%. 80 of them or 33% are under realisation because some recommendations require a longer period of time, while unrealised recommendations remain 39 or 16%. In general, the most characteristic recommendations that are not realised in most clients relate to a inadequate internal control system, missing internal rules and insufficient application of the internal rules adopted, weaknesses in the application of the Public Procurement Act, weaknesses in budget planning, failure to comply with internal rules, weaknesses in the list of assets and weaknesses in the implementation of the programme of specific intentions. Since some of the findings and recommendations are repeated consistently and for several years we have suggested, the truth through a consolidated report and a number of systematic measures that would eliminate the causes of the repetition of certain audit findings. Number one. – Strengthen the internal control system, internal audits and central harmonisation units. Under number two. – To regulate, so to adopt the Laws on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions at all levels. According to our recommendations, we think we should make it especially for executive, legislative and judicial authority, of course by respecting specific or special laws that are, whether, lex specialis and which have regulated all the rules under all these laws. Under number three. – Bring the remaining sublaws under the Law on Payments at the level of BiH institutions. Because we have a situation where the Payments Act adopted in 01/07 came into force in 2008 and within 60 days, all sublaws were to be adopted. We still have a situation where not all these sublaws have been passed. 10 Under Number 4. – Ensure equal tax treatment at the state level for all employees so that they will ultimately all have the same salary for the same work, which is also an obligation under the Law on Payments, and I think it is a constitutional category. Number five. – Improve the work of the institutions of the system, professional employment, administrative inspection in the process of employment in BiH institutions. So a far greater contribution should be made to administrative inspection. Number six. – Introduce consumption and behavioural standards for frequency costs such as Retirement and purchase of official cars, purchase of computer equipment, representation service, PTT service etc. So, by delivering the reports to the Parliamentary Assembly, the Audit Office, as the esteemed representative Mrs Majkić said, has finished her part of the work and, as we do have the custom of saying, it is only one half-time, the second half should follow the reviewing of the report on the audit and withdrawal of certain activities by calling on the institutions of the system and on responsibility and on the activities to fully implement the deficiencies and weaknesses observed. I think the jokes you've received and in the form of this shortened book are very clearly described so I have no intention of entering now wider and more into this debate, we're staying here to possibly answer your questions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5499	I thank the Chief Auditor for this useful information. Beriz Belkić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5500	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Audit Office and respected guests. Of course, I'm not going to waste your time or my time, it's pretty much all said and it's all clear when it comes to 2009 and this is practically my only, so to speak, exit strategy from the situation that we've found ourselves in. The situation and the reasons why we found each other we could talk about, the practical problem here with us, we've been slow to establish ourselves. If we had done it in November, we could have done it right away in December, right? So, about 2009, you wouldn't talk about, I think it's very important for me now that 2010 starts now, that as soon as possible, and that the College and the Commission make a kind of plan, and that we don't go to wait for everything. We have 30 of those reports, as far as I know, so it immediately starts with a kind of continuous process so we don't get into a situation where we have 20-30-40 reports in one session again. So I absolutely support what Mrs. Majkić is and who has very successfully replaced Dr. Kabil's absence so that there are no problems. I see that this commission has been very agile, 11 up-to-date, and in time also held constitutional sessions, in time delivering reports. So, I welcome the work of Dr. Kabil and of course Mrs. Majkić and all the other members of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5501	I thank Mr. Belkić and to be precise. It is true that we have slowly established ourselves, but for the sake of the public and the people who follow the work of this House, this is what we are looking at today's 2009 reports. The last meeting worked until October 02, 2010. There was no reason not to adopt it until October 02, 2010, and this assembly will have an obligation to adopt the 2010 reports when it is delivered to it. Mr. Belkić, please explain further.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5502	Well, that's when you're pulling my tongue. So, when we received these audit reports, did you hear a little bit when it was said that it was wrong to even consider the Commission for Finance in September last year before the elections, etc. So, you can't get away from the fact that this synergy failed to establish itself in time and we have the bill now, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5503	I just want to tell Mr. Beriz Belkić that no one is talking about when or is not slowly established the House, but that this House should not be burdened by something that happened in 2009 and it was established in 2011. I hope we're all clear now. Šefik Džaferović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5504	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would first of all like to say that the Office for Auditation has significantly improved the procedures and improved the relationship against this issue at the level of BiH institutions. I want to give my support to the Audit Office and I think Parliament should do it, strengthen them, encourage them, continue to do their job. I think it's very important today when we consider these reports as a message to send to the Audit Office. The other thing I want to ask, or see, is not the question, I can talk about it, too, is the question, this is a review of financial operations, financial reports, what about impact audits, when we're going to have impact audit reports, because impact review should deal with phenomena, areas by pointing to problems in certain areas that would lead us as a legislative authority, and before that, the executive power to change things in these areas. There is much in BiH to suggest an impact review, and here I call on them to develop the maximum form of their activities. The third thing is a matter of concrete reports. I think the time has come, today we obviously can't do it, but when it comes to the next reports that will be here in front of Parliament, 12 to advance our work. We will discuss all these reports today, adopt the conclusions of the Commission or the conclusions offered, thus completing the work. I imagined the work of this institution, the right to tell you, like this, that it happens and works at the meetings of the Commission, but I want it to be at Parliament's session. To consider the report according to the report, so one session of several reports, a general auditor or auditor who has been audited comes, a representative or head of the institution who has been audited comes to him, and then a question is raised before parlament. For example. Why did you go into a procedure without a tender in that and that situation, as the report says. Here I am reading irregularities, I can't list them now, so here publicly at Parliament by the auditors or in the report it will be determined by us, the head of the institution that is audited will have to answer questions. This must be known by the Bosnian Herzegic public, we must all know. This way many things will remain unread, remain unsaid, and the greatest effect that the revision can achieve is if the matter in the analysis of the report leads to this measure. The failure is that and he, he reads so, so please tell the Minister why it was done so, here at the pay phone. And then let us evaluate. This is how audit reports should be considered, and I advise you as a College and all of us, when the next reports come that we put a maximum of five reports on the agenda. We have our sessions, five reports is, there's nothing more important, this is the opportunity when we need to see through the review of financial reports, and when the impact review comes as our institutions do. We don't have any other control mechanisms in the state. So this is the mechanism that tells us how to spend the budget, where are the problems, and what do we have to do to make the budget more successful? And here's mine, with support, so let's do this the way it goes today, these future reports, this is my suggestion on how to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5505	Thank you. The word is Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's exactly how Mr. Džaferović said she was doing the Commission for Finance and Budget in the previous meeting, and here's the only old member of that Commission, and here's what I asked for is to say a few things that here in this meeting of the House of Representatives today at this session, the new MPs realize that this has not been done by someone who wrote a few sentences, delivered to Parliament, and you now have to make a statement here. So in a previous meeting with Mr Bahtić, the Commission can think of him in one way as he thinks in his private life, but as president of this Commission, he has done his job responsibly. As a member of this Commission, I am responsible for saying this because I am part of this team that was working at the time, not only this audit but also previous audits, together with the Office of Audits, together with the Ministry of Finance, etc. In this summary opinion that you see here today you have in this statistical data for 2007, 2008 and 2009 you see progress in the revised reports of state institutions, meaning in financial business, precisely because the Commission, along with these two institutions that I was just talking about, was doing its job responsibly. So, we've made public statements, 13 we've called on representatives, mostly the heads of institutions, to come to a meeting of the Commission, we've commissioned a member of a designated committee to do a good report analysis, and then we've talked about both the good and the bad things in that report, and then we've made conclusions individually for each institution, and here we are here, summed up here today, we're considering this work. So I just want to get the impression here that the Commission, I will insist and I think that this composition of the Commission wants it to work in one of these ways in the next period as it was done in the previous period and that it is one, in my opinion, very serious job. We've done an analysis in agreement with the Kancelarija for Auditing how and how to do it. We had our own criteria, the DFID had that role in consulting, etc. So, we've made certain guidelines that we've been working on, and I think we've done a very high-quality work in this period, which has resulted in these sumptuous reports. But we have agreed that audit opinions are either positive or with the emphasis on one subject being carried out through a public statement, but these reports with one or more qualifications, simply put, the audit reports have been carried out through a statement, here are some suggestions as well as how further. Now that it was all in some grip of time before the elections, so the House of Representatives in the last meeting couldn't adopt these conclusions, my Bog, here we are dealing with it today, but I think this is through, analyzing this summary report to notice progress in the work of state institutions too thanks to the work of the Commission and telling the Office for the Office. I will never forget the Ministry of Finance and the vault that helped in the process, and normally the House of Representatives in the past meeting that adopted the Report for 2007, 2008 and eventually gave some guidance for future work, which gave strength to the work that the Finance and Budget Commission was doing. So here we have proposed certain, in this summary report and the system measures, how to overcome certain problems, it was mainly about internal controls, about public procurement, budget planning. We have foreseen here for some state institutions and budget cuts for the items in which they have repeated errors from the audit report and I do not think there is any reason why this House today should not adopt this and the Assembly opinion without saying the Commission's proposal for finance and the budget of the 3rd session, meaning this proposal that Mrs. Majkić has read today and that we can then already adopt this at the next session, and we have planned this, the Finance and Budget Committee's meetings started with the revision of state institutions' financial reports for 2010, and that these are all previous indicators of whether state institutions have progress or have returned back in 2010 but mainly that we always have in our eyes. What Mr Džaferović has proposed, so Parliament can do for me, but it is one big job, the only question is whether a smaller or larger group of people in dealing with representatives of state institutions will give a better or worse result when they are audited, considering their report. I think that a narrow group of people, and therefore there are commissions in the House of Representatives, can make these talks better, detect certain problems, propose solutions, then the House of Representatives can accept these solutions or do it and make a contribution in such a way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5507	Thank you. The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5508	The Honorable chairman, the distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the NGOs of course, because they are most interested in this appearance. And I wouldn't agree, but I respect everyone's opinion, if we were too late with the report. I don't see any difference whether this report is being discussed and that we were able to discuss it in 2010 or now that we are discussing it in 2011 or 2022. I'm asking each other a fundamental question. I don't need Mr. Šego's chief auditor here today with his team who made an extraordinary report. I need these people who are in the media every day, in the papers, if you're following these little reports without these audit reports, that's not a question for you, Mr. Chairman, or these colleagues, of course, everyone is following. If we follow what the public does. If we're reading those newspaper reports. As much as it's made there. I'm not going to turn Parliament into a prosecutor's office or a courtroom, so I'm going to sort out the ones that are listed there, and I've read this and I'm saying, hey, man, what is it? I'm asking a fundamental question and I'm doing it here's my second term. Has anyone in this country ever been responsible for breaking all these laws? We have that wonderful phrase when we want to save ourselves says political responsibility. Which one? It's Alibe's straw. No one's responsible here. No one's lost their function here. There's no one left here without a mandate. There's no one left here without privileges, no assistants, no secretary, no driver, no car, no wonder and no accident that our country is poor, there'd be helicopters for these guys, under the assumption that I'm not insulting anyone. I ask that question and we can have an extraordinary one, this really hurts a man's head, but I ask you all as colleagues, what do we get to stay for the next year, another one's convocation to consider this? What's going to happen? What's happened since all the audits? Is there a single person in this country, not underestimating any occupation or position, but here from courier to MP, to minister, to not knowing the director of the agency, that someone answered what he violated, the Constitution. The constitution broke. Stealing money. Don't make any corruption, it's imaginary. Which we're afraid to speak in a people's language that everyone understands us, because that people over there don't ask us to be academically express ourselves and us... some great scientific gathering. They call us every day and just the messengers that we are the greatest thieves. I'm not wearing that label ever, and you all my colleagues don't want to wear that label because you're not, I know you're honest and honest people. And what about those who aren't, who are in these books, who are printing these people? What do we do with them? And today we're going to make a nice apology here and adopt the conclusions of a folk old man, and eat the donkey wolf. I've been asking a key question for years, will anyone in this country answer anything? And finance is just the key to answering. Get that unfortunate guy in the pickpocket's tram, the police took him. This obviously someone out there, so I don't pick up who, because my head hurts, and I don't want to label anyone, I'm not the prosecutor, I'm not the SIPA, I'm the money, I'm obviously the one who took it, I don't know what it is, I'm not talking about those cell phones, and nobody's talking about anything. And now we're going to have conclusions today, which one? Who's going to make those conclusions, what for? The conclusion was this - Mr. Slavko Jovičić, you're a thief, if you're a thief proven it, you did this. And you will remain, not without function, but to return the stolen money from this 15 poor people and the poor. And this isn't a demagogue story in front of some, as they respected here, I need popularity. This is misery, I get sad when everyone calls me, starts with the press, and I don't know what. This is our theme. Whatever the report is, whoever he's processing. What's going to happen today, I'm asking you as colleagues who decide, raise your hand, and some of you laugh. What are you gonna do? Will you agree to that, I will never, ever, give, press this button there and say we accepted the reports. I'm not interested in the report. I'm interested in the contents of reports that process there everything that's been done. And then the key is the question at the end, what about these people? Is there one man in this country who was responsible for it? There isn't. And then why do we need a report, what do we need a session, what do we need a debate, what do we need this year, what do we need this for? And he says we've improved somewhere. We're in two institutions, five, it doesn't matter, but ten others saw that no one cares about it, that they'll never answer for anything and just steal. I say steal, get me brought to court and say I lied. They're just stealing. Countless Jaws, countless chaoss. And that is the essence of this House which, unfortunately, is not able and does not have that legislative and constitutional authority to put thieves in line and say, people so far have been, I don't know, a minister, an MP, a director of the agency, from today on, you're not anymore. And what you stole to bring back. That would be real, but that's not it. It's not democracy. We stand for those principles. And today you'll hear, I really don't insult anyone, I'm not interested in anything, I speak for myself, you'll hear great stories, demagogue, financial experts, but people aren't this institution where it needs to be explained. This isn't going to get into any big stories. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So I know what's good, we all... As long as he thinks he's all right, please, gentlemen, go to the press and tell them.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5510	Just don't communicate with the MPs, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5511	So please let you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5512	Please don't interrupt your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5513	So please, then I won't speak to anyone. I'm talking, and here I am. If it's boring for someone to listen to what I'm saying, please, gentlemen, go to the press and tell them if it's Parliament's fault. I don't think so, because we're powerless to prevent this thieving and riding. I think we're powerless. And we proved every year that there was nothing we could do. And of course we don't have any legal grounds either, I said, we're not the SIPA and the D.A.'s office. But I asked last and 16 years ago and those years to get involved in all of this sipa and the prosecution. When you gentlemen from the SIPA could be in Banja Luka in 20 days to determine since the ashtray was in the administrative center building, why don't you read some of this book here, you'll find some people? You're all experts. Find someone to perform, I'll honor you with my money for doing a good job. You'll be rewarded. It's the essence of our session today, we're gonna lose our day for nothing, and we've already lost it, and this session is gonna cost. What will be the effects for this poor people who have been stolen this way? None. Now that's the point, and you can read whatever reports you want, beautifully written. It's not an illusion of your professional stuff, it's an honor to you, but I'm asking what's the result of everything when we add it together and we see it in a dream? Everyone looks at the last digit, it's important upstairs, what's written ahead doesn't matter. Saldo's important. What is today's session balance translated into the simplest language? Saldo lost his day, apologized for nothing, no one will answer after this in the next year, not for last year, and then what is it? Then, if I were to finish this story because I can see that no one is interested in this way, and this would be the right way to say a lot more thieving in this country and stealing. Thieves steal.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5514	kolega Jovičić, You, as an experienced MP, know that you are at your disposal and MP's rights to translate your discussion into concrete conclusions on which we can plead by the end of this session. A colleague named Salko Sokolović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5515	All right, thank you, Chairman. Well, it's not this classic replica, although here's the last thing Slavko said almost rightly. So it's not that black, Slavko. Maybe now this is the fight against that thief you're talking about, and now if you've read the reports, you'd see that there's progress. But neither this House nor the Office of Audit and no one is here and I wouldn't let him be turned into a prosecutor's office, so we have an institution to deal with this business. Let him analyze these audit reports, this is also available in written and electronic form. Finally, by adopting this report today, we are asking, so the Finance Commission has already proposed, asking the prosecution for information on the activities undertaken, no one has sent them audit reports. Everyone can have this in their hands if they want to, including the D.A.'s office, and run some activities. And it's not just the state institutions in BiH that steal, where they're federal, municipal, cantonal, if this wraps Slavko's stories mean, and entity. And there are audits there. People do their job. So slow this down, now the question is whether it's slow or not, it's slow. But here's the thing, and we don't even have the Council of Ministers because we're too smart, we have all kinds of ideas, we want to do this, we want to do that, so we don't have a mechanism at this point to open a specific story. Let's form a Council of Ministers and give them certain tasks. And here you can see that the Finance and Budget Commission, meaning in the last term, has defined very much the Council of Ministers' obligations to work in the coming period to improve this job. Even if these public procurements for all institutions are based on one, it means if we do, one institution, which is the Ministry of Finance and Budget. So we can't talk like Slavko said, this is more of a demagogue approach than an approach to a concrete solution to certain problems. So if there is something concrete that should be proposed further, work to improve this House together, I said just now, the Finance and Budget Commission 17 and these two finance institutions and the Office for Audit, and there will certainly be progress further and even more quality. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5516	Slavko Jovičić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know where you fellow Sokolović saw me ever deal with demagogy. This is all I have personal problems, because I feel bad about watching all this happen so there's nothing we can do. I commend the Commission's report. He's great, I read it to people in the past. And that one, you said well, in the last session, Mr. Bahtić was wonderfully leading it with you, it was extraordinary. But I ask the question, what was the result of all this? That's the point. And it's not demagogy, Mr. Sokolović. So take this day when you go from Cavalry to Sarajevo to a session, read five newspapers, and read there what it says. The first page thieves, the other MPs thieves, Parliament spent a million marks on this, I don't know about the toilet millions of marks, for this and that, not to list all those items. Well, I don't want to be that, and neither are you, and I'm not accusing anyone. I'm just talking about Parliament's inability to take any kind of action to make this call, to put a stop to the thief. That was the essence of my story. Exploitation of people's couples and spending on all possible items. It's not possible that someone has an unlimited cell phone. It's not possible there's this many cell phones at all. So at the next session, when we get to the next session, I'm going to suggest a lot of conclusions. Why does a minister need to have an unlimited phone? That's a lot of 500 marks. The President of the Commission of ours, quite 150 marks. The President of Parliament is a lot of 500 marks of people. The secretary should not have a paid mobile phone from Parliament at all, etc., many items on savings. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm taking, I'm just taking examples.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5519	People are following Parliament's work so there is no confusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5520	Well, I'm just taking examples, talking about how it's going. So we can make an extraordinary audit report. This is good, I commended, commended the conclusions of our commission. I speak the essence of what the result will be. I'm interested in the result. The result will be a debate of barren, good, constructive, advanced, but I assure you, dear colleague Sokolović, I have never dealt with demagogy and at least you know I am. 18_________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And I'm speaking my mind. I never said I was asking for support from any individual, not even my own club. Of course, these are the things that interest the people. But I live with that people like you. And I'm reading in the paper this morning, and yesterday in the paper, and yesterday in the paper, all the pages to the website of the thieves. Steal this, steal that. People can't take it anymore, believe me. Maybe one of you can do it for some other reason, I can't. And I don't want to be on teams like that. I don't want anyone to label me, and every time I read the greatest responsibility comes from Parliament. It's logical throughout the system, both legislative and constitutional. But are we so guilty of what others are doing? So if I don't count the rest of us now, 8 of us sits at the club in the same office, 8 of us sits in one, we have nothing, I don't have any conditions. But it's not like I'm complaining and complaining right now. Look at the splendors of other agencies. How much did their lease cost, who did they make it all up to? And not to go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5522	Dušanka Majkić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5523	Here is never pleasant when a colleague from his own club is replicated, but I couldn't bear this story that Mr. Jovičić is telling anymore. Because he didn't realize the basic thing, which is that each of us is individually responsible for the state of the audit findings. You are not the one who will ask here, you are the one who will answer to the people who chose you for this condition. No questions asked. And we don't report from the newspapers. Newspapers are currently writing about 2010. Don't say it's not the subject of today's agenda. So, you've messed up a lot of things. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5524	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5525	So please let me finish. The responsibility for the situation is on each of us. If you suggest an idea, a good conclusion that will help the situation be, I will really support it. Parliament can't force the prosecution to do its job, but there's something that it can do. He can start a responsibility in his own party. Can you do that? The moment a political party initiates responsibility politically against its member, I will respect that and say so. Things aren't black to a white colleague, Jovičić, and I think you're taking care of it when you answer your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5526	... further with the discussion, and I just want to once again invite all the MPs in this House to try to keep the dignity of this House and all the MPs in this House as much as possible. [[Disable microphone]] 19 Here’s an example just yesterday we had a session of 48 points of the agenda. We've passed so many laws important to this country. Ratification of agreements, etc., and in the end today you get the title in certain media as if we were only dealing with butterflies. Well, I mean, try not to give the slightest reason and really keep this House's dignity. This is Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5527	I thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected Mr. Chief Auditor and members of the Office for Audit, esteemed guests. This topic, not only today at the session of this parliament, but otherwise since the BiH Audit Institution exists, seems different to me. It seems to me that many have not yet understood the essence of the existence of this institution. Many mix it with the SIPA, some with the prosecution, and some expect to be both the SIPA and the prosecution and the court together. As far as I understand this issue, this question, the Office of Audit, is nothing to do with it. This House isn't any of it either. The audit office is a very important institution, and it seems to me, it's my personal impression, that in our overall political and other conditions, not to mention, it's doing an excellent part of the job. This pile of paper here isn't an empty pile of paper. It's all printed. It has an assessment of the situation and has recommendations and ends the mandate of the Audit Office. And those of us sitting here can understand these recommendations, we can't understand, we can like them, we can not like them, we can succumb to the challenge of being sensationalist about the whole problem, and then we'll certainly repeat from year to year different assessments that the situation isn't good, but we won't move forward. What has so far been a positive shift, and it's visible through this summary report, is above all, I'm going to say, thanks to the Office of Audit. Because many institutions, so I'd say, are more under public pressure than under our pressure to correct their behavior in certain segments and get grades that are more favourable than in some previous years. The most common rating to appear, at least since I've been following this review office report, is the assessment that certain states, certain behaviours are not prescribed. So no one can answer for something that isn't prescribed. Is there any act in this country that says what kind of car the Council of Ministers Chairman can drive? It doesn't exist. Is there an act in which the president of the House of Representatives writes a car or how much he can use? It doesn't exist. And not to line up now. Somewhere I found information that at the level of BiH institutions, I think in these reports, there are some 1,500 passenger vehicles, so you gather a few of the institutions that we have and the number of members of the Collegis of both Houses and the number of members of the Council of Ministers and the number of agencies, institutions, so get to the maximum, maximum maximum, 100. I'm asking who's using the 1,400? There's not even a hundred. And when and how does he use them? Is that prescribed? It's not even prescribed. What's the kind of vehicle? It's not the same when someone's driving damage and driving, neither do I, Audi 8. There are huge differences in amounts. It's not the same thing when someone's driving on a travel warrant or driving whenever they want. They're huge amounts. There are huge differences. And that's what the Audit Office warns, very correct and very specific, if we want to understand. The second thing is that many 20 of us often do not understand. Because somehow we're sweeter to choose for ourselves, decide which car we're going to drive than to arrange. Look, I mean in the current Council of Ministers meeting, almost no minister drives the same car. From the point of view of maintenance costs, that's a special problem. There's so much color in the right use, here's a lot of mention of it as a problem. It's a problem because it's not prescribed. Who, how, why can he use the official phone? Who decides when to go on an official trip to the country, especially outside the country? As far as I know, let no one mind me, I think that in us in Parliament it is the most orderly, although it is not well arranged, because it knows who decides, even if it is known. And no one decides for themselves. In many of our institutions, leaders decide for themselves. And you see that you have today, today means in the technical mandate of ministers who spend more on the plane than in their bedroom. ... veryinteresting. But this one, but they're not wrong, no one's regulation, no one's limiting it. What class is flying by plane? Is business, is it, I don't know, economic or anyone else? What hotel can you sleep in? To what price can it be? These are all the costs that the audit has persistently, persistently, persistently warned. I congratulate the Audit Office on the real quality and good report year by year. Here's what I said yesterday about the Central Election Commission, today I can repeat for the Audit Office, it's not a surprise to me. So that's what I expect them to do. But the problem is, if we keep looking, then we'll keep asking the audit to do what's not her job and it'll be our alibi. It's the easiest thing to do now is to get a few numbers out of here bombistic and then wave, and that's how we're gonna entertain ourselves and the whole public, but we're not gonna change anything. So we have to propose conclusions, we have to propose measures to be binding on, which means we have to make a commitment to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers is an executive authority, he should be in office of this Parliament, listening to this Parliament. We don't have to do this, but we have to give him the job right. Is it the law, is it sublegal acts that must be passed with clear deadlines? And we must finally, someone said it well today, we must finally, when someone does not respect the conclusion of that home, whether it's from my party or it's from your party, it has to be removed here. Especially the one we have a mandate to name and replace. And as long as we're not, don't let us get the numbers out of here, because that's not going to come to a solution. So we don't need to support each other now. So we're going to know all these jokes, but if we don't pull out what we're going to do and at least do quality work for those who are supposed to do what we do, then we're just going to repeat the year-to-year grades, and unfortunately it won't change much. I'd like one more thing just to point out here and invite all of us together, so let's try, because these are materials that are swarming with indicators and numbers. That we at least try to avoid the trap of sensationalism in access to these reports. It's certainly not a good ally for quality work. Someone with cheap daily points, day-to-day policy, will pick up what they call, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, uh... Let's see that we don't have to call anyone. But one part of these measures that repeatedly repeats the Office of Audit, let's try to translate it into conclusions, into obligations for ourselves and others to try to prescribe certain behaviours, and then we won't have 21 problems whether the prosecution or other authorities, after someone breaks it prescribed, will call someone to account. This way, when no responsibility is prescribed, because no one has any reason to attach himself to someone's responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5528	Zvonko Jurišić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives and today's guests. I see that there are a lot more people reported for today's debate, and I don't think there's much need for this kind of debate, because we're certainly not going to change anything very special through the debates. The question is raised, so if this is about the report, meaning the BiH Institutions' Audit Office, here's to not adopting it for 2009, so nothing will happen, that we also know that nothing will happen, and that nothing special will happen. There were several colleagues who were here through their discussions, so they offered concrete solutions in the future, so how could these things work much better. I believe the Audit Office has done its job properly, made certain recommendations that are not necessarily binding on anyone. It is seen from, whether, I suppose, these are the budgets of these state institutions, agencies, directorates, but if, I am here how much time it allowed me to go into several of these budgets in 2009, so I saw, I saw personally that I don't really have too much knowledge about budget and finance, but it was possible to conclude that we have one charm when it comes to, so that spending side of these budget and state users. What Mr. Lozančić said earlier, this pile of paper here that we have, that pile of paper is a billion marks, a billion marks, so I might not call it, it's interesting here, maybe here and there's a minister of finance to say, let's say the Post Office. I see here their gross salaries are employed by the employee, per employee 45, or 50 thousand marks, and in all these others there are 30 approximately. Now, I don't know those nine employees and they have travel expenses, I don't know, 80,000 of them are 9, and we have about 25 here, so I don't even know 32,000 travel expenses. I don't know if there's an audit here, here's me, these illogicalities, possible these nine in this postage agency, I don't know where they all come from and who's by the expertise. For every day, what my colleague Jovičić said to us, you come out here every day in this hallway: how much are the representatives, the messengers' wages, whether they should be reduced? Here I say yes or no. But we had yesterday, yesterday we had a director here, the director means a state firm that has a salary chairing more than you and one chairing together, together. Here's something capable or incompetent. And we have the meaning of the mass of state agencies, directors who have receipts, if even here are colleagues from the federal budget, from the Federal Parliament said that in the reports, individual directors of the agencies didn't want to tell them how much they received monthly. We have an agency that no one knows what they're for or what they're for. Because I guarantee with one thing, what he says, domestic and fair business, that we can come up with substantial savings in this budget, that we can channel a good part of the funds, and that is why we have also questioned the adoption of the 2011 State Budget. So here it's true, that people from the Audit Office can be held accountable. So they proposed measures, proposed recommendations, what Mr. Lozančić said, so you should also prescribe exactly some 22 rules. And what Mr. Džaferović was saying, according to the report with the Office of Audit, Agency or Directorate, which is in charge of your salaries, what are the coefficients, I don't know, and here I read somewhere, I saw the audit that someone gave for March 8th, or March 8, each 200 or 300 marks... Based on what, is the Pay Law respected and is it applied to everything equally? That's the key questions, because we in the budget here have a guarantee that we have a million-dollar savings here. Mrs. Majkić said how much these agencies are, how much is part of the budget, so that we can use it if, in a much better and better quality way for all peoples and citizens. And not that it turns out all the time here that these parliamentarians, I don't know either me and the ministers at the Council of Ministers, are they, the biggest not to say both shovels and high wages. We have there on the other side of the poor girl, but we have some inefficient agencies, directorates that have and what kind of incomes, is that, just seems to exist. What is the content of their work, what are the effects is, what is the result on the ground in this country? That's how we have to approach. Surely these discussions draw conclusions, but should be, this is 2009 but 'for 2010 what counterpart Džaferović said, if we should be, most of us here and professionals, is whether, sitting down and report by report, Parliament can do everything it is, it is the most body. We are chosen by the people, can we, if we agree and change the minister and change the director of the agency, be it, as well as the High Court and Prosecutor's Council if necessary. Because it is, whether it means Parliament, and they are, we cannot say that someone is independent, he who is independent must submit an account to someone, and that is exactly what I mean by the BiH Parliament, both this and the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5530	Thank you. The word has Lazar Prodanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5531	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs, respected ministers and members of the Central Audit Service and others. I wanted to give, we have relatively little time to discuss what is unfortunately enough for us now, enough, long ago it is, uh, our business obligation, but I believe that this proposal of conclusions, which Dušanka Majkići proposed, should be acceptable to the House of Representatives, in order to consider the 2010 audit report as soon as possible and specifically determined according to the obligations of this House. I find it extremely important that key people from the Central Audit Service, the finance minister and the representative of the Ministry of Defence attend this meeting, I have now seen as the biggest consumer in this, the budget consumer. The problems are certainly, but let's not forget for the public that we are today discussing audit reports of only 10% of public spending in BiH, only one tenth of the total. Can it be done, so can it be done more? Yes, because I am convinced that these BiH institutions are expecting lightning from the financial crisis. And we have to determine ourselves. For me, therefore, the recommendations made by the Audit Service are acceptable. I believe that this capacity for joint co-operation of the Finance Commission and the budget to which the main part of the work should take place with public hearings and to give public insight to the arguments more, therefore not through the plenary session, but through the meetings of this public hearing and the 23 work of the commission, this capacity together with the DFID and the USAID, the OSCE as it has been done so far, I think it is necessary to strengthen and continue this process. This House should also send a clear message on how to determine and how. We have opportunities, it's key, the most significant law in a year that this Parliamentary Assembly has passed is the Law on the Budget of the Institutions, and we have to say something that doesn't and can't do this anymore. And secondly, we must put on, so consider the possibility of amending the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions in order to strengthen responsibility for segments where there are the largest number of failures. In addition to this strengthening of internal controls, in addition to the necessity of a more significant function of internal audit, we must establish, therefore, the disciplinary responsibility for the violations committed in this segment and secondly, I mean by law or acts, and the second part is a criminal liability... of strong abuse. The biggest problem, therefore, is the biggest comments, in the absence of such documents as the predecessors said documents that would define internal controls, as is the problem of abuse, i.e. the lack of respect for the Public Procurement Act. IVratić only come back with one more sentence, what we could do. Can we in this country reduce the money of 26 million for rent? Can't we, it's not just a matter of reviewing, it's a need in this country, can we reduce 10 million postal and this cost, what, 5 million teams, 20 million for the use of official vehicles? Can we, as our dear colleague said earlier, reduce that vehicle number from 1500 to 1300 or 1200, can we apply these funds to 10% more rationally and direct them to what would be the interest of this country? It is again a matter of political debate, here, in this sense, I believe that the House should, therefore, be decided, by the end of the month, by the end of the fall of the session, by the end of the autumn session, by the decidently on some issues, by the failures that are present, including what we have considered in terms of adoption of the budget, that what we can reduce costs, in those segments where it is not necessary. It would be a clear message, this part of responsibility we have to build with reasoned approaches and I believe that this part of the story we're talking about must not have a part of that, so we will protect our political. So, the first message... when we give a clear message to anyone who violates rights no matter who they belong to and how they belong and how and how they can be replaced. Therefore, it is only necessary to see how this has been resolved in other countries and how it is necessary to enter a more rigorous definition of the law-defined responsibility because of a lack of respect for the recommendations of the Main Audit Service. Or interrupt the audit procedure for investigative actions by competent institutions. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5532	Thank you. The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5533	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I hope very briefly. 24 In fact, I have volunteered to give strong support to the Audit Office, because if you see how small a number of employees do this kind of work, then it is commendable. Because if they weren't, they'd be made up by what the people would say. The situation in this area in BiH is disastrous because some of our officials, executives and directors of agencies, including ministers, prime ministers and so on. They're very irresponsible to public funds. Imagine BiH has around 80 institutions, agencies, administrations and so on. Each one has a director, each one has a deputy one or two, which means that each one has a driver, each one has a car, each one has a secretary, each one has the right to represent, and most of them unfortunately, over the weekend, organize drunks, bring bills for the team and justify it as, is, is, the cost of the team. When, you know, when you look at it individually, it's not a big amount, but when you multiply it by seventy-seven times and times two or three times as many deputies and so on. Then it's a huge asset. Of course, expecting law enforcement agencies not to behave at the very least, we have a situation, unfortunately, that in these agencies we have consistently negative reports from the Audit Office. So here's what we have, and I'm just going to set an example of the SIPA, and we have a situation where here's one of the few agencies that tried not to pay the rent for the space it's in, so they're going to build a building. You remember that I had several problems with the construction contract of the SIPA building. As a basic contract, it is not intended to go beyond one metre of all municipal installations to be paid, but the contract has to be annexed, so it has to be purchased, i.e. to buy parking land, so it has to be built a trafo station for this, for God's sake, because SIPA is a large consumer of electricity, so it needs heating, so it needs water and so on. So, you need to annex the contract once, come on, somebody may have forgotten, not once, but three times the contract is annexed. Here's the day you don't know what the total cost is. Well, for God's sakes, you know, SIPA is one specific institution, it should have video and every other electronic surveillance, because the main project provides for about 300, 400 or 500 thousand marks, it doesn't need 4.5 million for insurance and electronic surveillance of that institution. Why am I saying this? I've only cited this as an example, there are many other institutions similar and perhaps a lot worse, here's one I don't know about. Believe that the relationship between our managers of certain institutions is disastrous. Some institutions organize or send employees to the Olympics in Hungary, you know civil servants and pay enormous costs, here's a colleague, Lazar, who said that he wanted accommodation. Whoever's carrying it, who's paying for it, etc.? And if it's one institution and it's not much, but when you multiply by seventy-seven something, it's a huge number. So here I naturally appeal to, it seems to me that, yes, we are institutionally unspeakable. I hope that yesterday's decision to appoint a director and deputy director of the Anti-Corruption Agency may be that institutional supplement in terms of who we should see continues to work. The audit office said several times, here's a negative report or a negative assessment, what, who's supposed to keep doing it? We don't need agents to turn into some investigative organs or investigators or prosecution and so forth. Who needs that? The D.A. says, well, you know, we can't make it out of all the other criminal charges, the charges, and so on. Does that mean that someone else should do it? It doesn't mean that we have institutions to do it, but I'm afraid there's a button missing between the Audit Office, because it's public money, and for public money, anyone who spends it has to be responsible. 25 And, of course, I'm making a point on this lease issue. Here I am in this review that we have seen that this is about 13 million a year, here's 26 million said fellow Lazar. I'm afraid some executives who make lease agreements aren't interested in building an object in which their institution will be located. Why? Because they probably have a commission, of course, I don't want to doubt it, but I don't think they're motivated to handle it at all. That's why it's such a big lease. If you multiply that by 10 years it's 260 millins, calculate how much we could build in Banja Luka and Mostar and Sarajevo and so on. and of course do not pay the rent, have your own accommodation space both residential and here are business for the accommodation of institutions and employees. And of course the question of depth to which the Office of Audit goes. Look, every employee has the right to compensation for transportation, he has the right not to know either, to use the official car for official purposes, but every commander of any of these here law enforcement agencies drives the car home. And you can imagine even ministerial assistants are used to it. Besides driving the car home, they also have a transportation fee, for all those days when the car drives home and spends state fuel and so on. And they even go on vacations with the official car. I think we lack this public morality, public responsibility for spending public funds. So here, of course, with all the commendation of the work of the Audit Office, I ask them to really take care of these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5534	The word is Danijela Martinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5535	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. So it's very difficult now to say something after such good discussions and suggestions by, therefore, fellow. But maybe since we're chasing some concepts here, it might be a good idea to base ourselves on what we're talking about, so, that's when we're having discussions on a sentence that I gave us the Office of Audit that says there's disciplinary, public, moral, political and ultimately criminal responsibility. We need to know in some way the difference between this responsibility and seeing what is the best way and how we can call, therefore, the leaders of certain institutions and in what responsibility. Of course, we see by spending that there is no moral responsibility in most institutions, so there is a budget that is given to individual institutions, there are no internal rules, internal controls, and of course there are no moral responsibilities for individuals who should have more sense of spending public money. It is mentioned here and the negative opinion and criminal responsibility, we are aware that even in the paper it is mentioned that if the opinion is negative, then the auditors that it withdraws criminal responsibility. I would also have to correct a little bit of an esteemed colleague, Šemsudin Mehmedović, who mentions, therefore, a negative opinion. They are not negative opinions, but opinions with an emphasis on the subject, i.e. opinions with qualifications, and that is different. Therefore, the problem is that auditors make their 26 audit reports, based on INTOSTAY and ISO audit standards. Which means if an institution is to keep items according to accounting standards based on international accounting standards, then no negative opinion can be given. A particular object or a particular problem can be highlighted, and even though we do not have a negative opinion at all in the law of the embedded procedure as far as possible, we do not have in Parliament any further procedures in the event of a negative opinion. A negative opinion can only be given if the budget is breached, on the one hand, or if significant, therefore, problems, violations, or corruption and crime are identified. And only then could we call the D.A.'s office to criminal responsibility, but that's another matter of some other institutions. So, it remains a disciplinary responsibility, I have consulted colleagues who are familiar with the area and say that when it comes to disciplinary responsibility in the law, therefore, there is one item missing, which is that they can be punished, so the responsible persons in certain institutions, if again, so the word is missing – again, repeat mistakes. Which means we also have undefined rules for disciplinary responsibility. So it's the Council of Ministers,...ma'am Majkić
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5536	I will ask indeed the other messengers to listen
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5537	I'm giving one, I'm not discussing the report, I'm giving one framework, I'm giving one introduction which so far has been given by colleagues, so I don't refer to any item, nor to any, therefore, report when it comes to the Audit Office. So, I've come up with disciplinary responsibility, and I think that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance should be those institutions that we should address, which should help us finally define the uniform internal rules or internal acts, so that it's accurate, that there are uniform rules of spending. I think in that direction, and that action plan that you've provided us with, in which I really should and I think, I would ask you to speed up the very procedure of adopting the rules on spending and the way the phones and the official vehicles are used. Because it will be one framework so that we can have in the future, that is, to call for disciplinary responsibility. Of course, the missing legal acts, or sublegal acts, are needed in order to have some basis, that is precisely what Mr. Niko Lozančić was, therefore, on the trail. So what we end up with is, in the end, what my colleagues were saying again, which is these public hearings, calling for public responsibility, both ultimately and political sanctioning. Because if they do not come, therefore, ministers, regardless of which parties and people are from, therefore, I say again to parliamentarians regardless of which parties, if there is no political responsibility for both my party and this Parliament, I think that, yes, we will achieve little. But I think there's a lot of those steps that we've already taken, so one of them was in that direction, one of these is programming budgeting, as well as today's sanctioning institutions that have reduced the budget by 10, 20% if they've repeated mistakes. But in that direction, I think we should move and ask the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, therefore, to speed up the procedures for the adoption of internal rules. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5538	Thank you. Zijad Jagodić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5539	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests. I feel like a man from the economy and for the first time I'm talking about this speaker since so far, honestly, I wanted to listen, to hear, because by nature I'm a little and moderate, I like to listen, hear, and then say. However, working in the economy has taught me a lot, which I have benefited from, I have had results, but I also want to be here in this House. I'm glad I got the trust from the citizens and I really want to make a contribution to this work and contribute to what we are discussing today. However, when it comes to this issue of these reports, I must say that I have studied all the material that came to me carefully, read, and even what they say I sat all night because I was really interested in seeing what was going on. I'm a master of traffic science, I've worked in responsible places for 25 years, and I know what it means when something's wrong and something's wrong. First of all, I worked as a court expert, in court for such opinions when we say a positive opinion we logically understand, but opinion with qualifications, opinion with certain reserves and so on. or negative opinions, that's a little confusing for me, too. Thanks to us being intellectuals, that we understand what this is about, an ordinary man doesn't understand it. But also what I was going to say, when we want to make a statement, I don't know what accounting regulations are like, first of all, that the auditors are being handled internationally, I think it's very important to define two things, right and wrong. If it's right, we have a positive opinion first, but I also noticed that there are gaps on many items. But even in a positive opinion, you can say a positive opinion, but we ask that, that, that, and so on. But those who were drastically breaking the rules, and I'm going to indicate where, I think you should say negatively there and say that, that, and that's the thing solved. Because why? We are here in Parliament, I believe, I am glad that we have colleagues from previous meetings, but I would ask that in the coming period we all raise our voices together and really affect the change in this state. This is unbearable, I'm really in the economy, let's say from traffic, what does it mean when we go through the red light at the intersection, are we allowed? We can't. I believe that the same thing about spending funds, first of all budgets, we must not allow huge millions, first of all, to look at each other, I will touch my colleagues, Zvonko Jurišić, when he said in postal traffic. He didn't read well, we have 10 postal operators in BiH, of which the salaries are one 10,000 per worker, one 15, with a third 20. I mean, the Post Office of BiH has 20,000 marks per worker per year. Republika Srpska's posts from Banja Luka have people 10,000 marks per worker, Croatian Post Office – Mostar has 15 thousand per worker. However, we have private mail that has 170 thousand marks per worker per year. That we have to ask ourselves what it is, what traffic is it, who is it...? However, I know that most public institutions send mail via Fedex, via DHL or.... And you know how many envelopes from Sarajevo to Tuzla? 75 marks. In our regular mail, that's six marks. We need to take care of things like that. What I was going to say, for a moment please. As far as cost reductions are concerned, I believe that all these costs can be reduced to a minimum by 10% on an annual basis in all 28 institutions. As for the costs, let me tell the tenants, I'm really surprised that we have institutions that pay between 10,000 and 30,000 marks per month of business space for 300 square meters. It's incomprehensible. In a year, in three years to build a million-dollar facility to be 50 years old, in 100 years. No Niko's asking, I'd really like to, here's what I see in our incomes, or I don't want to talk first of all about 2009, I've regretted just commenting on some things, and I'm going to end up with this. I believe that in 2010, and not to say in 2011, all those in my opinion who were drastically breaking the rules, the regulations of spending funds, that they had to answer. I do what I'm going to stand for, it's at least to pick up the suitcases. They're people who should understand for themselves that this can't happen anymore. I think that we MPs should really make a contribution through regulations, through laws, to bring this thing down to one reasonable level, because that's the only way the people and the people who chose us will give support to us, to our work. And normally what they say about wages, although I must honestly say, I've been working on the stock market as a consultant earning twice as much as I have here. I spend my phone here, not to say up to a thousand marks, but all I want to do is answer my constituents, tell them what the situation is. For now, I'm going to finish this, greet you, and it doesn't matter what my final commitment is, and in any case, I'd like it to be known in which direction I'm going to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5540	The word has Beriz Belkić. Is the second discussion a colleague of Belkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5541	It'll be as usual shorter than three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5542	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5543	So I listened very carefully and was very helpful. However, at the very beginning of the session, let me remind you, we have found that this report, that these reports for 2009, we heard Mr. Šega, we heard Mrs. Majkić from the Finance and Budget Commission. However, we went into debate. No problem, here's the people said, I suggest we end this, Mr. Tomić I apologize to you, here I've been patiently waiting for all these reports, to make clear these conclusions, and these discussions we've heard are practically discussions for 2010. So we'll repeat them and no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5544	Boško Tomić picked up the phone, please. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5545	Thank you very much. Here's to respect what my colleague Belkić says, I accept that, and so I understand on the commission and what Mrs. Majkić said on behalf of the commission as vice president, I think we said our position and I hope that today Parliament will accept it. But I haven't had a chance to get this book yet because I'm a new MP, so I figured there's no negative opinion at all. Unlike RS, over 30% of the organisations and institutions that are audited are likely to have different criteria here. However, I have now seen that there is a negative opinion, and then, since we are not going to discuss it today, it would be good for 2010 to review a slightly different status, that is to say, in a different way to look at things. It is unacceptable to say that in one of the reports it says – the planning process is still not effective, the justification of travel orders is not carried out within the prescribed deadlines and so on. Four, five key things that give RS a negative opinion here either with a reserve or with an emphasis and so on. In this direction, I expect for 2010 that we will have reports in which the criteria will be respected until the end. Because if so, then it is a very good thing that there are no ones in BiH who have made a report that should give a negative opinion. In this direction for 2010, we are likely to focus much more on individual, individual reports for each institution and point to observations. I do not agree with the fact that we are listening to people, whether they have certain institutions, we are ours to find out, and all the services should also have the authorities to carry out their activities and it is ours that what Parliament needs to adopt, that those who account for being told before Parliament, or before the Commission, and it is the Commission that has very professional people and with a lot of experience and I think that it will give good and useful proposals, and in this direction I support the Commission's proposals, I hope that we will accept them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5546	Mladen Ivanković Lijanović answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5547	I thank Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic rule of business prescribed by the international standard is so-called. four Ps – plan, spend, check and improve. These are the basic four rules introduced by the ISO standard, the ISO Standard in each part of the business. So we saw in the report that certain institutions had no plan, and they had the means to use them. So these institutions aren't at all guilty because they had the resources available without a plan, so they could spend it on their own, and now we can only assume here, whether it was good or not, but it doesn't drink water. Therefore, an institution cannot be granted funds until it has adopted a plan, if it has a adopted plan then it is clear. The plan is being implemented, we have an audit that has done its job, so she checked it out and delivered exactly what we need to do now to improve the situation. And in the revision it is true and stated, but without a strong parliamentary majority I think it will be very difficult to implement. That's why I don't even want to make any concrete conclusions on this occasion, I just want to point out that we need to have a strong parliamentary 30 majority, or political will to do all this, so that this doesn't happen again next year. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5548	The word has Amir Fazlić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5549	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is simply impossible not to report on, for today's agenda on the BiH institutions' report, although this is 2009, but what encourages me as a new MP, it is a discussion of MPs who, without looking from the party, is a single director or minister of BiH institutions, and they look at both critically and commendably. What I can say in 2009 will, however, help us new Members to get pretty much into the subject and financial situation in the state of BiH and these institutions, but what discourages me is some of the negative things that are presented in these reports. I don't want to talk about these negative things much, but here's one of the conclusions that the Finance Commission has made to take this in today's knowledge might be the way out of this situation. But what I can tell you is, we had a presence on the committee, a great presence of certain institutions, and believe me, we couldn't even sit down, and I see there's no one on Parliament. It is a lot of 70 institutions, but I don't think that this important topic should be realized at least for 2010 or next year, so let's have two days of the session, we know at lower levels when we're discussing revisions in cantons in municipalities like these, how many journalists are there, how much is there, which is the attention of these topics. So I would like to say that in 2010 I did not write a conclusion, a 2010 session with this topic to be organised in a way that at least most of these institutions are present, but that this does not come down to the rank of secretary, assistant, but responsible persons. It is important for us that they hear what we are saying, and it is important for us that they hear certain measures, not only to get them in terms of the conclusions in writing, but to hear them, however, the MPs are responsible. After a year, we will be assessed how much anyone has discussed, what his discussion has contributed to Parliament's work. But believe me, if we just give them this through the conclusions and it repeats itself then, then we won't have a good situation. Here I will repeat a few things although a lot has been said, but indeed the salaries are in this report of the auditors, although the auditors have really done a lot of things, although I commend the work of this institution, the salaries are shown there in gross, I would still like these seventy responsible people to see what their wages are online, in gross, which are the costs of representation, cell phones and all that. A lot is shown, but at least in one table view. We know in politics when there's something he doesn't want to see, so through the number of pages he hides, let's give it a little tabular so we can see it, so let's compare the MPs we're answering, who we're bringing, who we're voting for these reports with those responsible faces. In any case, I realize that the Audit Service really, that their reports are improving the situation every year, has its effect. However, Bosnia does not have enough time to wait 10 years for us to have some effect that satisfies the situation in the EU, but we want it to go a little faster and a little further. Here is a suggestion that in 2010 the 2010 reports will be accompanied by a full room of responsible persons, I would conclude my discussion and support that 31 of the proposal, which has been presented to take this into account and that the conclusions of the 2009 commission will be taken into account when we consider 2010. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5550	I thank my colleague, Fazlić, and for his word, Finance Minister Mr. Vrankić, appears. Here you go. Here's to those who have spoken today that there is no Council of Ministers, you see that there is a Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5551	Yes, yes, honourable MPs, I welcome you all to the presidency. I'm here, and I think this is a very important session, in the agenda, and that's why I'm here, and everyone's estimated whether it should or shouldn't be. What someone said here – reviewing is not a court, it's not black – white, you're not guilty, we're all in one job together. The audit is one of the independent pillars, an institution in our country and I'd say her findings are an intigator of the state of the system assessment we're in. It should draw conclusions and I don't think anyone can get out of responsibility, what's good we all share together, what's not good, we all have to share it together, of course, from each other's point of view and from our own level of responsibility. What's very important to me here, and that's that we're through, we could see through this independent audit finding that's in function means showing the right state of functioning of the entire system and the relationship to the system, in one way giving us recommendations on how to fix it and how to move forward. What's important is to conclude if we compare ourselves or I can say, here's a minister who, now may be the last session of Parliament I take part in as a minister, that's a big difference four years ago and now. Well, that's a huge difference, that's what we have to say, admit, and it's like that everywhere. Well, I like to say that when it comes to accounting and finance it was four, five years ago a fissile system, uh, it was all on one card that came in, came out, paid off, everybody drove what he wanted, went back, went away, traveled, and so on. Today it is not so, it is not nearly so in my ministry, and especially what we last concluded when we said – that the Ministry of Finance should be a coordinator between, meaning, audits, or Parliament and users. We took that part on ourselves and I think we've coordinated very well and we've done a lot of work in this period. I'll just say we've prepared a lot of regulations and a lot of decisions. And what you mentioned today, here's just more information, that we have three regulations, that's about the use of official cars here... that mentions, so representations, so use of the phone and so on. We made all the regulations and delivered them to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers of the same, I must say, has not yet spoken of them, some colleagues thought we shouldn't do it like we shouldn't burden our colleagues behind us, so let them come and do it properly. I mean, here, but I still thought we should bring it in and not look back. We also have a Council of Ministers addressed, meaning two decisions made, a decision on separate lives and a decision on official travel. So here's the fact, I thought there was most of the objections, but here's the thing we've designed in one way, and it's probably going to need to be done. Um, it's impossible to do ideally for all the circumstances, so I would conclude with maybe one thought, that we have to do and analyze the application of the law. From this application of the law, we see what needs to be upgraded, what 32 should be repaired and new laws passed. And what we usually call it is whether, reform so this little when it comes to whether people in BiH are going to say structural reforms, so help us a little. So one of these colleagues was saying, I don't know anything there, I don't know the system of coordination, monitoring or monitoring, so four million euros. We show it all through the budget, and often we don't affect it, because someone else is doing it, but it's our reality, they came to us, we're looking for them, so when something looks like that, we can look at something and fix it if we're able to impose ourselves in that process, but here's what I think that's why we're doing it. And I think that's where we have to keep trying to make those decisions, and here's the way these regulations are made, the decision is to actually improve that system. And of course, the transparency shown through these reports, I think it's a basic, democratic postulate, and everyone has the right to criticise, and why don't the citizens see what we spend, how much we spend, someone can be a little, someone can be a lot. And I'm going to say that this, a lot of things depend on us how we're going to fade the audit when we're doing a revision for 2011. We have no budget, what that effect will look like, and for the first time since this coordination of the Ministry of Finance, the audit and you from the Parliament of this Commission have already been sent for requests for the 2011 budget. One effect urn that everyone has to do in all the programs so that we can get out of it for next year something that will be complete for all the budget users. There's progress, it's not enough, we have to go together, it'll be better. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5552	I thank you for the additional clarifications made by the finance minister, Mr Dragan Vrankić. In the end, Milenko Šego, the chief auditor, answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5553	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5554	These are very serious topics and really find extra patience to listen to everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5555	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really going to say very briefly, I think it's correct to answer some of the questions that are raised here. First of all, I thank you very much for the very constructive discussions, at the support of the Office, for supporting our work, although believe me, the fact that we will not be supported will not prevent us from doing our job. So we're professionals, we have law and so on. And we'll be doing our job all the way. The question was raised here at the very beginning – what about the impact review, in which we are time and so on.? I can tell you that the Audit Office is introducing an impact review, we've already carried out two impact audits, and that's what you discussed at this House in some earlier assembly. We now have two impact audits under way, one of them at the very end, and it concerns the lease of business premises for BiH institutions. There's been a lot of debate here and a lot of questions on this subject, and I think that 33 revisions will give answers to many of these questions today, so we'll be able to discuss this issue more fully then. There was a question of responsibility mentioned here, and it's a good thing it's been mentioned. Because we always need to ask that question, given that the revision is not our own goal, we have done nothing if we have completed the audit of the institutions, delivered it to the Parliamentary Assembly and if that is what we care about. So the institutions of the system are on the move, first and foremost the Parliamentary Assembly. In these reports there's this power needed, so I say, some kind of engine of some kind of horsepower, that means it needs to start and run. If the engine stands shut down none of that has any, you are still on the move, you must run system institutions in order to also question the responsibility and implementation of our recommendations to a reasonable extent. Also here there have been a lot of speeches about, I think Mr. Lozačnić talked about, about the unique rules we keep writing about in each of our reports containing one such assessment, assessment, qualification, the problem is that there are no single rules of consumption so we really, we call it, an inappropriate situation to say the director of some minor, although there is no minor agency in terms of its importance, but by budget and by capacity, there are some costs greater than, say, more expensive and more expensive car than the member of the Presidency, a member of the College and so on. So, for all of this, there are unique rules, we write about it. So it is up to the institutions of the system to make such rules. Here are also mentioned some individual, uh, agencies, postal services agency, SIPA and so on. I really couldn't talk about it individually at this capacity right now. I think he described everything in our reports. The question of progress, the question of whether the situation is better, whether it is progressing, whether it is stagnating. I think Mr. Vrankić, the finance minister, quite well assessed it and said it. So if the revision is viewed in continuity then we really do have, we have huge progress. The question of opinion is, as we know, a matter of professional judgment from the auditors. It is independent and I think that compared to the Chief Service or I don't know the Federal Office, the Brcko District, this one, can't always be compared because the situation is really different, heterogeneous is the composition of institutions and clients that are audited on entities and at state level. We at the state level mean we only have budget users where it's set up very well, I have to say, the main book of vaults, where many things work, of course that should be improved, we make recommendations in this sense. It is not possible, therefore, to break the budget, therefore, and on entities as you know we also have public companies, business on the market, showing profits etc. forests, waters, telecoms. There's a situation I have to say is really more complex, more confusing, so if someone was talking about a negative opinion, it comes from one of those, from one of those connotations. Although I don't believe it's 30% of it. We have unique guides at the level of all three, all three institutions, we do the same, the same are the basics. Therefore, it is exactly the same situation when it comes to accessing this, in the affairs of the audit itself. That's it, thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-1.u5556	Thank you. I find that there are no further requests to discuss these points of the agenda. I'm closing the debate. I'm opening a debate within the 63rd agenda, Ad. 63. Report from the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the revision of the Project Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Friendship Building between Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina (HYPERB 1 and HiPERB 2), material to the mustache: 01-16-1-903/10 of 30.6.2010. We received a report on 30.06.2010. The Commission's opinion on finance and the budget is 21.09.2010. The Commission accepted the recommendation report contained in it and proposed that it be adopted by the House. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 64th item of the 6th session of the House of Representatives, Ad. 64. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the 2009 Budget of the BiH Institution
