ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u852	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, respected media representatives warmly welcome you and I am opening the 8th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 delegates present at the session, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. For reasons justified, Mr Dragan Čović is unable to join the session, but we have an announcement that he will join in the course of the session. For the 8th session of the House of Nations, the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Legislative questions and answers to Legislative questions; 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act; 4. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material of the BiH Presidency No: 01,02-16-1-867/11 of 03.08.2011; 5. Audit report on the 2010 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions No: 01-16-10711 of 13.10.2011; 6. P stormy review of the implementation of activities from the Action Plan for the Implementation of Priorities of the document European Partnership with Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 01.01.2011 to 30.06.2011, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH No: 03/4-06-909/11 of 31.08.2011; 7. And the report on the state of implementation of the Interim Agreement/Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the period 01.01.2011 to 30.06.2011, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers No: 03/4-06-909/11 since 31.08.2011; 8. Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH No: 01,02-06-1132/11 of 02.11.2011; 2 9. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2010; 10. Report on the Commission's work on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication at the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2010; 11. Report on the work of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2010; 12. Report on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH for 2010; 13. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on the surveillance of the work of the BiH Security Agency for 2010; 14. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics for 2010; 15. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development for 2010; 16. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on BiH's European Integration; 17. And the report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs for the period 01.01. to 31.12.2010; 18. P of the draft conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, the proposal of the Joint College of both homes, issue: 01,02-50-12-18-6,1711 of 08.12.2011; 19. Proposal for a Commission's Opinion on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communication to the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH concerning the term of office of BHRT Management Board members from the Serbian and Croatian peoples; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to taxes and income on property and the prevention of tax evasion; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the "IPA Adriatic Programme of Cross-border Co-operation" under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Greece on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property tax; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Joint Convention on the Security of Exhausted Fuel Management and Safety of Radioactive Material Management; 3 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes and property income taxes; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the resolution of the debt of the Republic of Albania and the settlement of amounts on the basis of the trade in goods between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; 28. The approval of the ratification of the Funding Agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Main, Germany, and the Government of the Swiss Confederation, represented by the State Secretariat for Economic Relations (SECO), and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, for 900,000 euros in preparation of the programme – Water supply and management of waste water in BiH II (Tuzla, Zenica, Travnik) which is financed by the German Government and the Vlada of Švajcarska; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the multi-user Tempus programme under the IPA component of transition and institution building for 2010; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Water and Waste Water Infrastructure - between the European Investment Bank and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Co-operation in Education and Science; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank – Project of the Republika Srpska-A HospitalA. ovaj is a harmonised agenda of the College of the People's House. Is anyone answering for a word and there are any amendments and additions to this agenda? There's no sign-up on my record board. Thank you. If there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda, it shall be adopted and not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're voting on the 7th session minutes, please. 4 I thank you, according to this agenda item in the first round of 14 delegates, for the vote of 14 delegates, meaning Federation 9, from Serbia 5. And since there is both the general and the entity majority, I am finding the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u855	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I am not satisfied with the response I received from the foreign ministry, I repeat, I am asking for a detailed report on the effects of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs's economic diplomacy, because I believe that the answer made up of eight pages clearly does not reflect what it is, or is not done in the area of economic diplomacy. I demand a precise, precise response for the 2006 period. - 2010. And their response to the Foreign Ministry Act was sent and admitted to the BiH Presidency, now to rephrase and so on, so I ask the BiH Presidency – When will the Foreign Ministry Act be passed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u856	I thank my colleague, Kapetanović. Your findings will be transmitted to designated addresses along with a stenographic note. A esteemed colleague, Josip Merdžo, came forward. Here you go, Comrade Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u857	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues and all the others I welcome you, so the fact is that I have received an answer to the parliamentary question, but what has been addressed in this House 5 is not in this House either, nor has my destiny begun in this House, as ordered by the BiH Constitutional Court. The reminders are about the order to expire within 6 months, and that deadline expired a few days ago, approaches amendments to the Election Law that treat certain things when it comes to selecting council members in the City Council of Mostar. Given that there is enough time to the timing of the election, I appeal to the College of both homes to reconsider the issue and refer to the procedure, how much information I have on the Interresor Commission has discussed the issue, however, there was no consensus. So by the time the elections are called, we have quite enough time for the BiH Parliament to respect the Constitutional Court Decision, and in that sense, I would ask the College of the House of Nations, or the Joint College, to take additional efforts to ensure that the Constitutional Court's decision is respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u858	I'd like to thank my colleague, Merdžo. Mrs. Krišto didn't report her involvement, okay. Now we start with the following content of this agenda point, by asking new delegates questions. Dear colleague Krunoslav Vrdoljak came to the floor. Here you go, colleague Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u859	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have two questions, first it's the Council of Ministers and it's about Lake Accumulation Busco mud in the area of Livna and Tomislavgrad. It's been a long time since '91. Even before that, the compensation for the use of this hydroaccumulation that the HEP of the Republic of Croatia should settle to local self-government, as well as to the state of BiH, is completely inappropriate. This fee is still carried out under the Federation's law on the separation of part of the income of the company that uses hydroaccumulations, and this comes down to about 5 million marks currently for the Municipality of Livno and Tomislavgrad, which, by the logic of things, may be one tenth of the real fee. The example works, the last document, an act that regulates this matter is the Decision of the Ministry of Environment of the Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia of '96. In the year since then, the Republic of BiH has done nothing about it. And for example, the installed force on Lake Buška, i.e. on the hydrocenter that uses the water of Lake Buško, is somewhat larger than the hidrocentrala plat, or Dubrovnik. The plant uses water from Trebinj, and is installed in the Dubrovnik region, charges to Republika Srpska for this less installed force are 70 million marks annually, and Livno and Duvno receive about 5 million. The question, therefore, to the Council of Ministers – does it intend to regulate the issue of HEP and the Republic of BiH's relations by interstate agreement, because it should still be state level? And the second question, that's the question, as a member of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, I had the opportunity to get to know the work of these security agencies, ministries and so on. The issue I refer to the Ministry of Defence, namely, at these sessions, it could be noted that members of the Armed Forces of the Serb people are absolutely dissatisfied with the state and relationship when it comes to their rights in relation to the rights of the other two peoples. The example works from 2007 to today 6 has been promoted from the rank of soldiers to the rank of General 744 Bošnjak, 846 Hrvat and 200, only 230 Srbin. I don't think this is a good situation and something needs to be regulated when it comes to this. The reason for this is a different resolution of pension rights under the Law of pension disability insurance of the RS and the Federation, but the fact that this is a fear will not last long. The question therefore to the Ministry of Defence, solutions, proposals for solutions exist and are offered to the Ministry of Defence – Is it doing anything to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u860	I thank Mr. Vrdoljak. Of course the questions will be forwarded, delegates please consider the duration for, time to ask one question for 3 minutes. So here's why we might stick to that frame. Thank you. The word came from a distinguished colleague, Borjana Krišto. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u861	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u862	I'm just asking you to wait, can we repeat the procedure since I see that your application has now been removed from my monitor. Do you have a signal, it's on, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u863	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Deputys, Dear Guests, I warmly welcome all of you, and I, within this item of the agenda, wish to ask one delegation question to the Constitutional Court of the Federation of BiH, which reads: How many decisions of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court have been made, or implemented, and how much has not been carried out in view of the fact that the Constitution of the Federation is known who is in charge of the execution of the same? In particular, all bodies within the Federation of BiH are obliged to implement the decisions of the Court within the framework of their competences laid down by the Constitution and by law, the authority which is obliged to implement the Court's decisions and to notify the measures taken with a view to implementing the Court's decisions. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Federation of BiH in cases of non-compliance, i.e. delays in the execution or reporting of the Court of Justice on the measures taken, provides solutions which determine that the Court's decision has not been made. In this context, I ask myself, have the measures been taken in cases of non-execution and whether the solutions taken have been delivered to the competent prosecution, or to another authority responsible for the enforcement of which the Court has designated? At what stage are legal proceedings mentioned above? Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u864	I thank Mrs. Krišto. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović, please welcome Nermin.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u865	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer to the BiH Council of Ministers – When will the Council of Ministers decide on the establishment of the Missing Persons' Support Fund in accordance with Article 15(2). The Missing Persons Act published in Official Messenger of BiH number 50/4? Therefore, in accordance with Article 15. The law on missing persons, and for the purpose of ensuring the resources and implementation of the rights of members of the missing persons' families, a missing persons' fund was set up to support families of missing persons in BiH. The position of the second member found that a decision on the establishment of the Fund would be taken within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law by the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Missing Persons Act came into force on 17 November 2004. And since then, the Council of Ministers has not made the stated decision. Although decisions by the BiH Constitutional Court have established the obligation of the BiH Council of Ministers to comply with this legal obligation, this has not been done so far, so I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to provide a written response to my delegate issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u866	I thank my colleague, Kapetanović. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u867	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question will be addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. According to data in BiH, around 33, 33,650 tonnes of meat and slaughterhouse products worth around 120 million KM were imported for the first 11 months of this year. Domestic producers in the total meat market participate with only 10 to 15% in the most difficult situation are domestic producers who rely exclusively on domestic livestock production. I am interested in the following: Is this import controlled and whether the quality of imported meat has been established and what can be done and what is being done to stimulate domestic production and reduce imbalances in external trade in this area? I'm looking for a written answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u868	I thank my colleague Rodić. 8 For the word further appeared the esteemed colleague Krstan Simić, here you are, Mr Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u869	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, as the Secretary-General is not here at this time and it is said: Does BiH take any action and can more be done here to access the BiH-Croatia bridge in the Novska zone as soon as possible to get a modern roadway connecting BiH with a highway in a suitable place? Thank you. It's written in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u870	Thank you, fellow Simić. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić, please welcome colleague Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u871	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, guests, good afternoon, everyone. I have one question and two initiatives. I refer the first question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the World Bank estimates that the situation in BiH is becoming alarming and that GDP growth(?) in BiH next year could be 1%, and the situation could be even worse if the situation in the euro zone expands. How does BiH prepare for very certain negative effects of the crisis and does it have any indication of the continuation of the IMF and World Bank arrangements? The initiative, this year's calendar is at an end and we've been working on it, we haven't been working on the program, which is perhaps understandable if we take into account the period of our constitution, it wouldn't be understandable and it would be good if we worked on it without even a framework programme in 2012, so I suggest that the College of the House propose one such framework programme and one such document and deliver it to us for consideration and adoption. I don't think he should be dispersed, it could be an ordinary mustra who's going to be a living thing all year long, and that's certainly going to suffer the corrections. Another initiative, the institutions of the state including these parliaments, is a series of nepotisms, so from related, friendly methods of employment in them. Practice shows that these are not the smartest and most valuable employees, and they are a good basis for stopping or slowing down mechanisms for the society of useful activities. I propose that the College of the Two Houses of the BiH Parliament determine the method and way of stopping and determining the amount of nepotism, and then we can all define the clear principles of at least partial elimination together. Of course in writing all three of these. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u872	I'd like to thank my colleague Bradarić. The word came from a respected colleague, Mladen Ivanić, if someone is not a question, perhaps in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u873	Thank you, Chairman. One part of the question is about what Mr Simić was saying, and I am glad that he and I are thinking alike.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u874	You're a generation.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u875	Whether generic or political about it. My question is slightly different, and here are the ministers, as far as I understood him last time he spoke about Corridor 5c BiH and Croatia are starting to build a bridge in Svilaj, where there is no highway, and at the same time the highway from Maglajan to Sava is finished and there is no bridge. And now it's my question – do we really live in a country where bridges are made where there's no highway, and they don't make where there's a highway and what does the Ministry think about changing that?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u876	Every bridge makes itself a bridge. Thank you. Dear counterpart Hasan Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually inspired by the question of my colleague, the Kruna, and I would just extend this question. So, the Council of Ministers – What has the Council of Ministers done to collect obvious claims from the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia in the use of joint hydroenergy facilities and hydroenergy accumulations of BiH? What I'm saying is that this contract of Herzeg Bosnia is not the only document that regulates it. BiH, Serbia and Croatia had contracts to use and exploit them in the construction of joint energy facilities, but these contracts are not respected. And since the war on here neighbouring countries have been unauthorized to use the entire hydroenergy facility without damages to BiH. For this reason, I ask that the Council of Ministers finally resolve the issue because it is about claims made by some estimates even above 5 billion marks. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u878	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. There are no other applications for the word on this agenda point. Well, given the business provisions, conditions have been met to move to point three. Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Single Origin Number with Two Amendments at the 7th session of 27/07/11, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act in the proposed text at the 5th session in 14/09/11. At the 5th session of the House of Nations held on 14 September 2011 at the Joint Commission of both homes to reach agreement on the identical course of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Single Parent Number were appointed: the Master of Nermina Kapetanović, Mr. Josip Merdžo and Mr. Staša Košarac. The Joint Commission for the Consensus of Tex of that Law at the session held on 30.11.2011 reached an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act, which is being drawn up by the Report on which we are due today. At its 15th session, held on 8 December 2011, the House of Representatives adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act. I'm opening a debate. Have there been any reports of discussion? No, thank you. We're going to vote. Thank you. According to this item of the agenda, in the first round, of the 14 delegates present, there were 14 delegates. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the Joint Commission Report of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act has been adopted. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2010, BiH Presidency material
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u884	If I saw correctly, I don't know if I understood correctly. But most of the activity here, it writes the realization of the activity expanded from this to this period. Every recently, at least what I've seen. This basically means that nothing was done or done very little. There are those who were moved from 2008 to 2011 and we are talking about Europe and activities, like we are all focused on something. There are things that aren't political at all. I can't understand that, say, waste management is a political problem and that unless we're going to argue about whose jurisdiction it is, whether it's a state or an entity. It may also be a reason, but there really are things that are, which can be done, that do not require any great political consent, compromise, and that are useful to all who are prolonged. 13 Whether it is a prolonging result of the informality of the Council of Minsitors or something long, the question arises. Although, in the technical mandate, this Council of Ministers can also do a whole series of things that are particularly useful... which are politically sensitive, can do much more than it's done here. Thank you. As a delegate in this House, I'm really worried about what I'm saying, on the activities it mostly writes prolonged with, on. And I think it's absolutely, but it's absolutely not good for anyone, and especially not for the whole of BiH citizens and both of its entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u885	I thank Mr Ivanic. Word came through, dear colleague Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u886	I thank the chairman. After this discussion of my colleague Ivanić, I think there is a need to draw attention to both the Commission's opinion and the state of the report. Indeed, the third updated Partnership was created for BiH at the end of 2007. Given both the medium and long-term priorities, the Partnership should have been realistic already. The highest number of priorities has been expanded. We, as the Commission, have established the Report, therefore, under point 2 for the highest number of priorities, stated that the deadlines have been extended, where there are insufficient or insufficient reasons for prolonging, with the conclusion that the review shows otherwise by worrying about a small number of realised priorities from the Partnership. The next thing I can draw attention to from this Opinion is that for all of these reasons, we have unanimously concluded on the Commission that it is necessary to review the implementation of priorities for the next report, for the next half of the year, that is, for the six months of this year,... this year because what we have considered has been related to the first half of this year. So, this second semester should contain the reasons for prolonging, the degree of conduct of priorities. Because otherwise in the report in the descriptive there structure is done something but there's no score, whether it's a smaller part of whether it's half or completely implemented. And finally, we ask that in this report the Council of Ministers deliver and work on solving priorities that have been identified as open issues. So, with such a report by the Council of Ministers on why something has been prolonged, which are the reasons, to what extent it has been implemented and what is planned to do, I think there will be a quality debate that my colleague Ivanić was talking about in which I think this tone should go when the next report comes. Thank you. So I suggest, therefore, that we take into account this report, as it is, but that this Commission opinion with conclusions, we suggest that it adopt the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u887	I thank Mr. Genjac. 14 There are no other reported debaters. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point and we're moving on to a plea. Thank you. At this point in the agenda in the first round, of the 14 delegates present, 13 voted for, 1 was against, abstentioned no one. From Federation 8 to, 1 against, and from Republika Srpska 5 to. Given that there is both a general and an entity majority, I find that the half-year review of the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the document European Partnership with BiH for the period from 01.01/11 to 30.06.2011, was accepted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on the state of implementation of the Interim Agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the period from 1.1.2011 to 30.6.2011, and what is the material, please, ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't have them in this, I'm sorry. We have a business solution situation. Therefore, in the record that exists at the Secretariat, it has been found that these are the conclusions of the Commission which are not proposed to the House for adoption, because it says so. I'll čitaću, the Joint Committee, it's a Croatian version. The Joint Committee on European Integration at the 3rd session of 11.10.2011 discussed the mid-term review of the implementation of the activities of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership document, between 01.01 and 30.06/11, with information on its creation. These, following the debate, adopted the following conclusions. So the conclusions are from one to four. And it is said that the rapporteur at a session of the House of Representatives called Vesna Krstović Spremo and the rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, Halid Genjac. Mr. Genjac, we are therefore very much working to conclude this situation, so that a statement can be made about all of this, if that is your proposal as rapporteur. Here you go. Wait a minute, I have to grant you a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u889	In fact, there are few businesses, but the Rules of Procedure stipulates that commissions as competent deliver opinions and reports to the House. In this case, the Commission for European Integration as the committee responsible has considered the Report and delivered its opinion to the House of Opinion. I think this would be a good idea to put into adoption, because by adopting opinions, conclusions are being adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u890	So, the finding that you think would be good, I'll take it as a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u891	That's right. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u892	Okay. Now, I would like to do business in order to first adopt the conclusion that we have made this possible, given that it has not been in the regular procedure that has gone this way, so I call you if there is no need to discuss this, and I don't think that there is any way that we can approach the adoption of a conclusion that allows Mr. Genjac's proposal to enter into this agenda as a proposal for the adoption of these conclusions, please. Thank you. According to this proposal for a conclusion that practically addresses this issue, by harmonising with the current Rules of Procedure, I think it is in accordance with Rule 146. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So in the first round of 14, 14 delegates voted in favour. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There's both a general and an entity majority and I realize this conclusion has been adopted. Now, given that this has so far not been part of the material that was part of the proposal, I will read the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission for European Integration. 1. The review shows a worrying small number of realised priorities from the European Partnership in the reporting period. 2. For the highest number of priorities, it is stated that the deadlines have been extended, where there is insufficient or insufficient justification for the reasons for the prolonging. 3. The list of priorities previously identified as open issues has been completely left out. 4. We believe that it is necessary to review the implementation of priorities for the next reporting period, which is from July to December 2011, contains detailed information on the state of each of the priorities of the Action Plan on 31.12.2011, including the reasons for the delay, the level of implementation of priorities, in brackets (smaller part, half or completely) and third, activities in solving priorities that are identified as open issues. Now, without further ado, given that we have concluded the discussion, we move to a statement on the proposed conclusions. Thank you. So, according to this agenda item, in a statement on the proposed conclusions by the Joint Commission on European Integration, in the first round of 14 delegations, 14 delegates voted in favour. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. Well, I realize that there are both the general and entity majority, and the proposed conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration, as read, have been adopted. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Report on the state of implementation of the Interim Agreement/Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the period 01.01.2011 to 30.06.2011, material of the Council of BiH 16 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for the European Integration of BiH. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr. Halid Genjac, if he wants to? Before that, I'd only ask to solve one dilemma. Mr Bećirović, I have your application for participation in the discussion or, please, by
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u895	On this agenda point? After Mr. Genjac finish, of course, fine. Please, so I won't be in any doubt to report it, just let me know, when we say we've opened the debate. Just so we don't think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or any other matter. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u896	Only business, so our opinions have all the delegates, I will not stick to it, but also around this Opinion and the report on the implications of Croatia's accession, Croatia's entry into the EU, is the same procedural problem. So, the Commission has delivered its opinion, I would ask you to put your opinions on the same statement because I think it contains quality conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u897	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. We won't have to do the same because we now have a neat business procedure and I will now read these conclusions, given that there is always work from this point of view. Therefore, the Opinion on the State of Implementation of the Interim Agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for January to June 2001. The Joint Commission for European Integrations held at the 3rd session of 11.10.2011, discussed the State of Implementation of the Interim Agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the period 01.01 to 30.06/11 with the Information on its construction, and adopted the following conclusions, which it proposes to this House for adoption: 1. The report shows that the obligations under the Interim Agreement are mostly carried out neatly. 2. The state of implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement obligations, before its... effective, worrying, particularly because of the violation of two points, and a new order, (a) Member's provision, respectively, because of the Court of Justice's failure to implement the Strasbourg ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH. b) The provisions of Article 70 relating to the process of harmonising BiH's legislation with EU legislation, priority in the area of internal markets and other trade-related areas and c) the provisions of Article 71 relating to the State support system. 17 3. We consider it necessary for the Council of Ministers of BiH to take a decisive approach to the creation of a programme for BiH's integration into the EU, a document in which a thorough and systematic way would establish a programme for BiH's preparation in all areas for its EU accession. Mr. Genjac, that's it, isn't it? Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he wants to? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point and I'm giving my esteemed colleague, Hasan Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the technical disturbances.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u899	I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u900	But we're wine today. I'd actually like to look at this document from a single angle that I'd like to draw even the next item of the agenda that we have, but also this previous one. In fact, we know that the documents in BiH's approximation of the EU in addition to international agreements and the European Partnership are as recommendations that have the strength, I would say an analytical approach to the implementation of the provisions of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In addition, we forget that we have, in addition to this Ackon plan and the Action Plan on implementing the provisions of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We were obliged to do a priority program that unfortunately wasn't done. And we were obliged to start, or do an integration program. When we observe all these documents together, only then can we speak fully of our activities that we have done in the process of approaching the EU. For that reason, I would only look back at the area of economy and the internal market at the moment. So I'm not going to talk about those other chapters and I'm going to try to illustrate how disastrous the situation is in meeting these obligations by our authorities. And I'm going to try to figure out what that had to do with the economic reflections in BiH. In fact, we have largely taken an unbalanced approach in the implementation of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the European Partnership. And the author of this material boasts that he has met all the measures in terms of liberalisation of the domestic market. And the measures to ensure the regulation of the domestic market and raising the competitiveness of domestic production have not been implemented. What did we do with it? We brought in our war-torn economy, with other technologies, knowledge and so forth. in the position to wage a war on the market with highly competitive industries or economies, and of course, it is doomed. As a result, BiH has achieved a 65 billion exchange deficit in the last 10 years from a pre-war country in a foreign trade surplus. We have received a non-competitive economy and we have a serious problem integrating BiH's market into the EU market. I'll only take one segment as an example in that... We are in the field of standardisation and certification so lagging behind that it is not a problem, now we will fall out that Croatia is entering the EU, on the contrary, I find it very positive, it is not a problem that Croatia is entering the EU, but the problem is that we are not ready for a trade with the EU. We don't have mutually signed bilateral agreements on the recognition of certificates. What does that mean? I'll tell you. This means that when our goods are placed on the Croatian or Serbian market, the importer does not recognise BiH's certificate, but we must pay the certification house or the EU or the importing countries, and when we import the goods, we recognise their certificate. We have come in a position to slowly make BiH a warehouse of goods of neighbouring countries, a commodity of dubious quality. If that's the case, I'll confirm only one example. One of the products that has been completely wrongly declared from the neighbouring country, where the declaration does not match the content, is banned from transport in the neighbouring country, in BiH it is not. So, is it our aim to implement the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, etc. We make our country even more subjugated, developed economies or we raise our economy and make it as competitive as possible for European countries' economies. Based on how our authorities have been doing, I have the impression that it's either extreme incompetence or evil intentions. Because it's impossible, it's impossible to conduct this procedure so unsynchronized. We need to build an institutional framework as soon as possible, establish institutions and provide for our economy conditions that will be sufficient for it to compete on the European market tomorrow. The fact that we import from Croatia seems to me to be more than 2 billion worth of goods, from Serbia a billion and I don't know how much, that almost imports from those two are close to 4 billion and that exports from about half of them should also worry that we are making such slow progress in building a constitutional framework and building institutions, especially in the field of recognising the certification of products in BiH. It would be very interesting for someone to tell us how many of us today have quality control reference laboratories, and is that enough so that our economy can go uninterruptedly into the EU market and compete at least in what we are competitive with these economies. For this reason, I personally think that, with this information, it would be very appropriate to make one analysis of the application of the CEFTA Agreement, this Regional International Trade Agreement, the effects of the application and the difficulties in the application of this Agreement. Because this Agreement was also supposed to be a prerequisite for what is next, the integration of our market from regional to European markets. The illustrations for the sake of this, I'll tell you that just one analysis at the Employers' Association has found that despite the application of this CEFTA agreement, we have about 100 identified outside customs barriers in neighbouring countries to export our goods. I understand neighboring countries. They also protect their manufacturers and their jobs in this way. But I don't understand the responsible organs of this country. Why don't they do the same? We have not, except once, in any case and it is very discriminatory, applied the provisions of the CEFTA Agreement in conditions where we establish excessive imports, and we have instruments in this Agreement, nor have we applied measures of reciprocity towards neighbouring countries, as if it were not about our economy. 19 I'm afraid, I'm really afraid that if we continue this way, with such a debalanced approach to the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we will finally destroy our own economy and leave the country completely dependent on imports. It's impossible, of course, to get out of this on these criteria. The development criterion is based on imports and consumption is doomed. We need to quickly change the concept of development and start from production and exports as a fundamental element in the development of the country. And these are instruments in our hands now. That is why I propose, what the Commission has done, that at least six months of standing, it is reported in the application of these agreements and the Action Plan in the European Partnership, but also in the CEFTA agreement, that the competent authorities should be in charge and do far more responsible in the approach and implementation of this, that exactly the reports say who failed to fulfil the task, why and that the Parliamentary Assembly of the institutions and forms of responsibility for not implementing it. At the very least, it is international agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u901	I thank my esteemed colleague Bećirović. The honorable colleague Mehmed Bradarić came forward for the word further. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u902	I've been preparing a little story for reading 5 and reading 6 and 7 and 8, accepting the risk of being boring, meaning convincing what it says here or being even more boring if I convince it all, and I don't suggest any conclusion, or perhaps the most boring if I do all that and suggest something that, here's the year we've all been listening. And then I gave up all that with an athletic trip. But then you go to Brussels, we were yesterday and the day before last we came back, and then you find out a lot, you find out a lot, and the people say, "What man knows more and suffers more." I can tell you that, without any pathetics, since last night I've been suffering a lot more and I'm much more unhappy thanks to what we heard yesterday and the day before. We have concluded that BiH is one big laboratory, perhaps even the only one in Europe where you have good technologists, good labs. Doris Pac is the best lab there, she knows everything that's going on in BiH and more than we do who live here and we can't be mad at her because she gave us a lecture as a teacher there. But you have labs coming from Romania, which is a member of Parliament, who has no idea what is in BiH, he has already invented three entities, two constituent nations and you have to talk to him. And it is not a problem that 700 delegates, MPs there in the Parliament of Europe, are not aware of the people who are tasked with solving problems here, etc. And then you realize that he's one snob, and there's a lot of them, and he's burning me down, and then he comes to you to eat himself like that frog, the snake, which I don't know, the urogor and so on. It's a pain in the ass. Doris Pac says that, she advocates that there is no investment in BiH. And she talks there to her employers, don't go to BiH to invest because the zone is insecure. It's insecure. And we tried to convince her that it wasn't quite so, through some companies called "Heilberg" that are called "Prevent" and so on, but it's not worth it, it's just not worth much. 20 We heard one, we translated it ourselves, one morbidity that says, in BiH it will be difficult for you in the coming years, and believe that it is only for your own good. So it's a good thing it's gonna be hard and it's not gonna be an investment. It's a good thing you're not fighting corruption. They ask and exclude that question from all these important issues and so forth. And then you ask yourself what's mine is, so tomorrow when we get here, what's mine, to say what's mine, to do, I'm just going back to the beginning where I said not to say something that's already being heard, heard for a year and so on. or for years and so on. I'm ready, and they told us, and I'm saying, don't let us just disrespect them are important, I'm ready, so let me and my party, let me not even know who wants to hit my ears and so on, all three of these documents that they say are crucial, that I don't repeat them, sign me and accept me as I expect others to do. Believe me, it's just a way to start talking to us and get better and get out of this poverty. Poverty is the source of all the whites, the source of all the accidents, so we're making those accidents. And I say, I'm going back to it, I'm ready to do anything. And I'm sure that anything we don't do, these citizens in this country won't get any worse, even though we pretend to make some revolutionary decisions and so on, that people don't even know what they're called. And yet another observation through this yesterday and the day before yesterday, otherwise past this activity, everywhere in Europe, so here we had an example of Croatia where the Croatian Government is pushing the Directorate, its direkcija for European Integration to prepare as many materials as possible. In this case, it's the other way around, with us, the Directorate is looking for it, and I think it's the only one, asking the government to prepare as many materials as possible. She doesn't, unfortunately. And here I am using the opportunity to both Mrs. Savić and Mrs. Ravnjak, as the leaders of the Directorate and to commend. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u903	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. We were together and I see what's worth this morning - go everywhere to your house. Thank you. I also welcome Mr. Čović's arrival, the first deputy chairman to join this session. There are no other applications for participation in this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u904	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u905	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u906	Director Nevenka Savić called.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u907	21 Forgive me, Mrs. Savić, I have not seen you raise your hand, but of course you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear delegates of the House of Peoples, I thank first of all for calling for your session today, and here I feel that we should refer to a few things from the presentation of the esteemed delegate Bećirović, and of course I thank Mr Bradarić for these nice words at the expense of the Directorate and I am glad to recognize it, however, Mr Bećirović referred to more things in his presentation. Some of these things are not directly within the jurisdiction of the Directorate, but here is the development of an integration programme which is presented in the table itself as one of the activities that has not been carried out. I think I have a duty to say that in the middle of last year, the Council of Ministers tasked the European Integration Directorate to start consultations on the development of an integration programme. The integration programme is therefore one strategic document containing all AKI titles divided according to the competent institutions for the harmonisation of legislation, therefore, those Directives with deadlines. This document was named by all the candidate countries, but we believe it is very important to start in BiH as early as possible with this strategic document because monitoring the harmonisation of legislation, when such a document is made, will be much simpler. The issue of jurisdiction between institutions, both horizontally and vertically at the level of government, is also an opportunity to resolve in such a document. And as long as it doesn't start, we won't even know exactly where the problems are, so it's gonna be hard to get past them at a later stage. You were also talking about the competitiveness of domestic products. I very much agree with you, but I think it may be necessary to say that for the first time this year in maintaining a subcommittee on the internal market and competition, representatives of the European Commission have said that the diversification of our products, as well as the increase in the level of competitiveness, means products being exported. I agree with your assessment of our inability to establish the necessary bodies for, means certification and everything else that is necessary for our products to be found on the EU market, but believe it in some way becomes a vicious circle. So the integration program needs to be done. It is preceded by one decision on the coordination mechanism. Also, it is necessary to adopt AKI and work on institution building. And all of that at some point you find yourself in a situation where you don't know what's first, what's second, and we seem to be standing. When it comes to institution building, I would just, here's a detail. Representatives of the European Commission tell us, when the three Baltic countries joined the EU, they agreed on where, in which country the laboratory would be, in order not to, means those capacities that require really significant financial resources, will, for example, be foreseen in all three countries, because there is no need. Even sometimes they use German laboratories. Then you come to BiH where two or possibly three laboratories are wanted, which is very difficult for them to understand, and as a result, they tell us until we have a state strategy for quality infrastructure where it means by agreement and these things will be regulated, we will not have 22 IPA funds provided for in the coming years for, meaning the whole area of quality infrastructure, which means it further makes it difficult for us to buy our products, collects our products or definitely makes it almost impossible for them to access the European market. For these issues, I think it would also be very good to request information from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, as well as on the CEFTA issue, because that's their jurisdiction, so here's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u909	I thank the distinguished Mrs. Savić. And I only note, because of all the delegates present here who will decide that the conclusion proposed by the Joint Commission for European Integration on the approach to the development of integration programmes is related to the obligation of the Council of Ministers. So in this case, there will certainly be no doubt about what you were talking about at the beginning of your address. For a replica, i.e. a pardon, the correction of the wrong quote came from a respected colleague, Hasan Bećirović. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u910	Of course, I appreciate the time of everyone here, and I'd just say to Mrs. Director that I didn't say a word to the direkcija. And I'm only concerned right now after you stepped in. Because I don't know what we're gonna have to regulate in quality while we do it. What I was saying was more addressed to the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The directorate didn't really mention it. Unfortunately, I must say that I am very frustrated with the role of the Directorate as some body that becomes the statistical base responsible for the implementation of these agreements, not the creator or co-creator, specifically, of this process. Or let's say, the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry, in order to avoid a major problem, is a big area where tomorrow we need to achieve as much competitiveness as possible, small and medium-sized enterprises, trying to move it by law to the Ervopian Integration Directorate, which has little to do with it and so on. I really didn't, when I was talking, I didn't mean the Directorate, but I meant everyone responsible. If you were listening to me, I was talking about responsible organs and bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u911	I thank Mr Bećirović. I'm concluding a discussion on this agenda point. We're moving on to a plea. First we vote on the report itself. Thank you. According to this item of the agenda in the first round of 15 delegates, 13 delegates voted for, 1 delegate was against, and 1 delegate abstained. From Federation 8 to, 1 against, 1 abstention, from RS 5 to. I find that there is a general and entity majority, so the State of Implementation Report 23 of the Interim Agreement/Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the period from 01.01.2011 to 30.06.2011 was adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission for European Integration. Thank you. According to these conclusions in the first round of 15, there were 14 delegates, 1 abstention. From Federation 9 for, from Serbia 5 for, from Federation 1 abstention. With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. But I have to ask, unless someone from the Bosniak People's Club has an objection that Mr. Tihić's vote has been verified by his absence without withdrawing the card. _________(?) There is. You have an objection. I'm asking the technical service to eliminate the card from the system. It would be bad, so the president of one of the biggest parties would be verified as someone who didn't support these conclusions. Mr. Genjac, you can see we're thinking about the well-being of all the peoples. Thank you. Now I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Following the re-vote, 14 delegates were in favour following the proposed conclusions of the present 14 delegates. From Federation 9 for, from Serbia 5 for. Well, since there is both the general and the entity majority, I find that the proposals for the Joint Commission's conclusions on European integration at point 7. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have carefully read the Council of Ministers' Information. I appreciate everything the distinguished colleagues from the European Integration Directorate, led by Ms. Nevenka Savić, have done. I normally appreciate the work of the Directorate, but what concerns me is the very ignoring relationship between the entire Council of Ministers and the Directorate of European Integration. What concerns me is the failure of the BiH Council of Ministers to agree with the AKI committees, which is their obligation, the obligation of BiH, which is why it stems from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and our relationship with the EU. And here's this opportunity I'm using to say, so to express my dissatisfaction with calling, so the existing call to the Council of Ministers, to invite them to try to respect the very good will, the very professional attitude in the Directorate of European Integration and their willingness to really correct the draft laws that come into parliamentary procedure in accordance with the AKI. That's never happened before. Very often they ignore their proposals and I think it is extremely politically incorrect and it is not good for speeding BiH's path towards the EU. As far as this report is concerned, I think that, and on the trail of my parliamentary questions that I have been asking the past few sessions and today my discussion will be directed towards some reminder of us all sitting here. And it is a very sad fact that the Council of Ministers has almost no one, not counting the Directorate of European Integration. And this shows how ignoring their relationship to the very problematic moment in which BiH is. 25 Therefore, for those who are not here from the Council of Ministers, if necessary, I will present this text of my discussion in writing form. The question is whether they even read the report even though they voted for it. Croatia represents BiH's most significant foreign trade partner with a total export share of almost 15%, I am talking about 2010, and 18.80% in total BiH exports. The agricultural sector is particularly important in BiH's foreign trade with Croatia and participates 16% in BiH's total exports to the country. While Croatia's agricultural sector imports account for 29% of total imports from Croatia. With Croatia's entry into the EU, we can expect a significant reduction in BiH's exports, especially certain groups of products from the agri-industry sector in Croatia. BiH has very little, almost no time to come to a solution since full membership of the Republic of Croatia to the EU will begin on 1 July 2013, with the application of regulations and procedures starting in January 2013. BiH and the Republic of Croatia have unresolved property legal relations where no agreement between the two states has yet been signed. Croatia neither respects Annex G of the International Agreement on Succession, which is why the return of property, especially legal entities, continues before courts. The result is that the processes are conducted inadmissibly slowly. The Bosnian-Herzegovina side of the Republic of Croatia is searching for 1,750,000 meters of space in different forms. There are also a number of open issues in cases of cross-border co-operation. Although BiH with Croatia has even 1.001km of interstate border, the border agreement has not been signed. Unsolved free access to the territorial waters of Neum remains an open issue of transit through the Port of Ploče. The importance of the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy and Luke Ploca, free access to international waters and the connection of Neum with other tourist destinations in the country and other parts of BiH, are as important as the connection of the Dubrovnik area with the rest of Croatia. As is known, according to current solutions, there will unfortunately be only two border crossings between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, i.e. at the EU's external borders over which products of plant and animal origin will be able to be exported. I mean Old Gradiška and Metkovice. This will increase transport costs and reduce the competitiveness of our products. During talks on the identification of the number of border crossings, complete non-disciplineality has been shown, both the Croatian sides and the European Commission. The Bosnian-Herzegovina party requested that 7 border crossings be ensured for the export of agricultural products, but neither Croatia nor the European Commission agreed to such solutions. It was estimated to be very expensive projects that need significant funding, and BiH authorities have not yet done anything to enable 2 border crossings that must be operational for at least 6 months before the Republic of Croatia's entry into the EU, i.e. by the beginning of 2013. Nothing better in the field of electricity. There is an unresolved problem in the distribution of electricity at hydroelectric power plants in Trebišnica, and there is no solution to the issue of Lake Buška. Nevertheless, the most devastating situation could be for BiH the economy and export-related companies if they do not create and implement adequate measures in the area of trade relations between BiH and Croatia and the EU, respectively. BiH, as we all know, will not be able to export everything it has exported so far, i.e. the rest would be possible to place on the Croatian market only raw skin and fish, and processed fish. If BiH does not establish adequate controls that will fully meet EU standards, and I also spoke of 26 at the last meeting of the People's House on the need for certification of products from BiH, it will no longer be possible to export products such as milk, eggs, honey and meat where the value of exports amounted to over 40m euros in 2010, which is not negligible for Bosnian Herzegovina's exports. The production of milk and milk products is one of the few food activities that performs the external trade surplus. With Croatia's entry into the EU, our exports will be completely blocked until some of the laboratories in BiH are accredited for these jobs. We have experts and we have no answer to the question why not do it in BiH. So, apart from the need to adopt and harmonise individual legal solutions, BiH must have laboratories that will guarantee that export goods comply with EU standards. Without it, none of our products from 1.1.2013 will be able to cross the border. We are all aware of the fact that in order to mitigate the negative effects of Croatia's entry into the EU, it is necessary for BiH to adopt the Law on the State Aid System in BiH as a basic precondition for the implementation of any systemic support measures and the creation of dedicated funds and incentives for the economy. It is not easy, but it is necessary to provide financial resources and to form funds to support competent institutions and businesses in the process of harmonising and working and operating with EU requirements and standards. It is necessary to educate businessmen on all conditions for the placement of products on the EU market and to direct them towards full harmonisation of only export-oriented production. At this point, that's all. It is necessary to ask the Republic of Croatia and the EU institution for BiH to allow a transitional period of application of EU rules on the placement of our products on the Croatian market until the time of its full membership in the EU, i.e. from 01.01 to 30.06.2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u915	I thank my esteemed colleague Nermini Kapetanović. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u916	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Nermina took a good deal from me, and she also helped me with certain information that was the basis for this discussion. Mr Bradarić said that in the European Community they don't understand us, they don't even know about us, so my suggestion is also about this point, that in the future we don't expect solutions to come from the European Community, to come from there to help us, but to look for those solutions ourselves. I am aware of the degree of ignorance and the desire not to know each other and not to know, both economic and social relations in BiH. So, first of all, we have to deal with these questions. Mrs. Pack calls for investors not to come to us, then it's only clear to us the other day when I read the information that for the year 2010 investments, in dollars, were in Albania $1.160 and some million, in Montenegro $427 million, in BiH, in shock, $10 million. If those who come here and present themselves as friends suggest don't go invest there, then I understand why, with our problems, our indiscretions in many issues, are happening and so is that. 10 27m dollars was a direct investment in BiH, while in one Albania that we felt sorry for, told jokes about it, had been investment, so I said just before, 1.164 and some million dollars. Therefore, listening to the discussions of the previous and the present, it turns out that Croatia's entry into the EU is a problem for us. First of all, I am very glad that our neighbor came in and tracked down to become a full member of the European Community, because that is one incentive for us to engage much more in order to achieve those goals. We do not need to complain at this point but we need to look for certain solutions as soon as possible, and yet by 2013, there is time if it is properly used and if there is a consensus that certain issues are resolved and resolved. I will now only talk here about two aspects, specifically related to the report, and they also refer to Mrs Nermina in her discussion and mentioned it. It is a matter of property legal relations between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. With this report that exists here, I'm afraid we've never even had a chance to get a full report, which is where it is. What is here from Croatia, which is located in BiH, Croatia, since laws and legal provisions in the initial and passive capital balance. The property located on Croatia's territory, under the provisions of both entity laws, falls within the scope of both entities. True, this is where the government got involved, and in the Federation of BiH it was transferred to the Asset Management Agency that was not privatised. However, we have never received a report seriously, comprehensively where what is happening and I feel like we've lost a lot of time. At that time, which went uncontrollably, the meshetars and the media, whether written or electronic, witnessed that many privatised companies used this vacuum, this reluctantly, to say the least, had sold a large number of properties owned by either the RS or the Federation of BiH, if we were to take into account these provisions of the Capital Initial Balance Act. There's also never been a serious report of what's really going on. Because beneath this surface you have very serious and subtle questions. So there's one question, Janak, property on Jank. It's a huge one today, a corporation that might be worth more than all of what we're discussing today. I don't know. There's an old-time businessman here, and they know how Janak came to be. Janak is a joint venture founded by Rafineri Brod, a refinery in Sisak and the Panchev Refinery. Even the initial capital was a million-and-a-half dollars and Janak, as a secure future profitable firm, took loans, but this company was set up, and we know that these... businesses, grew into one company that even charged its founders with the transfer of... oil to destinations that I mentioned. Does anyone today ask a question of property on Yanak? Even there are certain transfers of property. Even representatives of Croatian authorities knew very well what the value and knowledge was and through the privatisation process gave the most of the actions to their categories of responsible fighters, I don't know, and the privileged categories, not what they were privileged by the status they had. Today, when you touch that question and open it, you'll have a problem. I saw in a contract concluded by the RS government that she had negotiated the right of the first investor in the ship if the matter was resolved. Here's the question I'm raising today. Has anyone raised the question of Janak, his status and his relationship? So I'm in this direction, I'm afraid there's a little legally wrong approach here to the conclusion of this additional contract. You have a conflict agreement. The agreement has resolved some 28 issues that prevent anyone from dealing with these problems. Waiting for that contract, and what's left, they're going to sell a variety of mechanics who've privatized the company. You still have the European Convention on Human Rights that guarantees the right to property. I don't need an agreement special to make us now, he's good, he better regulate to speed up. But at this point, he doesn't need to protect this property. In this direction, I would therefore suggest one conclusion - to oblige the Council of Ministers to make up, as soon as possible, a serious comprehensive analysis of the situation of BiH's assets and its two entities in accordance with its laws, which are located in Croatia's territory. I am afraid, again, from some generally accepted principles that rule in countries where certain rights are established, that there will be problems and that sales contracts will be annulled. Why? Do you have one provision of the principle of truthfulness of land books? The companies that were registered are still listed. No Niko has taken appropriate measures to prevent and correct that entry. People used evidence that the owners, unauthorized and illegally sold, the prosecution didn't deal with this report and the conclusion, we even made wrong views. Prosecutor's institutions are asking a question like they didn't sell it well. No, they couldn't sell it absolutely, because you can't sell other people's property, you just sold it five times as expensive. It would therefore be a good conclusion, therefore, and I suggest that it be added to the conclusions, with what could, technically, be located somewhere for a group dealing with this issue. The second question I want to ask is the question of boundaries. Here you have seen the area of border issues where in a detailed way it deals with the issue, to say the problems of the aspect of state-border planning, but in the conclusions there is a sentence that focuses on the Una River. She mentions Kostanica, you know that this problem lasts long, that it hasn't been solved yet, but only these problems are mentioned regarding the sea, the exit to Neum. So you should add a sentence here, too, I'll find point 3.4. -...to question the territory of the Neumese Gulf and the flow of the Una River. In this way, we would create the possibility that this issue that is indeed problematicly solved and covered by this report, too, so that we don't have a problem later, that the issue of the border in the river Una is undeniable, defined. It is mentioned in the report, but has not received its confirmation in the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u917	Thank you, fellow Simić. The speaker, counterpart Tadić, picked up the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I came forward because it wasn't in a wider way, although I could comment on this serious matter from a place like this without taking advantage of this pay phone. Mr Simić mentioned some open issues between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. In the report we received on the Commission, that number of open issues, I would say, is even wider. And I think that, however we discuss today, 29 will not be limited to the number of issues that are open between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, which are due to many things. Here's no one has touched the question of about a hundred or a hundred thousand citizens of the RS or theirs, so family members, who have been following the war since '91. '95. The years have escaped from this territory, so today they represent refugees from the EU, and what we talked about at this meeting held in Brussels. So we can't wear out with a number of questions. I think the point of this report is that it is before us, as well as the way the Joint Commission on European Integration intervened in something else, which is in the assessment of the state of future relations at one important point of the basis that BiH can now serve. In the future, the Republic of Croatia is not an incoherent bilateral party to address most of these issues, but also the EU, or the European Commission, or EU agencies, appear on this side. What we should and what I understood as the essence of what is being said when the Action Plan is mentioned in the Commission's proposal, it is to assess and find out what is all that goes into BiH's contribution to resolving bilateral issues with the Republic of Croatia, any questions, and in which European law, European standards go hand in hand with BiH. That is why I took the example of this refugee, because I am sure that refugee status will have to be better in the Republic of Croatia as an EU member than it was in the Republic of Croatia that was not an EU member. Here we need expertise, here we need knowledge. And I think that people paid for this job should explore this area, come up with facts that bring BiH's advantage as a negotiating party in any open issue with the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU, not to mention, of course, with all the other countries that are in its membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u919	Thank you, President-in-Office, Mr. Tadić. Correction of the wrong allegation, colleague Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u920	I just want two previous colleagues, Mrs. Kapetanović and Mr. Simić, to say that they have no reason to be surprised. This is the result of the work of their colleagues or associates sitting in the Council of Ministers from your parties. With all due respect, if the report passed, the ministers voted for it, which means if the border is not mentioned, the Serbian people's ministers did not consider it important in Costa Rica. And then it should be very nice to know. So it's impossible now on the one hand to exercise power and, on the other hand, to transfer that responsibility to, I don't know, someone imaginary. If something's wrong and it's so valuable, let's get out of power and then show that we generally disagree, more like a methodological commitment to remember that we're not all opposition here, so now we can all criticise the government. The government has its own parties that support, and the two that used to be said so. I'm sorry, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u921	Thank you, Mr. Ivanic. 30 Now we'll hear about it, Mrs. Kapetanović. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Politically correct when the position criticises the position. You know, I think it's much less painful and less incorrect for me to react to my colleagues who are in the Council of Ministers, who come from the order of my political options if they haven't responded to this report or are partly guilty of inaction, and a lot of it is ineffective, I'd better tell them than to bother the opposition. And I'm famous for always saying what I think. In fact, my correction of the wrong allegation is affirmative, Mr. Chairman, not critical absolutely towards you, but I just wanted to give a subport to a very important fact that you mentioned. We have a major problem with citizens who have lost the order of the Serb and Bosniak people, so because of the war events in the Republic of Croatia, lost their right to property, to jobs, they have turned to the Joint Commission on Human Rights of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes in which I am the first chairman, as you know. We have received their demands, which we hope will come up with a positive response, both with the Council of Ministers and with colleagues in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but we reminded them that by the Treaty of Sucession between the countries of the former Yugoslavia, the countries of the signatories in Annex G, have committed to respect, in principle, the provisions of the internal law that regulate and the matter that has led this group, one large population of citizens to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I also note that the Council of Europe Resolution, I can't remember exactly which number, I think 1309 but I'm not quite sure which truth has more character of the recommendation, has no legal power in terms of the bond, I think it goes in favour of them, but there's a fact that these people have been trying to understand both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for 7 or 8 years now. So far, that's not what's happened. I think the Joint Committee on Human Rights has a good will to try to meet them, including you as chairman, so also the leadership of our respected House and all our colleagues, please try to speed up the entry into parliamentary procedure and these points of the agenda and debate on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u923	Thank you, dear colleague Kapetanović. For the sake of correcting the wrong allegations, a distinguished colleague, Krstan Simić, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Ivanić, but the opposition is the opposition and will always look for a problem where he is not there. Today we are discussing the report, not which occurred four months or one year ago, we are discussing a report of the situation, society in relation to the new situation which occurred much earlier and some key contracts, said that Mr Ivanić was the foreign minister, precisely this agreement spoken of by Mrs Nermina. Also 4 31 years of office has been a key issue of these regulation relations. He was also the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. And all these questions, of course, were meant and reflected in the overall state that we have. So I would like this issue to be politicized. This issue is very serious for the day after tomorrow, when Croatia enters the EU, to welcome it ready and this issue is not a political party. The politicization of refugee issues. We all know the status of refugees from Croatia, unfortunately, but that is where we must start from two questions. The issues of return of property, which is regulated, I am now indicating that since the signing of Annex G in 2001 to this day, none of the political options have brought an end to gaining acceleration. The issue of household rights is, unfortunately, beyond the domain of what we're talking about. True, it is a major political problem, a major political problem, and this problem should be addressed through certain political relations with Croatia. I must remind you that the Strasbourg Court has also made certain decisions that it has given to the tenants, when it comes to Croatia, special status. But this does not mean that BiH for its new citizens who have come, running away from the wind of war as many have fled from here, under the obligation to try and resolve the issue to the satisfaction of those citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u925	Thank you, colleague Simić. A colleague, Ivanic, reported to correct the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u926	I greatly appreciate Mr Simić, especially when he is trying to cover his own people that he himself has indirectly criticised. The agreement you mentioned was not in the foreign ministry's jurisdiction at all. And as I don't know any who were signed at a time when I was Prime Minister, I think that story was baseless to you. My warning wasn't about the content of the border, there's you right. And I remind you that at that time as President of the Government of the Children's Car I carried out that at the border, almost the military conflict was with Croatia, I was just saying one thing here, that your ministers voted for this report and that their responsibility was if something was not mentioned that was not mentioned, and nothing more. So I wasn't talking about the content of the text, and I agree with you, but I was talking about responsibility. I wish you could talk to them a little more carefully about reading and doing your job. That's all it was, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u927	Col. Ivanić, effect made. A dear colleague, Merdžo, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u928	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Listen to these discussions, it is the impression that the open material for perhaps 5-6 specific agenda points should be considered by this House. So, the topic of the agenda is the Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and obviously our 32 traditional dealing with the consequences. So, the Council of Ministers made a material that, if so, we deal with the consequences of what it means for this country. But I am glad that within the debate we heard about it, I don't know either, here are the representatives of the Serb people who are the unresolved things between Croatia and BiH, i.e. here are the Srbin in BiH. Mr. Bećirović, let me say, handsomely, has extended it to Serbia as well, so this part of the power part that is not defined. And then we also heard devastating data about investment in this country, so from Albania that precedes, how many billion and something to BiH with some, to say a miserable ten million. And then this point of the agenda raises the question of what might be the root cause of all these consequences. Is that not enough practice, preciseing economic financial aspects, because we don't have these certification laboratories, or maybe it's caused by some kind of basic political structure. Is the cause of the fact that here is the will of certain political entities in the formation of government, the presentation does not want to be respected in such a state. Is this a message and the EU, so we hear what Doris Pack is saying, how minority people are urged to avoid BiH. And I think that's one fundamental question that, next to that, if it's already open and it's gone this far, should it be mentioned, is the economy the consequence of political structure and action or vice versa? I think we need to have the first politically stable environment, a country governed by the interests of all those who live in it, and then it will create internal frameworks for quality economic development where then we will really want to defend this space in both economic and financial and any other sense, and then we will be interesting to others to say, so look, they know what they want with that state, there it is worth investing in. As long as this is not the case, we will have this disastrous situation and these points of the agenda just as a reason to open up one palette of issues that really, indeed, should be thoroughly solved by a dominant political aspect and form the action of this country from the lowest to the highest level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u929	Thank you, dear colleague Merdžo. A five-minute break was requested by the head of the Serbian delegates' club. I'm taking a break. [[PAUZA]] Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have been informed that the break has been requested because of the formulation of the conclusions proposed by Mr Simić, so Mr Košarac will not take a special word, and I realize that the discussion is concluded on this agenda point. I ask that the technical service determines which delegates participate in the work and whether we meet the quorum conditions, I see that we meet and that the cards of delegates that are not there are excluded. Okay. We've got a quorum. Thank you. Now, please, it means technical service, in this way, to solve your next task. We'll vote on the information first. We will then vote on the Commission's proposals for conclusions. Finally, we will vote on the proposals of counterpart Krstan Simić. Let's get started. 33 We Can Vote. So we're voting on the first information. Mr. Bećirović, is abstention a will, then? All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u931	My pure will.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u932	Okay. Thank you. A vote was concluded following an information assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. In the first round of 13 delegates, for 12 delegates, there was 1 delegate. From the Federation of Eight delegates, one delegate was restrained. The Serbian 4 delegates were in favour. With the information given by the vote given both the general and the entity majority, I agree with the Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU has been taken into account. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission for European Integrations with an amendment to this point. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present who have declared the proposals for the conclusion of the Joint Commission on European Integration, 13 delegates were in favour, and 1 delegate was abstentioned. From the Federation of 9 delegates, 1 abstained, the Serbian 4 delegates were in favour. Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find the proposal to conclude the Joint Commission on European Integration on the subject of the information adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the esteemed colleague Krstan Simić, who, since the text suggested verbally, is now being proposed orally, in the course of the debate, I am now reading. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, – The Council of the Minsitatres of BiH is obliged to establish, as soon as possible, the scope of the passive balance sheet entity located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in co-operation with entity governments. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, – The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is tasked with stepping up bilateral negotiations with Croatia in order to agree on the state border treaty between BiH and Croatia, as well as to reach agreement on issues of the Neumsko Gulf aquaculture, as well as in the river Una. Mr. Simić, is that it? Thank you. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. In the vote on Mr Simić's proposals, of the 14 delegates present, there were 10 delegates, against no one, abstentioned four delegates. The Federation 6 delegates were in favour, four delegates were detained, and the Serbian 4 delegates were in favour. Given that there is a general and 34 entity majority, I find that the proposed conclusions of the distinguished colleague Krstan Simić have been adopted, so we have exhausted the work on this agenda point and we move to point 9. Point 9 is Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2010 I am in this situation now, sorry just to check the papers, so I am now in a position to inform you of the proposal for a conclusion on behalf of the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, given that from point 9 to point 17 of today's session on the agenda of the report on the work of the Constitutional Commission, the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, the report on the work of the Commission on Finance and the Budget of the House of Nations, that is, the report on the work of the Joint Commission on the Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly, the report on the work of the Joint Commission on Security Agency, the report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, migration, refugees, asylum and ethics, the report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly, the report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration, the report on the work of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs and everything for 2010. The proposal is for the College of the People's House to conduct a united discussion and a statement on these points of the agenda, so from point 9 to point 17. So before we move on to a statement on this, as suggested, I urge you to make any comments regarding this proposal to the College of the House of Peoples. There isn't. Thank you. Now I invite you to move on to a statement on this conclusion. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 14 delegates. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4, with the existence of a general and entity majority, so I find that we have adopted the conclusion that a united debate is being held on the agenda from point 9 to point 17, including point 17. I now call upon all the rapporteurs present here and related to these reports to plead whether they want to speak in the introduction of this agenda point? There are no reports. Thank you. I'm opening a debate united on these reports. There are no reports. Thank you. 35 We move to a statement on reports which are on the agenda from point 9 to point 17. including point 17. Thank you. I find that in the first round of 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 10, RS 4, which is the general entity majority, so I find that the work reports from point 9 to point 17. including item 17 of the proposed agenda have been adopted. Now we're going to work on item 18 of the agenda, and that's Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency, a proposal to the Joint College of both homes
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u935	Good afternoon, of course to all of you. The club of delegates of the Serb people due to continuity and of course its activities led in the previous period, we propose Mr. Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u936	I'd like to thank my colleague, Košarac. A esteemed colleague Halid Genjac, head of the Bosniak People's Club, came forward. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u937	The Bosniak club proposes Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u938	I'd like to thank my fellow Genjac. A dear colleague, Josip Merdžo, appeared on behalf of the Croatian People's Delegates Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u939	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian People's Club, I propose to Mrs. Borjana Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u940	I thank Mr. Merdžo. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no applications for participation in the discussion, so let's move on to a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Košarac goes to some flyer to catch, as far as I can tell. Thank you. So, according to the proposal for this conclusion of the 15 delegates present, there were 15 delegates. From Federation 10, from Serbia 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find - the conclusion was adopted, and for members of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the conduct of procedures for the selection of 4 members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, are named: Mr. Krstan Simić, Mr. Mehmed Bradarić and Mrs. Borjana Krišto. We're going to work on the 19th item of the agenda, Ad. 19. Proposal for a conclusion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the mandate of BHRT Management Board members from the Serbian and Croatian people Acting in line with the conclusions of the 4th session of the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission, Customs, Transport and Communications at its 6th session held on 09.11.2011 discussed the reply of the Regulatory Agency for Communications from 27/09/11 and on the conclusion of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in connection with the appointment of BHRT members from the Serbian and Croatian people. The Commission adopted the conclusions sent to the Joint College of both homes. At the 6th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held on 07.12.2011 in 37, he took note of the Commission's conclusion and made a commitment to the Commission, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the above conclusions were addressed to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for further action. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications at the House of Peoples discussed and decided at its 8th session held on 14.12.2011 to refer to the House for adoption of the following conclusions, and I read: 1. The home of the people of the PSBiH asks the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Communications ("The Official Messenger of BiH", 31/3, 75/6 and 32/10), and the Law on Public Radio Television Service of BiH ("The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 92/5 and 32/10), which will allow the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the re-implementation of the procedure for the appointment of members of the BHRT Management Board from the Croatian and Serbian people. 2. Members of the Board of Directors of BHRT who have expired their mandate, and since no new members have been appointed within the deadline set by the earlier conclusion of both homes until 31.12.2011, the term of office shall be extended to an additional 90 days, closed alleged signs. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports. Thank you. We move to a vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present, there were 15 delegates in the first round. From Federation 10, from Serbia 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I figure, the conclusions have been adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues or colleagues and colleagues, on the agenda of today's session, we still have the agreement to ratify agreements, protocols, contracts, memos, amendments and agreements. I propose that we bring together the debate and the declaration of consent for the ratification of the agreement, the protocol, the contract, the memorandum, the amendment to the agreement from 20 to 32, including point 32. I'm opening a debate on the proposed conclusion. There are no reports, thank you. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. According to this proposal in the first round, of the 15 delegates present, 15 delegates were in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbian 5, there are both general and entity majority. I find that the proposal has been adopted. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. The Commission proposes to the House to make a decision on granting approval for ratification. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović, if he wishes? Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports, thank you. 38 Now we move on to a plea. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the Agreement, Protocol, Contract, Memorandum, Amendment to the Agreement from 20 to 32, including point 32. Thank you. In the first round of voting, of the 15 delegates present, there were 15 delegates. From Federation 10, from Serbia's 5, with both the general and entity majority. Well, I understand that we have given consent to ratification of agreements, protocols, contracts, memorandums and amendments to the agreements from point 20 to 32, including point 32. Now, I ask you to pay attention to one piece of information, and before that information, let me direct you on behalf of the College of the House of Peoples one college apology, because the beginning of this session of the People's House was delayed first from 11:00 p.m. to 12:00 p.m., and then with some delay it started after 12:00 p.m. I think it's a valid reason. Visiting the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and later both the BiH presidency and the Council of Ministers is a respected colleague of Slavica Đukić Dejanović, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Obligations related to her visit, the working character certainly prevented us from keeping order from the first call. The second thing that I want to inform you about and what you will certainly be informed of and in an appropriate way by official means, in writing, is that the next session of the House of Nations will be held on December 28th, starting at 11:00, and will mainly deal with audit reports, so on behalf of the public, as much as I can afford, I draw attention to that matter, so that we can do our job in a quality way, and perhaps give certain indications that we should continue to apply to the audit reports in general. Thank you again. I apologize again, Mr. Košarac, here you go. This now comes as running questions and we don't have that point. So you have to sign up, but before you I will congratulate the Croatian people on celebrating the Catholic Christmas and New Year's Eve. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u942	You are reagovati, but I am taking the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, all colleagues and colleagues of Croatian nationality, employed in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on the Christmas holiday, as well as all citizens of Croatian nationality in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u943	Thanks, Košarac. The word is from Mr. Genjac. Let me guess what the occasion is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u944	Of course, this, as our tradition usually shows, and on behalf of the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Bosniak People, I want to join these congratulations and all Catholics, therefore, congratulating the performing Christmas holidays and, of course, a lot of happiness, health and, most importantly, everything is to be the best in the family. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-21-0.u945	Thank you, and fellow Genjac. And of course, the College of the House of Peoples expressed its congratulations during the celebration of the Catholic Christmas in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, but we also join our committee clubs. Cheers. Session completed at 14:36 p.m.
