ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to inform you that there are 14 delegates present at the session and, of course, Mr Tihić is in the Parliamentary Assembly building, he will join, there are four from the Order of the Bosniak People's Club, five from the ranks of the Croatian people, here is Mr Tihić, I apologize, I know that I am present, correct the minutes, 15 delegates and that all the clubs of the people are fully present. For the 3rd session, the next agenda has been proposed, so you all have it in the agenda review, I don't think there's any need to...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u61	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u62	For the record, everything?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u63	You have to read it completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Peoples delegations, I have a proposal to complete the agenda on this which, in the capacity of the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and because of the circumstances that arise after the meeting of the Representative's House, is held, and appreciates the short period of legislative activity ahead of the summer break, on the basis of the 8th and 9. Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I propose that the following conclusion be adopted: 'The chairman of the Constitutional Commissions of the House of Peoples propose to the House of Peoples that with the aim of effective implementation of the legislative procedure in July 2011 a conclusion which... the law would be considered at House 15. Seven. 2011 from the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission, which was adopted in the second article at the House of Representatives in 14.7.2011, namely: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Information of BiH; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons established by the Institutions of BiH; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information of BiH; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of BiH; Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH – shortened the amendment phase, so that instead of 15 days, as provided for under Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the House, the amendment phase, lasts seven days from the day of the adoption of the bill in the first paragraph." 5 The reasons are already contained in the proposal itself. We are very late, we need to really try to get some legal solutions off the agenda before the summer break and therefore I suggest that this agenda be placed, I think the third one of these agendas is behind the conclusion proposed by the House of People's Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u67	Havala's colleagues Simić. Is anyone else picking up for re-up? He's still working on a consultation, not my discussion, so let's see if that's the third tai that we should put it in or that we should possibly go as a special tai, since it includes more laws, more other agendas. Do you want us to go right away and make it like the first tad or the last one, which doesn't essentially change things? Or we can do it with each of the proposals, since you have not now included in general but in particular certain decrees, that we are making a special conclusion for each of us to... shorten the amendment phase, so I am asking you to bear in mind that the proposal for a decision relating to the College and referring to the law on the census, so, with consultation within the College itself, therefore, includes a 15-day deadline, so that we exclude it from this. Okay. Then let it go under the third order of business. Do you agree? Okay. Well, if there are no more reports, I'm closing this discussion. And, given our business order, we need to make a statement practically on the completion of the 3rd tai agenda and vote only on it, and we do not vote on the rest of the agenda. The first session is like this, so I remind you. At this point, I'm going to start a vote with, of course, the hope that we have technical conditions to get it done. If there are no technical conditions, then we'll go to the polls through the charts. /Deal with the service/ Therefore, the third paragraph is amended in addition to the proposal for the conclusion of the BiH House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and dwellings in BiH in 2011, the number of the above proposed House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is thought of this law, so it is complemented by Mr Simić's proposal as chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the People's House with the text set out in the minutes. So we're voting on whether we're in favour of such a change of this point 3. I'm starting the vote. The vote is closed. I agree, the vote... in the debate on the agenda of 15 present 'for' voted 15, 'against' and 'abstained' no one; from the Federation of BiH 'for' voted 10, the RS 'for' voted five. There's a general majority and there's an entity majority. I conclude that the proposed amendment has been adopted and I conclude that the proposed agenda has been adopted. 6 We move to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 2nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u72	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u73	Well, I'm not, I just have one now, okay? I find for the record that we haven't concluded this agenda. So, it's still under way. The delegation question was answered by a learned colleague, Mladen Ivanić. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u74	I would ask the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to answer the question, "What can I do to make sure that in Glammoi, where a large number of Serb returnees have a very large number of children at school, over 100, do not have classes in Serbian language? And I would really ask the answer to the question: moţe the refugee ministry also think about doing that large number of returnees who are there and over 100 children be able to study in their own language? I don't think... there's anything done about it, and it's becoming a problem because a number of families have decided to retire from that space again." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u75	I thank your colleague Ivanic. Can a representative of this ministry answer a question and have a representative of the ministry? There isn't. Since there is no representative of this ministry, can anyone, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, answer that question? I don't see any of the Council of Ministers ţeli to take a decision. I can tell that there are no conditions to answer this question in oral form. I ask my colleague Ivanić to submit in writing this question, which will be forwarded to the address he listed in his delegate question. Thank you. Does anyone else want to participate in this agenda? No more reports. I think we can close this agenda now. We're going to the third one on the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a conclusion of the Faculty of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011, issue: 02-02-9-37/10 of 2. Seven. 2010th, Proposer: BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives 8 The third item of the agenda is related to the draft conclusion of the BiH House of Peoples College of the Parliamentary Assembly on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is proposed before I open a debate on the above-mentioned agenda, I would like to give you a few introductory notes. The College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly is held at the 2nd session, held on 6. Seven. In 2011, during the establishment of the agenda of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly discussed the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011, he proposed that the Representatives of the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be represented as a possible agenda of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In this regard, the College of the People's House agreed on a proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011, which is on the agenda of today's session. At the 48th session of the House of Peoples, held in 13.7.2010, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Proposal for a Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011. In the previous assembly of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in accordance with Article 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Slobodan Šaraba delegates (26. Seven. 2010) and Zoran Koprivica (23rd Seven. In 2010, they renewed the amendments to the 2011 Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH. The proposal for a law was not discussed in the second paragraph. In order to allow delegates enough time and opportunity to act as an amendment, and given the new assembly, the College of the House of Nations agreed on a proposal for a conclusion today to be made, which reads: "The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH extends the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011 for 15 days from the day of adoption of this conclusion at the meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." Given that we also have an addition to the agenda today, and since the proposals are in principle uniquely necessary to propose before the opening of the discussion, I would ask Mr Krstan Simić for business reasons to repeat on the record the proposal for a conclusion he gave in the explanation of the amendment proposal and the completion of the agenda so that we can open a single debate afterwards and I believe it is successful to conclude and very, very effectively. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u77	Chairman, I have provided the technical service with the text of this conclusion and... the needs of re-imposing it, but the reasons I wish to state are precisely effective work to give these five laws the time to be able to take at the next session, which is scheduled for 28, and to put these laws on the agenda, to consider them and to make a decision. If there is a need for the minutes, I will read it or if necessary, I can deliver the original text. Here, I'm delivering the original text as an integral part of the record, so we don't waste much time. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u78	Thank you, fellow Simić. I'm opening a discussion on this agenda. A colleague named Mladen Ivanić reported on the re-enactment. I'm looking here to leave me an option to allow him... _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ What?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u80	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u81	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u82	And can we solve these problems? _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ And it's gonna stand like that all the time? _________(?) /no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u87	Will you give me a solution then?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u88	So will you? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u89	When you open...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u90	I opened it. The second discussion of his colleague Ivanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u91	There will be more discussion today, just for the record. I think that I am encouraged by the fact that the Bill of Lists has remained ţiv for me, given that I voted and intended to vote in favour of this law and in my last term of office when I was right. And I hope that in this amendment phase something else will be improved, if it can be fixed, but I want to tell all of us: the one who talks about it when and which was as a cause is meaninglessly edgy that doesn't even think of anything. He only serves as an opportunity to tell how they won, and others how they lost as a god. And he who has won, and he has not lost. We are determined by the Constitution as many of us in this House, the Presidency has been decided by the Constitution, the Council of Ministers has been decreed by the Constitution, it is decided that no less than one-third of us can be from the RS, the House of Representatives has been decided by the Constitution and, in essence, when we talk about BiH institutions, this law has nothing to apply to. When it comes to the time limit of its application, it may be possible for some of, let's say, low-level inventors, but I don't think it's so crucial that because of these things can be done, especially since from the point of view, I am now speaking as a Serbian delegate, I don't believe that our participation in the entire population will be more significant to change. Therefore, I support and although I am from the opposition I will vote for this proposal to conclude, but because I think I was right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ivanić. Is there anyone else reporting for re-up from the delegates present? Niko.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u93	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u94	It doesn't say. I'm asking you to repeat your application. There's now an application. A trusted colleague, Staša Košarac, called in. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u95	First of all, I ţelim like to welcome the working presidency, the members of the Council of Ministers, the adopted ministers and dear colleagues. I think it is very important today to support the conclusion of the College of the People's House, given the fact that 'The Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH' is a very important law for BiH which can be treated as a very important internal issue of overall relations in BiH 11 for one simple reason why we are witnessing the different interpretations of certain provisions and application of the '91 census law. In this period of 15 days, and I think it is very important to provide a full political consensus for this process in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to go very quickly, very affirmative for the overall internal relations in BiH, protecting of course the elemental human rights, of course the BiH Constitution. With this in mind, our club will support this proposal for a conclusion and we believe it is very useful because of future relations in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u96	I thank my colleague, Košarac. Can I say that there are no more reports, because now I'm not sure?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u97	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u98	Here we are waiting for an identification for a colleague of the Tihić. So there's an application for discussion. Dear colleague Sulejman Tihić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u99	takoċer, I ţelim like to welcome all the delegates of the House of Peoples, to support the proposal of this conclusion, to supplement what Mr Mladen Ivanić said, that the issues of ethnic representation are resolved not only by the Constitution of BiH but also by the Constitution of the entities, and by one and the other, that the provision contained in the Bill on the List of Population can stand, not be disturbed, can stand in the Election Law, but in any case leaves us with enough space to reach a compromise within the next 15 days that will allow us to adopt this law and give the House of People a good example of agreeing and resolving these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u100	I thank Mr. Tihić. This agenda is still open. I don't know if anyone tried to file a report and I don't have one. Comrade Simić, I apologize, only to wait for him to appear here on the monitor. A well-known colleague, Krstan Simić, called.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u101	... this conclusion and I believe that the census law is something that BiH and this society need. meċutim, I must refer to Mr Ivanić and Mr Tihić's discussions. We've gotten a little bit into the very content of the law, but here it's whether we support this 12 conclusions or not. But they did raise some serious questions. To answer Mr. Tihić, I fully agree that this issue was resolved, at the level of the BiH Constitution, at the level of the entity's constitution. But I'll remind you of an anecdote. When I took one exam with the professor we all know, Admir Lukić, when he asked me what the difference was between the laws that were passed before the capitalisation of Yugoslavia and after, whether they were irrelevant and nonexistent, so when I guessed, say why. And I went down with my shoulders, it was that time, say, the legislator was stupid. I'm afraid we're not writing anything in the law that doesn't have any purpose, which has no purpose, no need to be stupid. That's the essence of this question. And there's no one's right to question... that he's in power and that he's in control of how the Constitution regulated it. But such a provision in the law would lead us to the question of this professor Lukić: why did someone ever do it? I'd still be if we didn't look stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u102	I thank my colleague Simić. moţda I'll just find out now that we have a kind of look in common with all of SNSD and PDP on this issue, so since the amendment phase you're proposing is, is the amendment that you're removing this élan that you're saying is pointless. That might be good. Thank you. Does more reported appear in the context of this current agenda? I don't have an I.D. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to ask you this question more than once during this session, afraid to accidentally deny someone the right to participate in the discussion. Oh, no? Thank you. I find the debate on this agenda closed. And now I invite you to make a separate statement about two proposed conclusions. For the sake of rationality, I will call this first conclusion at the vote by calling the conclusion of the College, which was proposed by the College, and this second conclusion is called the conclusion proposed by Mr Krstan Simić, as president of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples, with the fact that we now have a technical problem which is that we have to hold two votes in one of these agendas, and in this electronic form we have one material, which would know or repeat the vote, which would be incorrect for the record, so now...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u103	It's got a different function.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u104	Okay, here's an option for everyone. Now we'll see if it works. Okay. You'll hold the vote. Here you go. So, I invite you to make a statement about the first conclusion. Please initiate the vote. I find the vote is over. Regular number three. (in the first round): of the 15 present, all 15 delegates voted in favour; from Federation of BiH 10, from RS five – all 'for'. So we met the requirements of the general majority and the entity majority. I find this conclusion unanimously adopted. 13 I urge you to initiate a second vote. I find the vote closed. In the first round of voting on the second conclusion: of the 15 delegates present, 'for' voted 15; from Federation 10, from RS five, we have a general majority and entity majority. I also find that the second conclusion has been unanimously adopted. We're going to the fourth grade of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposed wine law BiH, link: Act No 01,02-02-2-50/10, of 17. 8. 2010 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first entry of the bill, in accordance with the 100th Amendment. The Rules of Procedure, and the debate is first on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have been given the opinion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications, which has adopted the principles of the bill and proposed to the House of Peoples the adoption of a certain conclusion. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first article. I give the chairman of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović. You must report to your colleague Bećirović, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u106	... Mr. Chairman, yes, at last, it worked. I think that since we have submitted written proposals for the laws of our jurisdiction, I don't think we have, and for rationality, the need to specifically explain these proposals, since they are condensed after the debate in a concrete proposal in the House, as you said, so I suggest that you just... mention and you state what they are. If there is a need for us to discuss something further or to further explain ourselves, then we will, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u107	Mr. Bećirović, I thank you for this part of the question. However, this is a reason for your participation in this area as proposed by the Commission, because you have an advantage, it is related to the conclusion of the Commission in relation to language, letter, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u108	Yes, and that conclusion was proposed in writing. So here, if you please, then by considering all the materials we have observed that there are certain problems with achieving constitutional law on language, language equality in the discussion of material in accordance with the Constitution, we have sent a request to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the Council of Ministers for Proposals of the Laws delivered in the parliamentary procedure, which is done in accordance with BiH's legislation with EU legislation, to provide a comparison of 14 compliance with these provisions of the EU legislation. So, the chairman, this is about a second conclusion. It's a second conclusion, and this is going to be the second law around the language. We have noticed that the Council of Ministers does not provide timely assistance from the competent authority, so to speak, a report that would be integrated into the draft laws from the point of view of our legislation with EU legislation in relation to the obligations under the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement, regardless of the fact that at this stage, it may sometimes be impossible to do so, but we think that the bill should indicate what it is and what is not harmonised and because ĉega what is not harmonised at the moment in the law that is proposed with EU rights under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. They would beg the House of Peoples to adopt a conclusion like this. That's the conclusion with this proposal for a wine law. In fact, we suggest that the Wine Act be adopted in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u109	I thank my colleague Bećirović. I am now calling on Mr. Now to explain the matter of this law. Minister Mladen Zirojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u110	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Delegates, fellow ministers, media representatives, ladies and gentlemen, as it is the first time I have addressed this home in this session, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you, to congratulate you on your election to this very high home and to wish you much happiness in your work during the term of office for which you are elected. The bill that is before you, but a short few decisions on your law: you know that the Wine Act was passed around the same time as the Agriculture Act, in mid-2008, published in the "Official Messenger" 25/08 and already trying to pass some 17 sublegal acts, for which two working groups were in charge, has proved to be very, very difficult to implement. We started to amend and supplement the current law and, when we entered a deeper analysis, we noticed that the number of provisions that proved to be insufficiently good solutions and the number of provisions that need to be taken in terms of taking over European standards that we must go to the making of a new law because, in accordance with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules, the number of provisions that are changing exceeds 50%. Of course, we have made the draft law as transparent as possible, including all associations of winemakers, winemakers and the production of wine products, as well as control-inspective bodies, because they have just had one large number of objections related to the implementation of your law. It is clear... and here is the reason that it is not fully aligned with EU legislation but also has a quality explanation why it is so. A brief review of the debate that was held in the House of Representatives. Honestly, there was a number of amendments that your colleagues in the House of Representatives made. Most of them we considered justified, and so were I, too, very irrational remarks that this law was disenfranchised by the state. Absolutely not, especially if it is taken into account the ĉinjenica that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations as a roof at the state level proposes to the Council of 15 ministers of all regulations in this area, so I think this law is a good basis, but certainly your remarks and suggestions will be taken into consideration. And here, perhaps a little out of the ordinary, I did it in front of the Bureau members and fellow ministers, and I think what I'm about to say will sound encouraging. morati'm going to have to get off the subject, of course. So for you information, I think we're on track to finally solve one of the three conditions for application of candidate status. Namely, the State Aid Act, I recently had a final meeting with all the competent institutions in BiH. There was an important delegation from Brussels, led by Mrs. Pampeloni, and 98% of the provisions we agreed absolutely, one or two of them were disputed, and I think there will be compromise and that you will soon have this important law in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u111	I thank Mr Zirojević and ţelim him luck in finding a constitutional basis with this other topic that is not on this agenda now, about the State Aid Act. I thank you for your proposal. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a review or applying for a discussion? Okay. I'd like to say that a very well-known colleague, Borjana Krišto, has come forward. Here you go, Lady Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, Vice-Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys to the House of Peoples, respected ministers and deputies in the Council of Ministers, authorised promoters, distinguished guests and respected media, I warmly welcome you all. Here, we have come from the Minister about the Bill's proposal and, of course, the views of the Committee that this law fulfils, in some ways, and the basis and content of the necessary reasons for the adoption of the law in addition to these technical remarks that we have made, which apply both to language and to certain compliance with EU rules. But since we know that the adoption of this law is necessary for BiH's candidate status, in this case I would like to say that we support the adoption of this law. But in this case, I'm interested in it, so I'm going to shorten everything that's actually an authorised proposer, the adopted minister, said here that a new law is being passed because of a number of provisions that are changing, etc. I want to say that this law is too great for us to be able to make a simple statement about it. This law regulates how wine production, wine processing, protection, and it educates us on different wines, which is perhaps the least important at this point, is the regulation and the transport of wine and this is actually all too much to implement the law because here is a significant role of administrative, i.e. inspection supervision. At this point, in order to be clear later in the amendment procedure, I need to know if you have consulted the association's electrical opinions, although you have said briefly, but with this explanation, we do not have a written opinion. So if we don't have the views of the associations, I would say that I will act in front of the club and address winemakers' associations, of course both in Herzegovina and in BiH, so that in the context of the amendment, we can pass a law that would really be 16 quality, both for the winemakers and for BiH on its way to the EU, and in order for us, as envoys, to be responsible for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. The next debater is a learned colleague, Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u114	I hope to end this and not put too much pressure on you today. I'll be against this law, or I won't support it because I think it's a transfer of jurisdiction. The SNSD, or government in the RS, let me put it this way, boasted very much about how it would defend RS jurisdiction. The constitutional basis could be foreign trade in wine. So what might be the real name of this law should be 'The Export and Import Law of Wine to BiH' and then I could support it. And like this, the law that regulates everything – and what production is, and what is wine production, and all procedures at BiH level – I consider the most direct transfer of jurisdiction and therefore cannot support this law. Here, you know my attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u115	I thank my colleague Ivanic. I will vote the way my colleague Vesna Krstovic-Krstović-Spremo voted. The next person to answer for the discussion is a learned colleague, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This discussion of mine will be more of a general character in terms of the question raised by Ivanic, which we have already located, and I am new in this home and do not belong to the order of those who go with always destruction for destruction. Know, I am in line with those who want to make quality solutions and regulations-based solutions, and that the laws remain behind us, as they remained, can freely say, behind the BiH legislators, who certainly had the best laws of all the republics that they were, thanks to certain people who left a trail. Of course, we have already noticed at the first session of the Constitutional Commission a major problem called establishing a constitutional basis for the adoption of certain laws. I think there's such a thing as charm that's a little bit of a concern. I saw a law here in the draft, yesterday was at the Parliamentary Assembly, I don't know if it was adopted, where the constitutional basis is determined by the BiH ustav, this law on national holidays, or religious holidays. The Constitution cannot be the basis. The attitude I represented during this first session of the Constitutional Commission is that here we have a lot of laws already passed in this procedure, but if we want to be responsible we will have to start a question... to propose a future in our drafts and proposals of the law, indeed, we must clearly define the constitutional basis on the basis of their jurisdiction. 17 Calling on -lan IV. where does it say that Parliament is authorized to pass laws? It's a job of Parliament everywhere in the state, it's not jurisdiction. Competence stems from someone else, that parliament has been given the authority to regulate this particular area in the way it is regulated. Thereforeĉak I have one intention – today I also spoke to the Secretary of the Constitutional Legal Commission that if Mr. dţaferović agrees – to hold a joint meeting of both committees, so that the proposed law, and to launch this issue and to really clarify this thematic issue in order for future proposals to have clear standards on what is constitutional, which is not constitutional. It is difficult to find, I agree with Mr Ivanić, it is difficult to find in this constitution, which is indeed, perhaps, the most common constitution in the world that exists – in which is the jurisdiction of this Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt this law. But Mrs. Krišto said quite nicely how important this law is, how much it takes, but I believe that this problem must be removed in the future. In the future, be sure on the Constitutional Commission we will be much, much more rigorous, at least speak for myself and Mr Rodić, that we will indeed seek an explicit constitutional basis to release such laws into the procedure. And I don't think there should be any support for the other delegates in that direction, because there will be no destruction, but it will only be an improvement in the quality of these texts and a clear definition of the basics. Given the fact that this law has already lived in BiH once and has been adopted, I could not make a problem, that we are now going back to... application, then remain in force by that law which is much, much weaker, more unreal with BiH's needs on the way to the EU. So my reason was and therefore I was very, very flexible when I ruled out a more serious debate on constitutional law, but in the future we won't, we won't act on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u117	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, since the next one has been registered for debate by Ognjen Tadić, chairman, I currently chair. Well, here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u118	Dear ladies and gentlemen, respected fellow delegates, this is about the first question of the law and it is about the regulation that comes after the regulation adopted in 2008 and which practically rules out all matter. I am probably the last, and someone willing, to pass by the will, which in this House would agree to any transfer of jurisdiction from the RS to the level of joint BiH authorities. What we, as delegates from the RS, are doing on an example of this law is something we want to introduce as a practice and as a quality. And that is that, with all the questions about the competencies of this home, we also include the opinion and attitude of the entity authorities, and I am not only thinking about the RS, but I invite you to cooperate with the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH, of course, how much you can and how you can communicate with them and how you can relate to this issue. The Serb people's club from this House of Nations has therefore addressed the competent ministry, it is the RS Ministry of Agriculture, and we have received concrete remarks concerning the 18th law. These concrete remarks will certainly be found in order to put us in another position, and then that law, possibly speaking, becomes acceptable and useful. It is only a question of whether such a law should be passed is related to the political will expressed in 2008, how the adopted colleague Mr Simić, i.e. It's about the fact that there's already a law that solves this matter from 2008. We are not only party representatives here, but also the people, but I will remind you that the SDS then did not participate in any majority at the level of joint bodies or in the RS. For this reason, I hope that, for example, we will all show full understanding and that we can improve the things that have been done in the past, and especially with regard to a coordinated relationship, good work, good co-operation between entities and common bodies. I call for us to accept this principle in good faith and that tomorrow, when we finally commit ourselves to the law, we lead the Rañun to the fact that there is no harm to the jurisdiction of the RS or the Federation of BiH, neither individually nor in the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u119	Thank you, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u120	The following came to the discussion from a trusted colleague, Staša Košarac. Mr. Košarac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u121	Thank you. I look forward to the ĉinjenica that wine is a very current issue in BiH. However, the fact that we are very often talking about the transfer of competence while neglecting the fact that the individual roles of actors who have easily transferred competences from entities to BiH level, who have accepted the various opinions of the international community regarding the interpretations and the Dayton Agreement and the overall opportunities in BiH. And on this occasion, I would like to say that Mr Simić has just said one very important feature that is very important here and it is necessary to address the issue of constitutional basis for the adoption of laws at BiH level. And what is very important and what will be a practice in the House of Peoples of BiH, and I believe in the House of Representatives, that we will know very well that we are articulating our interests and attitudes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which has chosen us, in the analysis of the constitutional basis for the adoption of any laws in BiH. In view of the fact that this law was adopted in 2008, that the Ministry responsible for the implementation of this law saw a number of shortcomings and the need to establish the Law on the Wine of BiH, that it treated several opinions of the relevant institutions in BiH, the entity ministries, as I understood, and the association, with regard to the ĉinjenicu that this law passed the first entry in the House of Representatives, that hopefully after the adoption, the amendment phase, we will surely insist, apart from this, Simić was talking about the reasons, i.e. constitutional basis, we will very much insist on the protection of the interests of RS producers and, of course, the fundamental views of the RS ministry in charge. So I think that we have 15 days to define certain amendments, we agree on certain amendments, and I think it's quite correct for us to accept this law 19 in the first article, and then open a full discussion when it comes to amendments, to try to potentially incorporate our suggestions regarding this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u122	I thank my colleague, Košarac. A trusted colleague, Sulejman Tihić, called. Mr. Tihić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u123	You see, I would agree with the previous debaters that the constitutional basis is the beginning of which we are going to debate at all any law, any decision adopted by this Parliament and that this is an important issue which is the basis of any further action in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. When it comes to this concrete law, the constitutional basis existed before when the law and the Council of Ministers were adopted and Parliament must have led the debate on it. I agree with Mr. Krstan Simić that we must sit on one level and a level of electricity and a political level that the issue of constitutional basis – not only of this law but of a series of laws and Stabilisation and Association Agreements, the European Partnership, etc. – we need to consider and find solutions to this issue. moţda one of the constitutional foundations is this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and it can help us. It is an international document that has priority over domestic legislation. If we adopted this once, because of this, it would not be the basis to be able to adopt framework laws, where the state determines about 30%, 40%, 20%, I don't know, the principles of basic postulates of this law, and entities continue to interpret the execution and everything else. And I suppose that both the minister and each minister have consulted the resolution ministries, i.e. entity governments in this regard, by adopting this law, so that we from the SDA will surely support this law first, although we may have some objections in the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u124	I thank my colleague Tihić. A review of the state of the discussion of this agenda tells me that none of the other delegates reported for re-enactment. I understand that this situation has been changed and that a learned colleague Dragutin Rodić has appeared for the re-up. Mr. Rodić, go ahead, and wait for the red marker. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u125	I didn't mean to report for a resolution, but since all of the members of the Serbian People's Club's delegates have said their opinion, I will say for one reason only. 20 I come from the Democratic People's Union and the Democratic People's Union so far has not broken a rule of jurisdiction in any law. I don't want to say that to confirm that we as a party are leading a rigid policy, not realizing the life and reality in which we live. I'd like to say that I had a chance to speak to the deputy high representative a few years ago. When I told him that the students of the law in the first year of the Faculty of Law, what is constitutionality and legality, and that every act of a low legal force must be in accordance with the act of a more legal force, and I received the following answer: do you have the right to think about the next way, to adopt a strict set of laws which, in certain respects, regulate certain legal areas in order to enable the Constitution of BiH and not in itself to be meaningful because we have laws that regulate certain legal substances on certain and other locations? At that time, I was worried, thinking, but when I look at the reality in which we live in BiH today and when we see that under the state's functionality we have received a number of laws that regulate a certain area and do not have constitutional jurisdiction, and not seeing that the time in BiH since the day of the constitution of this House of Peoples, I think today we have established a very good set of proposals, first of all, for we are at the last session of the Constitutional Commission, where colleagues from other clubs and constitutive peoples, I think we have come up with a trail of a possible conclusion, which is exactly what Mr Krstan Simić said. I don't think the constitutional basis is taboo, but we need to sit down, we need to talk, and we need to come up with certain common conclusions. I honestly think that in the next four years before us will find many large political topics and all these topics will be borne, and we as individuals and clubs will be responsible for what we will do. I am deeply committed to looking together with you for certain solutions just looking for what will be constitutional, but certain in order to be functional. Today, in the legal order of BiH, we have a whole series of legal gaps on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have an insolence. How do you find all this? I think this convocation can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u126	Thank you too, Mr. Rodić. The next debater is Mr. Halid Genjac. Before I approve the discussion, I would just like to remind you of certain obligations related to the religious content, so, Mr. Genjac, I do not wish to shorten your discussion, but I am asking you to keep that in mind, as I will also ask Mr. Zirojević, who has applied for the solution, so I have been informed from the Secretariat. Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have opened a topic regarding this so-called agenda that... not only is it of great importance but it also determines our daily reality and our movement towards the EU and, on a certain level, it can be said that the reason we are lagging behind other countries in the region in this business. 21 I can understand that delegates are asking for consultations with entity parliaments, with associations, and that is their legitimate right, namely a formalised institution that this parliament is asking for opinions from entity parliaments, and it is not necessary, because by that logic it could be asked very quickly that the entity parliaments also seek the position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on some laws. Then perhaps the cantonal congregations should look, etc., etc. It's the job of some other institutions, and I don't think... we're going to miss that attitude that should now require views from entity parliaments on some of the laws. There are also clearer competencies in the Constitution, there are double-sensual competencies, but, I say, these are some other authorities called on to solve. And I just want to say, if we're positively oriented, and if we really do have a priority on what we say declare it our priority, we'll find a very good basis for everything we want to do in the Constitution. It also mentions competences to achieve international subjectivity, competencies for the implementation of international agreements, etc., etc. So, if we look positively, we'll be able to find solutions very easily. However, I think in this debate that we're going to open, and I think we should open it, at least I see two essential elements. For this reason, we are four years behind in the most important issues, and in the end, we will be aware of whether the entity is in charge or BiH, in the end we will be aware of what way to make decisions in BiH to transfer competencies to Brussels. Slovenia had a constitutional provision that it was sovereign to all issues where no one can decide. They had to change the Constitution three times to allow the competencies that only the Slovenians were... to let Brussels decide. And that's our way. Simply, if we want to be in the EU, there is no other way, so I think that sometimes, and not sometimes, but very often, because of the political resolution of certain rival competitions in certain entities, the issue of jurisdiction is too much of the same in the first place, it is too much of a daily policy benefit, and in essence it will be aware of what competences we will transfer to Brussels. But I agree that with more sensitivity and more legal knowledge, we need to define this issue in order not to confront this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u128	I thank Mr. Genjac. On the monitor, which helps me with the session, I don't see that there are any more applications for discussion. Here he comes. An esteemed colleague, Krstan Simić, came forward with a replica: 'correction of the false assumption', which is what it says to me here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u129	Mr. Genjac, I'm afraid you misunderstood me. My discussion through the opening of these questions was not a question of whether or not we had jurisdiction. My criticism and my suggestion was that the proposed laws are required to clearly show us this basis, to state it because of the quality of the law, because of ĉega I mentioned to a respected academic, given the fact, see now the law that we are going to discuss today, about anti-doping control, etc., where it is stated, _______________(?) It's not today. 22 is not today, where it is stated that the constitutional basis for freedom of gathering is citizens. I want to protect the integrity of this home, and wherever there is a basis, and you have mentioned some things that can be raised to a large extent by a constitutional basis when it comes to a set of laws that BiH must adopt on its way to Europe, but we must say that this is the international agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, etc., etc. So, here is the essence not of daily politics but of the quality that I share the opinion that you agree with. We must all find together, all define it, and in the laws we have to remain behind the laws for which someone will not tell the legislator was a fool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u131	I thank my distinguished colleague, Krstan Simić. I find these are all the more reasons to open a debate like this right now. On the monitor, I repeat, there's no more I.D. on anyone reporting for re-enactment. Thank you. There is a registered discussion in discussion by Mr. Mladen Zirojević who must address from this all-out pay phone. Here you go, Mr. Zirojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u132	Thank you, Chairman. Here, a brief comment on at least some of the discussions. Again, in mid-2008 this law was passed and that I was at the head of this ministry probably wouldn't have been better, because I simply think that at that point the best possible was done. But here, the practice has shown that businessmen and winemakers want to change the law, they need this. And based on a number of initiatives and suggestions, we set out to do this job. For Lady Krišto, here's just short information. At the level of BiH, we have also asked for the work group's work group and the opinions of the following competent institutions: Directorates for European Integration, Office for Law, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance, Food Safety and Health Protection of Plants; at the ethnic level: Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management of the Republic of Slovenia, Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, Department for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Bręko District, Tourist Inspectorate of the Federal Office for Inspective Affairs, Inspectorate of the Federal Department of Agricultural Affairs, Inspectorate of the Federal Inspectorate of the Federal Inspectorate of the Federal Inspectorate of the Federal Affairs, Inspectorate of the National Affairs, Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, Inspectorate Bręko District – and all their objections and suggestions are entered into the Draft of the Law and if you wish to present this. So, I really think if that law was already passed and if there's a constitutional basis then, I don't see any reason to be a problem right now. Of course, when it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction, we consulted the competent ministries, especially the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Slovenia and they did not have that kind of remark. I really think this law is a good starting point that you should certainly further in the debate. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u133	I thank Mr. Zirojević. I find that there are no more applications for discussion and I am concluding a discussion on this taboo agenda. We will declare the proposed law in the first paragraph, as well as the proposed conclusion by the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs and you will forgive me for what I am going to say, etc. So, I'm asking the service to allow us to vote as well as last time in two counts. So we're starting a vote. I find that with regard to the vote under regular number 4 on the BiH Code of Wine proposal, the BiH Council of Ministers proposes, in the first article,... in the first round, 15 delegates are present. 'For' voted 14, 'against' one, the Federation of BiH 'for' voted 10, the RS 'for' voted 'ĉetiri', one 'against', so I find that with the existence of the general majority and entity majority, this law was adopted in the first paragraph and goes into further procedure. I now call upon you to make a statement on this conclusion by the Commission. I find that after the vote... on the proposed conclusion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the House in the first round, of the 15 delegates present, 'for' voted 14, 'against' none, 'abstained' one. The Federation of BiH's' voted 10, the RS's' voted for 'four delegates','restricted' was one delegate and, with the conclusion that the conditions for the general majority and entity majority were met, I find that this conclusion was adopted. We end this period of the agenda, but we do not move on to the next item of the agenda, but, in accordance with the regular visit, I give a break that lasts until 13.45 for the reasons known. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues, do you agree that we should continue? I don't think we're damaged either as a party or as a club, right, Mrs. Kapetanović, so... they'll join, there's Mr. Genjac in the building, and for Mr. Tihić I have no information. Is he in the building? He won't be mad. Okay. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u141	Nine.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u142	Is it nine? I'm sorry, nine, ad. Nine. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the application and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, link: Act No 01,02-02-5-52/10, of 30. 8. 2010 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH In accordance with Article 100, we are first discussing the necessity of adoption and principles. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission is positive. The House of Representatives passed this law. Mr. Simić, do you want a solution? He doesn't want to. Is he proposing on behalf of him? He suggests there's no need to talk. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? Niko. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm starting the vote. 27 In the vote under the regular number 9 on the bill of the 9th of the 15 present in the first round 15 was 'for'; from Federation 10, from RS five. Satisfied with the general and entity majority. Law adopted. We're moving on to Table 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act: Act No 01,02-1-2/11, of 22. 3. 2011 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u147	/microphone not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u148	It didn't vote, so then the abstentions go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u149	The vote again. Okay. The ladies are a little off today. With all due respect, it's not a provocation, thank you for that view. I won't cross the border anymore. As Mr. Tadić put it, he has a red line.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u150	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u151	Shall we do it again? There's no need. I think... we're all in. Okay. Mr. Genjac, is he present in the O.R.? _________(?) He came out when the vote started. It's raĉuna, according to the Rules of Procedure, if it's out of the O.R. and it's included in'restraint', so I'm asking it to be determined on the record. So, in the re-election on the Bill proposal from the 11th agenda... of the 15 present, 'for' was 13, 'no' no one,'remained' two delegates, and that from Federation eight was 'for', the two were'remained', the RS five was 'for'. Satisfied the general and entity majority. I find that this law was passed in the first place. 29 We move on to Table 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mineral Welfares, Link: Act No 01,02-02-2-53/10, of 5. Ten. 2010 (first reading), Proposer: BiH House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u154	/microphone not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Does he propose he wants a solution? Didn't you see the suggestion? Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Is anyone picking up for re-up? Niko. Thank you. We're going to vote. I'm starting the vote. The vote... on the Bill's proposal from Table 12 was completed in the first round. Of the 14 present 14 were 'for'; from Federation nine, from Republika Srpska Five. General and entity majority satisfied. I find that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on mineral fertilisers has been adopted in the first article. We move to the next item of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act, link: Act No 01.02-02-1-9/11, of 24. 5. 2011 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH In line with the 100th debate on the necessity of adoption and principles, it should be implemented. The Commission's opinion on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication is positive. The House of Representatives passed the bill. Sir, would you like to speak? 30
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u157	/microphone not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. On behalf of him, would anyone like to speak? _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ Your predecessors said they didn't want to turn around. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 31 Very short. Today's session of our committee is unanimous 'that the amendment phase under this law should be reduced to seven days so that the full procedure can be completed in this month'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u163	I thank Mr. edovic. Does he have any need to speak? Do we have any suggestions at all? Are we going to make a statement about this, or are we going to continue this agenda, and according to the Rules of Procedure, we should make a statement about whether we will continue with this fee if the proposal is not present? __________(?) /microphone not enabled/ To honor the Rules of Procedure, we will now have three votes: 1. Do we continue to do this on the agenda; 2. Do we adopt such a bill on amendments and additions to the law; and 3. A statement on the Commission's proposal for a zakljuĉku; I am launching the first vote. Are we going to work? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u165	We'll have to do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u166	Do we have to do it again? We'll have to. Then you manage now in this part when there are more of these. So, we're back on the agenda. We'll do it again. So, first we vote now on continuing to work on this agenda for the absence of the proposal. It's repeated for technique. Here you go. Give us an option. The vote... on whether to continue to work on this agenda in accordance with the business provision for the absence of the proposal was completed in the first round by 14 present for the continuation of the work there were 14 votes 'for'; from Federation nine, from Republika Srpska Five. The general and entity majority were satisfied. We're going to vote on the bill. I find that this law has been passed... in the first instance. Of the 14 present 14 were 'for'; from Federation nine, from RS five. The general and entity majority were satisfied. 32 We move to the vote on Zakljak under number 023582432a11 of 15. Seven. 2011 Give us the terms. In the vote... on the bill's proposal in the first round,... excuse me, zakljuĉka: in the first round of 14 present 'for' voted 14, of which nine from the Federation, five from Republika Srpska. Satisfied the general and entity majority. I find it unanimously adopted to cut the amendment phase for the bill in the first paragraph for seven days. We're moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u167	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u168	I'm sorry. I am duţan to give again to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mr Õovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u169	My apologies or those who didn't warn us. At the previous session of the Committee, we have also reached another conclusion, a session of the 7.7 commission, where we have said 'we are in charge of the Management Board of indirect taxation that the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Nations delivers an opinion on the Proposal for Law'.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u170	To another point, you mean. Okay. We can formally put this to a vote, since this is the Commission's proposal for finance and budget. Do you want to discuss this agenda? No, I don't. Thank you. So, I invite you to come forward with me now and this conclusion. In the vote... on the Commission's proposal for budget and finance in the first round of 14 there were 14; from Federation nine, from Republika Srpska Five. They're satisfied with the general and entity majority. I find this conclusion adopted. We're going to the next item of the agenda, that's the number 15. Ad. 15. Selection of members of delegations from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in: (a) Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSSE), 33 b) Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (PSOEBS), (c) Central European Initiative (CEI), Delegation to the Central European Initiative, d) Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO (PSNATO), e) Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean (PSM) and f) Delegation to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH at the Interparliamentary Union (IOU) The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH informed the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly that at the 2nd session of the House of Representatives he appointed the permanent delegations from the House of Representatives. The College of the People's House is at the second session, 6. Seven. In 2011, it examined the criteria for the selection of delegates for permanent delegations established by the House of Representatives. With regard to the College of the People's House, he decided to comply with the 1970s. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Joint College of both homes lay down criteria for the selection of permanent delegations. The Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, together with the chair of the chair clubs of the people and the chair of the parties at the first session, held 7. Seven. In 2011, he established the criteria that were delivered to you. We are left with the appointment of delegates from the House of Peoples in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in line with the criteria achieved in accordance with the 170th International Assembly. Rules of Procedure, both at home. You have in the materials (I wouldn't read all the names now) related to the members of these delegations, so I would end up with this part of my conversation. And given that I have been informed that the clubs of the people have considered this issue and identified the proposals, I call on now to propose, in the capacity of the heads of the clubs of the people, each of the three peoples, in fact to declare their proposals for the completion of these permanent delegations. Well, here we go, Mr. Staša Košarac, the distinguished delegate and club chief; I apologize, Mrs. Borjana Krišto has already answered. Mr. Košarac, as a gentleman, I ask you to wait for Mrs. Borjana Krišto to finish. I apologize, so you can see which club did the best work. Dear colleague, Lady Krišto, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u172	Thank you very much. Here according to what you've already said, the common criteria of... The Joint College set out the criteria and, accordingly, the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of five members and five deputies from the House of People in front of the Croatian People's Club was proposed to Borjana Krišto. Which makes you a deputy, Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak, from the House of the Peoples. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u173	I apologize, Lady Krišto, for talking about the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u174	That's right. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ Yeah, one.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u176	I have material that, perhaps, I really apologize to you, so you're talking now about Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak of the SDP from the Croatian People's Club of Delegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u177	That's right, that's right. I don't know what's controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u178	Well, a little Mr. Tihić confused me.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u179	I said in front of... The Croatian People's Club... znaĉi, we've finished our delegation to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u180	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u181	Under the number 2nd delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation – Dr Dragan ĉović. Then the Interparliamentary Group of BiH, known as the 6th in the Interparliamentary Union, is 11th in the country. From the House of People in front of the Croatian People's Club Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. The next person to report for a re-enactment is a trusted colleague, Staša Košarac, on behalf of the Serbian People's Club. Here you are, Mr. Košarac, with an apology for not seeing Mrs. Krišto come forward earlier, so I had to interrupt you. Thirty-five here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u183	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to the delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we propose Mr Mladen Ivanić as a substitute. Under 3. The Central European Initiative, talked about from the House of Peoples Mr. Krstan Simić. Under 5. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, a member of the House of the Peoples, Mr Ognjen Tadić. Under 6. The Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, talked to by the House of the Peoples, Mr Dragutin Rodić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u184	I thank you, too, Comrade Košarac. Mr. Genjac, you'll have to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u185	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u186	No, you're not, I don't have a record.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u187	The Bošnjak Club proposes under 1st in a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Deputy Nermina Kapetanović. Under the 6th in the BiH Interparliamentary Group delegation in the Interparliamentary Union from the Bosniak Club Hasan Bećirović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u188	I thank Mr. Genjac. I'm opening a discussion on this agenda. The record I've got tells me there's no record of a discussion. Thank you. I am closing the discussion on this agenda and I am establishing the following proposal (please closely follow what I am saying, I would not like to make a mistake about the minutes). So, the House of Peoples at the 3rd session, held on 15. Seven. In 2011, a permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was elected by Mrs Borjana Krišto, and for Deputys Mr Krunoslav Vrdoljak, Mrs Nermina Kapetanović and Mr Mladen Ivanić. 36 For the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation of the Organisation for European Security, the election of Mr Dragan ĉovića. For the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in the Central European Initiative, Mr Krstan Simić is elected. For the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations in the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, Ognjen Tadic is elected by Ognjen Tadić. For the BiH Interparliamentary Group in the Interparliamentary Union, Krunoslav Vrdoljak, Hasan Bećirović and Mr Dragutin Rodić are elected by Krunoslav Vrdoljak, Hasan Bećirovic. So this is the proposal we're pleading on. I'm starting the vote. The vote is closed. In the vote... according to the motion for a decision as set out in the minutes on the 15th agenda of this session in the first round of 15 attending 15 voted 'yes', from Federation 10, from Republika Srpska Five, with the satisfied general and entity majority. I find the decision has been unanimously adopted. We're moving on to Table 16. Ad. 16. The appointment of three members from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Joint Commission in order to achieve the same text on the amendment and addition of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is proposed by the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly at the 49th session held 1. Nine. In 2010, he adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with an amendment that reads: 'Head I is deleted'. House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly at the 77th session held on 12. Seven. In 2010, he adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the proposed text. Since the above proposed amendments and additions to the Code were adopted in a different text compared to the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples appointed three delegates to the Joint Committee on Harmonisation of the text of the Code. Since the appointed delegates are no longer delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we now have three delegates left to appoint in the Joint Committee for Harmonisation of the text of the Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the 3rd session, held 22nd session Six. In 2011, he appointed the members of the Joint Committee for Harmonising the text Proposal for Amendments and 37 additions to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and this: Mr Boško Tomić, Ms Danijela Martinović and Mr Šefik dţaferovića. I call on the heads of the MPs' clubs to comply with the agreement within the club, and I have been informed that such arrangements exist, in the capacity to propose proposals for one member of this commission to form a tripartite committee of the House of Peoples. Mrs. Borjana Krišto called.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u190	Thank you very much. In the Joint Committee for the Consent of Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Representatives and Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in front of the Croatian People's Club, we propose to Mr Josip merdţu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. A trusted colleague, Staša Košarac, called in. Here you go, colleague of the Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u192	takoċe, we propose to this Joint Commission in front of Mr Dragutin Rodić's Club of Serbs.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u193	I'd like to thank my colleague, Košarac. I'd like to invite my colleague Halid Genjac, an esteemed delegate, to pick up a re-enactment.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u194	So, the Bosniak Club proposes to Mrs. Nermin Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u195	I thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm opening a discussion on this agenda. I moţda ask if all the members of the group accept this obligation. Thank you. I'm closing the discussion. There are no reports. I invite you to make a statement about this decision. I'm starting the vote. The vote is over. .... The decision was made on the 16th agenda, and in the first round of 15 there were 'for'; from Federation 10, from Republika Srpska Five. Satisfied the general and entity majority. I find that Mr Josip merdţo, Mr Dragutin Rodić and Mrs Nermina Kapetanović have been elected to this committee. 38 We move on to the next...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u196	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u197	I'm sorry. So, on the agenda of today's session, we have even more than we've worked out so far, and we are able to combine the discussion and clarification of the agreement's approval to ratify the agreements that are contained in your materials from taièka 17 to takva 34, including takuk 34. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify those agreements, amendments, protocols and contracts. Now I'm opening a debate... whether we should approach this kind of debate, work and plea. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u200	I, the chairman, above all because of your insistence on the Commission at this conclusion, would just like to repeat this conclusion once again, which the chairman has a little wish to adopt, and is related to this agreement. So, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications suggests the following conclusion: 'The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires that when the acts are delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, they strictly adhere to constitutional provisions concerning language and letter'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-15-0.u201	I thank Mr Bećirović. Is anyone answering for a discussion? He's not answering, thank you. I'm locking up a discussion on this agenda. Now we move on to a vote that brings us all together, so that's what we're talking about from the 17th to the 34th, including the 34th. I'm starting the vote. So, I find that in the vote... The people's homes, declaring all the agreements, agreements and agreements between Tadjka 17th and Tadjka 34th, including that of 34th, voted in the first round of voting with 15 votes in favour; from Federation 10, from Republika Srpska Five, were satisfied with both the general and entity majority, so all the agreements, contracts and other acts from Tadjka 17th to Tadjka 34th, including 34th, were agreed upon by the House of Nations. I now call on you to make a statement on this conclusion which Mr Hasan Bećirović explained on behalf of the Commission on behalf of the e-mail. I'm starting the vote. I find that by voting on the Commission's proposal for foreign and customs policy in the first round of 15 people: 15 were a proposed conclusion; from Federation 10, from Republika Srpska Five, they were respected both by the general and entity majority, so the proposed conclusion was adopted. Given that we have exhausted the agenda to this end, I thank all the delegates present and inform you that the College of the People's House will hold its session after this session when it will set the time for the next session of the House of Nations, which you will naturally be informed of. Thank you. The seat is closed at 14.35. 40
