ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5560	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 7th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Kingdom of Norway, a great and witnessed friend of BiH, faced these days with the consequences of terrorism that has caused the deaths of many citizens of this country. In solidarity with the people of the friendly Kingdom of Norway, I suggest we pay tribute to the 71 dead, victims of this terrorist attack in front of the government building in Oslo and the island of Utoj, hoping that this tragedy will never happen to anyone again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5562	Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. At the session we also invited all representatives of institutions whose materials are on the agenda today. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, there are 34 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to introduce you to the agenda that we have downloaded item 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens, as the Constitutional Commission adopted a decision on the maintenance of a public debate to be held on 6.9.2011. We've completed point 9. The draft law amending the Ministry Act and other administration bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina was item 10 on the earlier agenda. – with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission; point 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act was item 12 on the earlier agenda. – with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. ... However, we do have Mr Beriz Belkić to discuss the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5563	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no direct suggestion, so to speak, to amend the agenda, but I have one suggestion. So obviously that we do not have this confirmation of the mandate today, of course, for the reasons known, this Parliament has not even received it until today, but the media, using statements that our next session will be somewhere on August 25th, but formulate the situation that Parliament will lose it for at least a month. I think it would be good if the College or we told the public today and announced that Parliament is absolutely ready, if we get that man's name tomorrow, we will implement the procedure. So, not to replace the thesis because I already listen to the radio this morning that Parliament is going on vacation and that it will disable, for at least a month, the appointment of the prime minister, which is not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5564	On behalf of the PSBiH House of Representatives, I would just like to remind myself of the fact that Parliament, that is, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in August will have at least one working session that has already been scheduled. We deliberately left the possibility of calling the House of Representatives at any time in August and considering a proposal to approve the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, of course, provided that the BiH presidency delivers such a candidate to the House of Representatives. I remind you, too, that in the previous four years we have not had one session in August of the month and that this time, therefore, we have determined that we have at least one session of the House of Representatives. We have already scheduled for August and a session of the House Colleges and the Extended College of the House and the House Session. And I remind you once again of the commitment we adopted during the August calendar, in any event, all MPs are required to respond to the PSBiH House of Representatives meeting if the proposal comes from the BiH presidency. So much for this information, which was discussed by counterpart Beriz Belkić. I find that the 7th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives has the following 1. The adoption of minutes 5 and 6 of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Wine of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-5010, of 17. 8. 2010 (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mineral Cares, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-2-5310, of 5. Ten. 2010 (second reading); 3 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-711, of 12. 5. 2011 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-911, of 24. 5. 2011 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5510, of 11. Ten. In 2010 (second reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-211, of 22. 3. 2011 (second reading); 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-6010, of 26. Ten. In 2010, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 10. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-6510, of 2. 12. 2010 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5910, of 19.10.2010, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 12. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010, material No 01,02,011-08-38411, dated 20. 5. 2011 (the debate was held at the 5th session of the House of Representatives, held on 14. Seven. 2011); 13. Report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's complaint committee for 2010, material No. 063-50-1-76-20-311, of 16. 3. 2011; 14. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2010 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2011, material No. 062-50-1 51-1211, dated 28. 1. 2011; 15. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2010, material No 01,02-50-19-31311, dated 18. 4. 2011; 16. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2010, material No 01,02-50-19-45711, of 26. 5. 2011; 17. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Traffic Agency for 2010, material No 01,02-29-24111, dated 18. 3. 2011; 18. Report on the activities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office for 2010, material No 01-50-19-26011, dated 28. 3. 2011; 19. Annual Financial Report of the Office for the Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions for 2010, material number 014-16-1-20511, of 4. 3. 2011; 20. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2010, material No 01,02-50-19-27611, of 5. 4. 2011; 21. 2010 BHRT Work and Business Report, material No 01,02-50-19-35211, of 4. 5. 2011; 22. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's 2010 Human Rights Institution, material No 01-12-34111, of 28. 4. 2011; 4 23. Special Report on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (P-32010), Material of the Human Rights Institution of BiH, issue 01,02-12-141210, of 16. 12. 2011; 24. Report on the work of the 2010 Appeal Office, material No 01,02-50-19-24811, of 22. 3. 2011; 25. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010, material number 03-50-19-318-111, of 4. 5. 2011; 26. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Dušanka Majkić's proposal from the 5th session of the House to discuss the BiH Law Department's work report for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010, which reads "A report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2010 to return to the BiH Law Department with the aim of reaching agreement between the Advocates and the Deputy Advocates"; 27. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010, material number 012-09-48311, of 2. Six. 2011; 28. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (Common College of both homes); 29. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of a state bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj and the connected border sections of the highway in Corridor Vc; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the way of financing and development of the main project, and the delivery of administrative procedures for the assessment of environmental impacts, the acquisition of local permits, the consent and building permits for the project 'Rehabilitation and modernisation of the Sava waterway from Racanovac to Sisak'; 31. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Poland for Co-operation in Agriculture; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan guarantee agreement for the company Vodavod and sewerage A.D. Bijeljina between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement – Municipal level of support for infrastructure projects – as part of the multi-user IPA 2008 programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank; 35. Giving consent to ratifying the Amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, and the Government of the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Finance Minister for Financial Co-operation; 36. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income and property taxes; 5 37 Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage, Strasbourg, 8. 11. 2001; 38. Giving consent to ratify the loan agreement between the European Union, as a lender, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a borrower, and the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as an agent for paying the borrower 39. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on the mere enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters; 40. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on legal aid in civil and criminal matters; 41. Giving consent to the ratification of the Flood Protection Protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement; 42. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding for Co-operation on Security between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the State of Qatar; 43. To give an opinion on the agreement to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding between the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and the National Institution of Participants (NPI) – the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, with the aim of provoking the project 'Financing investments in energy efficiency to mitigate climate change', we move to the first point of the agenda, Add. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th and 6th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5567	I have an objection to the 5th session. On page 11, it is said that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act was adopted in a second reading, which is not true. It was then adopted in the first reading because we today have it as the seventh item of the agenda in the second reading. So it should say that it was adopted in the first reading, page 11. - The law on single birth numbers. Also, I have an observation, on page 16. It is true that I have proposed candidates for Director and Deputy Director – Director of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency and are the correct names, but I also said that this is a proposal from the Commission first-ranking candidates. So, it wasn't Beriz Belkić's proposal based on some deal in his pocket, but simply, I tried to get the Commission's proposal into a situation to check out at this House of Representatives. Therefore, it is a proposal first-ranked by the Commission for the Election and I ask that this be entered in the record. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5568	Since there are no more reports, Mr. Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5569	It is true that Mr. Beriz Belkić presented something similar in his debate as a proposal, but it is not true that they are the proposals he made first. So, the first-ranked are the other three of those proposed by Mr Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5570	I'd just invite you to, however, it's about the record, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5571	It is, then, the Word of the Book. So, first-ranked from the order of the people. So, Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat: Huremović, Benković, Krulj received the most votes from the order of the people they belong to.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5572	Mr. Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5573	I would like the Agency's acts to say that representatives of the three constituent nations are elected, but that doesn't say anywhere, that's our deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5574	So, I'm closing the debate on the first item of the agenda and I'm saying, when we vote, this remark by Mr. Belkić, which concerns the 5th session, I don't think it's a problem to enter. When it comes to this addition of the record from the 6th session of the House of Representatives, I will ask that we see exactly how the stenogram reads and that this record be true to the reflection of what you were talking about. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received Until today's session, the answer to the asked question was given by Aleksandra Pandurević of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked at the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, and Azra 7 Hadžiahmetović of the BiH House of Representatives' House of Representatives, asked at the 3rd session. We now move on to b) New parliamentary issues
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5577	It is not a new parliamentary issue, although I do, but it is a comment on the Secretary General's response to the BiH Council of Ministers' reply. I'm partially satisfied with this answer. I didn't even doubt it, and I know the secretary general has very good lessons, but I wanted to locate the problem, see where the problem is, and he's located. The problem is in the ministries, which, I can say, is that they don't give up all the institutions, because what comes to us from the ministries, it's not just about the Serbian language anymore, I was watching, let's say, yesterday we had a law where language categorization is done in writing and oral terms. I said that... all languages are written, there are only illiterate people. According to the Centre of Civil Initiatives, this Council of Ministers has established around 179 laws. This is on average, so annually by the ministry about seven laws or at an annual level of 60 laws. I responsibly claim that these 60 laws in three languages can be lecturing for less than 3,000 marks, it costs... And besides, I don't believe it, and I can't believe that in our ministries there are people like that who don't know any languages, because they told me, they said, "That's not right." I then looked at the versions of certain laws and the other two languages. We're coming, people, here is the elementally illiterate thing... and it's breaking the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. As far as I'm concerned, the Club of Members of the SDS, any law that we receive is not only illiterately written, not only is it not in our language but it comes in both Bosnian and Croatian, the fundamentally illiterate laws will not have the support of any important law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5578	I have several parliamentary issues, however, given the scope of today's agenda, so we have 43 agenda points, I will not ask any questions, I have prepared questions in writing and deliver them to the secretary. The word comes from Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5579	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I have three short questions. The first two are the Council of Ministers and the first is: 'Kosovo has, as is known, introduced customs duties on goods originating in BiH at 10%. Given that this is a violation of the provisions of the CEFTA Free Trade Treaty, the question is: What will BiH institutions do to overcome this, i.e. if anyone considers Kosovo part of Serbia, will it introduce countermeasures to Serbia or will Kosovo relativise this problem?" Second question: "The European Union has also introduced a special tax on plums from BiH as a protection tax and only seasonally, i.e. at the time of maturation and possible exports of plums from BiH to the EU. This is also a matter of violation of the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the question is: What will the Council of Ministers of BiH do on this matter, i.e. Which countermeasures will they eventually introduce?" These two questions were, in fact, the answer to our foreign trade ministry representatives and economic relations which in the last term convinced us that we should not violate the provisions of CEFTA or the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, while our agricultural products fail in BiH and our agricultural production constantly, I will not say stagnier, but fall. That is why I look forward to answering these two questions. The third question is V.D. Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation: 'What will V.D. Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation undertakes to prevent a discriminatory attitude towards importers in the area in the jurisdiction of the customs office of Sarajevo in connection with the assistant director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation for Customs?' According to the news, it is a brutal violation of the law by the executives, and to the harm of the importers, thus also the citizens of BiH. The motives can only be guessed, and when I get the answer, I'll be happy to comment on this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5580	The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5581	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I have one question and one initiative for today's session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. The question is therefore addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH and reads: 'The Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, established in accordance with the Law on Higher Education, 'Official Messenger' No 59/07, is based in Banja Luka. Immediately after the Agency was formed, the RS government adopted 3.7.2008. Decision on the transfer of the right to use Marles real estate, a facility in the center of Banja Luka, a total area of 326 m2 – to Agency 9 for the development of higher education and insurance. However, after a short period of time, the Agency left the above-mentioned facility, which was used for free, and rented a magnificent palace in Banja Luka, Bulevar Duke Step 11, which is paid monthly by more than 10,000 marks, for which around 300,000 marks were spent in three years. I note that there is no information on the address of this institution or the number of phones on the Agency's website, so communication can only be made via e-mail. It is easy to conclude why there is no address: that the accommodation, under quotes, would fall into your eyes. Accordingly, please answer the following questions: '1. What institutions of BiH use rented space, specify the address and number of employees in the institution? 2. For each institution, indicate the individual number of squares used, the price of a meter of square rented space and the total square, i.e. the price to be paid for that rental. 3. Provide the total monthly and annual amount of leases for each individual institution as well as the aggregate amount of leases for all institutions. 4. What will the Council of Ministers do to determine the criteria for renting the business space of BiH institutions and all in order to reduce costs?" So that's a question and I have one initiative, so, according to this parliamentary question. It is evident that the growing number of BiH institutions spends more and more budgets each year, resulting in very weak results. I therefore ask the BiH Council of Ministers to examine the effectiveness of the work so far and the justification for the continued existence of the following BiH institutions: 1. Higher education and quality assurance agencies and 2. The Commission for concessions. After seeing the situation in those institutions, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to propose appropriate measures. Reason: As far as the Agency is concerned... a little while ago in my question and about the engagement of that kind of money in the work so far, and a few more, in addition to a few more facts. The waste management of this agency is also reflected in the irresponsible availability of public money beyond any measure and without a sense of economic state in which a large number of citizens of this country live. As an example of this wasteland, the Agency’s rolling stock includes a luxury car by a director whose value exceeds 100,000 marks. Also, about 100,000 institutions have invested in telephone infrastructures in that rented facility, which serves only 18 employees. Agency bodies (which are according to the law, but we too have responsibility for this situation as it is) are examples of irrational spending of budget money. The Agency's board of directors numbers 10 members, appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, three members in a row of all three peoples, one in a row of others... and the compensation for the Management Board 5,800 marks a month, or 69,6 means close to 70,000 marks a year. The agency has a director and two deputies. It's important to point out that from the beginning... 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5582	Time for a question and initiative...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5583	So I have a question, I have an initiative, it's times two.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5584	Yeah, but in three minutes. I've let you go for more than a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5585	Here I am at the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5586	I'm asking you to finish in a few seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5587	So, I think that's interesting and that Parliament should stand behind this initiative, not that you're denying me a deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5588	I'm sorry, I'm not denying you a deadline, there's a Rules of Procedure that we're working on.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5589	Twice, I have a deadline to ask, I have a deadline for the initiative. And the second is the Commission for concessions which has also not issued any concession since the start-up point, which is a budget user who spends more than a million marks a year. So I ask that the Council of Ministers analyse the work of these two institutions and propose solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5590	I will ask all other MPs not to read business provisions in front of each session of the House of Representatives, so three minutes are scheduled for questions and initiatives and please do not give any additional warning, as they say, respect that time. Zijad Jagodić has a word. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5591	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chairing, fellow Members and fellow Members as well as guests, I welcome you all. In accordance with Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ask the authorities to answer the following questions: '1. What it does or intends to do is to take over the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH in the coming period, and in accordance with Article 2. BiH Railways Act, given the extremely complex situation, both in the RS Railways and in the Federation of BiH Railways? 2. How and how does the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport intend to stabilise the extremely difficult air traffic situation, and above all at airports: Tuzla, Mostar and Banja Luka? 3. What about the law on emigration and activities in this respect, given the vast and untapped possibilities of that part of BiH's citizens? I'm referring to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. 4. What do the competent institutions intend to do with non-applicable certificates, i.e. vouchers considered a debt of the state to the citizens? That's what I'm telling the government of the entity. And the fifth question, last question: 5. What about the lustration law, since it is also one of our obligations in the accession process." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5592	The word has Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5593	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers and guests, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH: 'I am interested in the reasons of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH to state in the Annual Report 2010 on several occasions in this report regarding the judicial structure and judicial institutions in RS: Banja Luka County, Doboj County, Bijeljina County, the district of eastern Sarajevo, Trebinje County?' I would like to warn you that this does not correspond to the legal, constitutional structure of the judicial institutions in the RS. Therefore, there are district courts in Banja Luka, as well as the County Commercial Court in Banja Luka and basic courts, so the main courts in the RS area. There is a district court in Doboj, also the County Commercial Court, also in Bijeljina, in the same way established judicial institutions 12 in eastern Sarajevo and Trebinj. I can't believe this serious institution on several of its tables is repeating that they're environments. What are the reasons that the district is listed, since in RS, therefore, there is no regional way of organising which would classify judicial institutions in the districts, but in the way I said before? And because of this way of making a serious report, which we today have to consider, who uses such improper names? Since it's a judicial institution, I think it's an inadmissible failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5594	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5595	Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is known that the problem of exports is extremely difficult, especially in the low-accumulated branch when it comes to textiles and skins. People are faced with a mass of problems, and in particular an additional problem makes them secure guarantees from commercial banks on contracts, which make for them significant funds, so that those exporters who have over 5, 6, and up to 10 million single out extremely large funds that give as a guarantee that they will implement the goods. My question is to the BiH Council of Ministers: "What will the Council of Ministers do to improve the operating conditions of export companies that give considerable funds to commercial banks for obtaining guarantees on contracted export contracts?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5596	The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5597	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for Minister Bariš Čolak, and it has something to do with media speculation about the legal status of General Divjak. The question is, in fact, did the request for the extradition of Mr. Divjak to the Austrian authorities disrupt or endanger his legal status? And I insist, of course, on the written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5598	The word has Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5599	Thank you. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the council, all the distinguished guests. I have one question to ask the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH: 'By writing newspapers and information from the electronic media in BiH, the public and us MPs, we are informed that Chief Prosecutor Milorad Barašin has been suspended. We are also informed that a high-ranking official of one of the security agencies is suspected of serious crimes in the past war." The question to both institutions is: "Is the suspension of the chief prosecutor involved in illegal listening to the chief prosecutor and does this have anything to do with the investigation that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has led against a senior security agency official?" The second question: "What is the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council intending to do to rapidly stabilise the situation in the BiH Prosecutor's Office because of the fact that the chief prosecutor has been suspended?" And the third question: 'Will any procedure be initiated, if it is true that the chief state prosecutor is illegally tapped and that this has to do with the investigation of a high-ranking security agency official?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5600	The word is Salko Soković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5601	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers: 'In light of the knowledge, members of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board have a fee for their work on the Management Board around 3.700,00 KM. I ask whether it is true and ask for a decision to be delivered to me which determines the compensation to the members of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5602	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5603	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I have three parliamentary questions. 14 First of them I refer to the BiH Council of Ministers: 'I am interested in what is the situation in BiH when it comes to border crossings, how many are presently there, and what is being done or done at the opening of new ones, especially at the border with the Republic of Croatia, and what treatment will these border crossings have, since the Republic of Croatia will become a full member of the EU very soon?' I would like to ask the second question to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: 'What has the Ministry done in its jurisdiction with the aim of ending the process of returning and enabling the return of the returnees of Serbian nationality to the UN-San canton, especially in the municipalities of Bosnian Petrovac and the Sanski Most? I wonder, therefore, what projects are current in that sense?' For the same Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees: 'How long it came with the achievement of the strategic objectives of the Revised BiH Strategy for the Implementation of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Agreement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5604	And last reported, within this point, Milorad Živković, the first deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5605	Thank you. My koleginica Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance: 'In which banks are held budget funds and what are the interest on these funds on an annual basis?' It is not a secret in BiH that we have a budget-to- budget spilling of about 60 million each year. It is no secret that these same funds will remain neutral for this year, and they are constantly being subdued as funds held for new institutions or for the employment of new workers. 60 million dollars when you're holding in one bank, imagine what the interest funds you can get for the funds you know won't be spent. And so for the last four years. Please note: where are these funds held, what are the interest of these funds or, if they are not held, why are they not held and why are no money taken for such funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5606	I'm closing the second item of the agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: 15 Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Wine of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs shall be 13. Seven. In 2011, she submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the report. The House College set 22 at its 10th session as the deadline for the delivery of the report. Seven. 2011 The report was submitted by the Commission to 22. Seven. In 2011, with 27 amendments adopted that become an integral part of the law. Milorad Živković, in accordance with Rule 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure, again defends in the plenary phase one amendment, which reads: 'Amendman I. A new position (9) is added in article 68, which reads: The BiH institutions carry part of the costs of analysis from 40% to 60% of the authorised institution or institute certified for chemical analysis of wine in order to encourage greater control of wine on the market.' I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. The word has Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5608	Just one intervention before the debate begins. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, therefore, have one correction from the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, so, for the record, I would like to inform the House that this amendment applies to Amendment II. The words 'in Croatian' are deleted behind the word'subregion'. This is where the explanation was given. So this corrects the technical error by replacing the words'rejon' with'subregion' in all languages in official use in BiH. This correction is due to the completeness of the legislative proposal itself, because there have been a lot of amendments, so just to get it into the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5609	I would like to thank the Chairman of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Is anyone answering for a debate within this agenda? I understand there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mineral Cares, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Second Reading) 16 At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs 13. Seven. In 2011, she submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the report. The House College set 22 at its 10th session as the deadline for the delivery of the report. Seven. 2011 The report was submitted by the Commission to 22. Seven. 2011 I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5612	Thank you, Chairman. However, although the debate is over, I would like to inform you of a meeting that has been made in accordance with the conclusion. After a work-consultative meeting with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and working on the conclusion of this home from last session, in order to find a compromise solution before today's statement on the law itself as a whole, as well as on my amendments, we concluded the following. The BiH Ministry of Justice will draw up and submit to the BiH Council of Ministers a proposal for a framework law on the establishment of a joint register of NGOs in BiH, with the aim of introducing more order in the work of NGOs, their establishment and registration and prevention of all potential and illegal activities that could arise as a result of such extra-legislative action. 17 So this is one segment of what we have discussed here in Parliament: introducing more order in registering NGOs in BiH. The second segment of what we have discussed here is the giving of legitimacy to NGOs registered at the level of BiH, i.e. associations and foundations on which this conclusion has arisen: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with carrying out an audit of the consent so far issued for the use of BiH's name in the name of organisations, associations and foundations, and so on, from 2004 to today. The Council of Ministers will submit a report to the House of Representatives within 90 days of the adoption of this conclusion." I am withdrawing all the amendments I have proposed here and the Council of Ministers has committed to proposing this law, and we are proposing this conclusion to this House that I have just read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5613	I remind all of us once again that the debate on this agenda item has been concluded and today we only vote on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Here's the word for it, however, and so does Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5614	I mean, if that's the case, I'll give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5615	Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs shall be 13. Seven. In 2011, she submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the report. The House College set 22 at its 10th session as the deadline for the delivery of the report. Seven. 2011 The report was submitted by the Commission to 22. Seven. In 2011, with an amendment adopted that becomes an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Mato Franjičević answered the words. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5617	... of this law, amendments and additions, means its entry into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger" and then the text goes, and it applies from 1. 1. 2011 It is probably a technical error, because if it were not, it would also not have been necessary to provide additional funds for the implementation of this law. If it would have been applied since 1.1 this year, of course additional resources would have to be provided.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5618	I remind you once again that when it comes to the laws in the second reading, we try to respect Article 119. Rules of Procedure. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding a debate on the sixth item of the agenda. We're going to the seventh point, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 5th session of the House, held on 14. Seven. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The report was submitted by the relevant Constitutional Legal Commission on 25 May 2016. Seven. In 2011, with the adoption of two amendments that become an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. The first to speak was Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5620	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so we had amendments from fellow Members of Živković, two amendments. The amendments have been adopted. The law, following the revision of the Constitutional Commission, some technical corrections regarding the state of the text when these amendments are adopted, I think it would be acceptable for the Proposer himself, right, these amendments. And we suggest that this law be adopted like this with this text as adopted on the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5621	Thank you. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding a debate on the seventh item of the agenda. 19 We move to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The Constitutional Commission is 7. Seven. In 2011, she held a public debate. The report was delivered by 25. Seven. In 2011, with the adoption of three amendments that become an integral part of the law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. The word was received by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5623	The bill's proposal is under public debate, not because of the law itself, but because of the problem of protecting personal data that is not affirmed in BiH in the right way that it should be affirmed. We hope the public debate has contributed to that affirmation. The amendments were offered... by the participants in the public debate, and later adopted by the Agency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Constitutional Commission, and I propose on behalf of the Commission that this amendment be adopted and, behold, I do not propose any conclusion, but this is a problem that we should discuss here in Parliament at least once in six months in order for the problem of data protection to be affirmed, because personal data are used by citizens and where we should not be used and misused. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5624	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission The BiH Council of Ministers sent the bill to parliamentary procedure 26. Ten. In 2010, with a request to consider the urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. At the 5th session of the House, held on 14. Seven. In 2011, an urgent and shortened procedure was not accepted, so that the draft law is considered in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. 20 The Constitutional Commission is 22. Seven. In 2011, she delivered Opinion and accepted the constitutional basis, but did not accept the principles of the bill. Today, therefore, we are discussing a negative opinion by the Commission. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The word was received by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5626	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so the Constitutional Commission voted as it voted and filed a negative report. I, as chairman of the Commission, present this, of course, the House will declare it as it believes it should be declared. And I will now, as a representative in this House, say that the opinion of the Constitutional Commission should not be accepted and that this should be put back in the procedure before the Constitutional Commission. It is a matter of principle regarding the classification of individual institutions in one or that branch of government in BiH. It's about the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Auditor General's Office, the Communications Regulatory Agency and the Board of Appeals. These are institutions that function back 10 years under the specific laws on which they are founded. A year, a year and a half ago, a law on ministries was adopted here in the parliamentary procedure where these institutions are located in the BiH executive system. I think it was a mistake back then and we all realized it was a mistake. The constitutional commission in the earlier term said it was a mistake and the BiH Council of Ministers fixed it and offered us one text of the bill that allowed the status of these institutions as they must have. They cannot be part of the executive system and cannot be in the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration and should be excluded from that law. There are several reasons why this is so, I'm talking about them if I don't have to talk about them, but I think it would be very good to get this back to the Constitutional Commission and then adopt this law and provide these institutions with the independent status they need in their nature and definition that they have. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5627	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5628	... ordered the BiH Council of Ministers to submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys and other administration bodies, by removing the Office for Audit from the law in question. And a dot. However, afterwards from the Parliamentary Assembly, someone has initiated the opportunity to take advantage of the other two institutions, including the RAC and the Office for the Review of Appeals. 21 Why do I think this proposal should not be supported, regardless of the reasons that stand, stated by Mr Džaferović? First, I would like to say that the Regulatory Agency for Communications, which has been working in the technical mandate since 2007, has indeed been independent and has so far shown how independent it is of this Parliament and how independent of BiH it is of which it works. In the previous term, we were faced with a fierce campaign of the international community, individual foreign ambassadors who have made such an attempt to install the existing director and to remain an existing council, so without any diplomatic correctness, diplomatic behaviour, which would be adapted to those people coming from such high circles. So they were just talking about the need for this institution to be independent, and everything they did to make it depend on them right now. I was afraid... to do what's here for the Council of Ministers, I think that this institution we can't, we certainly can't get out, Parliament can't handle it, it can't change the law, it can't do anything, we just have to let go so much that it can only do what it wants. So I'm not for this institution. As far as the Board of Appeals is concerned, it is one of the institutions in charge of public procurement procedures. Today we have a report on the work of the office. There are a lot of problems in public procurement processes. There's a lot of problems between the Agency and the Office. And I don't think there's any point in doing this before getting rid of it and doing it in such a way that the co-operation of two key institutions for the whole public procurement process is at the level that it requires, so I don't think this law should be adopted and, if something should be done, the Office for Auditing BiH institutions should be drawn up because it really doesn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5629	The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5630	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to join this position, Mrs. Majkić. Namely, what's this about? This is about issues that have a significant tendency, so the constant multiplication of agencies at the level of joint institutions. So there are differentiations within the state administration's authority and there are multiple agencies, various agencies. There are different types of agencies, we don't even know what the agencies are yet. These are some quasiagents, not agencies in terms of the Western European system. But the essential question is that it should end up multiplying the number of agencies that do not have a need, as the current ministerial structure, the executive power, can carry out certain tasks. Of course, certain tasks should be separated from the executive authority, but the Office for the Review of Appeals, I doubt whether it should separate it from the executive authorities, i.e., of course, that the commission, or people working on complaints, should be appointed to this parliament, not the Council of Ministers of BiH. Because in that case, you'd have a touch point with the executive. The Office of the Auditor-General, of course, needs to be separated, but it is necessary to establish joint controls of the Auditor-General. No institution in the democratic rule of law can be out of control. There is no institution. I think we have easily accepted the models of some Western European countries, and import models have not proved to be good anywhere, that they should adapt to domestic opportunities. 22 We have our tradition, both legal and other, and in this respect we should see that there are some parameters when new institutions are formed. Therefore, I think that the public administration at the level of state institutions is quite poorly arranged and that there is a need for more radical reform and that state institutions, i.e. public administration at the level of state institutions, are lagging behind some of the reform processes that take place in entities. I'm in my own time, it seems to me at last session, talking about a professional exam that presents a serious problem. I have looked at a manual that is below each level, beyond all manuals in the former Yugoslavia, and in this respect, of course, it should... the administration is very important, very important, that I do not say that public administration will come to the agenda for European integration. Without the root reform of the public administration, there will be no European integration. And in that sense, I mean, I've been thinking that we should even form special commissions that would work on this plan, and this assembly of some committees about reforming the administration, and creating these new institutions, or expressing the need to create new institutions. In addition, when new institutions are created, regardless of whether they are singled out from other institutions, ministries, etc., each law must contain a financial basis for financing those institutions. We cannot allow the establishment of institutions..., therefore in the future, without a financial basis, because almost all parliaments in the world are doing so. If you are passing a new law, this law must have a financial basis, because there is a buildup that becomes uncontrollable and only damages the efficiency and functioning of the legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5631	The replica was reported by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5632	The object of this law is to delete certain provisions of the BiH Ministry Act and other BiH administration bodies, with the aim of excluding these three institutions from the state administration system and to ensure their position in accordance with these laws. It is not possible to justify the survival or survival of these institutions in this law by discussing their work, these are two completely different things, and even by discussing whether we need some institutions or not. I think it's a replacement argument and it's a completely invalid argument to discuss this subject. And I got up to replicate it. Whoever reads this law, who reads the basic laws, who reads the world and European standards on which the work of these institutions is based, will see that this law proposes the position of these institutions as provided for by world standards when it comes to the revision of financial operations and when it comes to the work of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and other institutions listed here in the Bill. The modern democratic world, I thought I didn't have to talk about this, can't stand to be completely and strictly divided into legislative, executive and judicial. Simply, life imposes some solutions that must exist and institutions as independent regulators that will not be part of any of these authorities, especially when it comes to the protection of human rights, here I mean the Ombudsman institution, when it comes to regulation of certain important things such as electronic communication, when it comes to spending money, control of 23 financial operations, etc. It's just like that in Europe, these are European standards and these are world standards. And that's why I think we should return a negative report from the Constitutional Commission and accept this law on this committee. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5633	Dušanka Majkić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5634	My kolega Džaferović, if you had just said what you said at the time we adopted this bill, I would have congratulated you and told you how zealous you are and how worried you are about all this. We passed that law. And today we want to change it. The initiative to amend him came from the Office of Audit. And everyone agreed to do it. And then there were calls from this house to the Communications Regulatory Agency to take advantage of the opportunity to go through the audit office as well. Maybe from this list and the Board of Appeals, it's the only one and the Office of Audit that makes sense. For the Regulatory Agency for Communications, regardless of all the arguments you are making, until the organisation of the institution is completed, until her work in the technical mandate is completed, however much you do not think her work should be tied to what we are doing today, her work should be linked accordingly. She doesn't respect this country or this parliament today. By getting out of this place where he's sitting right now, imagine what would have happened then. So I don't think this should be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5635	The replica was reported by Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5636	I'd like to say two or three more sentences. We all know that Slovenia is one of the most successful countries in transition. Slovenia built its legal system to adapt it to its needs. Of course she took all European standards, but she adapted some important issues in the system to her needs, and in privatisation, etc., which is why the country is successful in these areas. Please, let me say again, there is no institution in the world that is not controlled by anyone. Here I was talking about the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is a major problem for this country, not to mention the quality of judges, prosecutors, etc. Don't think I'm part of, I don't know, some campaigns against courts, but seriously and rationally I'm thinking about how to organize a judiciary that would suit the rule of law. It's a similar situation with some agencies. They must be controlled. Is that control in Parliament's hands? It's mostly in the hands of parliament. Please see in Germany how judges are elected, in one serious state. Is he going out of parliament? Is the oath taking place in front of a colleague, I don't know, not to be resented, from the province of some down, etc., etc. It is, in one hand, for me the humiliation of judges like both humiliation and other structures of university professors, we will come to this report that follows. 24 Therefore, each institution must be controlled. It's not out of the legal system. There must be legal mechanisms to control each institution. There can't be enclaves in the system to do whatever it wants, it doesn't exist. Although countries in transition, especially in this area in BiH, have erupted all the elements of parliament to control such institutions, fearing the influence of politics, and the impact of politics is far greater than it is through parliament. Because the political parties have a lot of influence, you'll see it at the RTV BiH, when we discuss it. If no legal control mechanisms have been established, legal mechanisms for the appointment of these people have been established. So there's a special appointment procedure all in order...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5637	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5638	...to reach the highest quality personnel, not relying on people but on procedures and rules. It's a tendency of modern law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5639	Thank you. The next one came from Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5640	Come on, guys, let's listen to what's said and watch what happens. Don't answer to things that haven't been said, because there's no need for that. Of course there is control, there is control of parliament, and that is the thread that is established between these institutions and parliament. And today we have the Ombudsman's report here in front of Parliament as a result of this, the Public Service as a result of this, the Office for Audition as a result. So there's Parliament control. Here's the thing, which would be people's way of saying, if this were excluded from the executive power, if the executive government had no control over it, and about that, there was no one talking about the lack of control. And the other thing, colleagues, I voted against the law that involved this, you well, in fact, you don't know it, you were in the House of Peoples or you might have heard it, but now you have a chance to know it and I kept saying it like this. The Constitutional Commission also made the same arguments and recommended that the BiH Council of Ministers amend the law, both in relation to the Office of the Auditor-General, as well as with regard to the Regulatory Agency for Communication. There are two special decisions of the Constitutional Legal Commission received by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5641	Beriz Belkić reported on the discussion. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5642	It is acceptable for me to adopt this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration which, of course, implies that I will be against the negative opinion of our competent commission. I have seen this as simple as the separation of the organisational, or functional separation of three institutions, in accordance with world and European practices due to the specificities of the businesses they carry out. I simply didn't experience them coming out of the system completely, getting them out of the control system, which is certainly possible through the report, and through appointments, and funding, etc. So you absolutely don't get into the situation that you're out of complete control. Of course, sometimes there is a dissatisfaction that cannot directly affect the work of these institutions, some personal solutions, but sometimes it is good that we have no influence. As for Mr Kunić's discussion as well, I fully agree that root reform of the administration, i.e. public administration, of the state administration, is necessary. We have been trying for several years to reform the public administration, a funded project, we also have an office, we have a resolution of this home that supports the overall public administration reform in BiH. Unfortunately, we have no political will to end this business. So, Mr. Kunić, I am absolutely up for it and we need to follow up on those of our declaration here, or those of our recommendations to speed up this process in order to reach competent and capacitated state administrations. But here I am, not going out of the agenda, so I will be against the Commission's opinion for the reasons I referred to earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5643	Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers sent the bill to parliamentary procedure 2. 12. 2010 The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 17. Six. 2011 The responsible Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics has delivered Opinion 25. Seven. 2011 I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Nermina Ćemalović called for the word. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5645	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome you and everyone present. In line with the legal obligation and the 2010 Work Programme, the Anti-doping Control Agency in BiH drafted a bill on preventing doping in sports in BiH, adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers in September 2010 and referred to the parliamentary procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The aim of the law is to regulate this area legally, and based on the International Convention against Doping in Sports, which BiH ratified in 2008, when the Law on Sports in BiH was passed, and on the basis of the World Anti-doping Code. The problem of doping, as the greatest evil of modern sport, is being debated more and more and we have witnessed frequent scandals in top sports. According to the World Anti-doping Code, the definition of doping was given, which was set out in the Bill's Proposal in Part Four, which treats infringement of the anti-doping rules, in particular, in Article 8. I believe that the text in Article 8 should be in the second part of the bill that treats definitions, or Article 2. Article 2 should read as follows: 'Doping is considered', because there is no definition of doping anywhere here, doping is considered: a) the presence of banned substances or its metabolites or markers in the sample of athletes.' There is one item missing here, and that is, according to the World Antidoping Code, which we respect, to be written: 'in a sample of the urine or the blood of the athletes'. I don't know if there's anyone present here from the Council of Ministers about this member so maybe we can discuss this. Okay, this is first reading, okay. 'b) Using or trying to use forbiddens', here is mentioned, 'funds.' You know, it happens here to use two concepts:'substance and resources'. My suggestion is that, according to the Antidoping Code, the definition should say'substance' and that, anywhere it says'substances','substances' means 'using or trying to use banned substances or banned methods' should be added. It says here: 'c) rejection or failure to give samples without a convincing explanation.' According to the Antidoping Code, it says'refuse or non-accession to give samples without justification'. It means "no excuse, no convincing explanation, after the athlete takes notice in accordance", this rest goes the same way. Now this right over here that says c) that would be d. That's okay. Then e), f. In g) writes here: 'unauthorized sales, transport, dispatch, delivery or distribution of prohibited means to the athlete', etc. It should say here: 'unlawful shops of prohibited substances or methods of athletes or attempts at such behaviour, either directly or through the middle of a third party.' And the last sentence mentioning 'giveing and trying to give to a athlete any prohibited substance or banned method'. 27 It should be written here to delete this 'any' and 'no' because it is constantly mentioned 'no', it should say 'giveing and trying to give to an athlete forbidden substances and methods'. And in the last sentence, to add 'or another kind of complicity which includes a violation of the anti-doping rules or attempted violation'. It is very important to specify all of these elements of doping because the abovementioned behaviours in the cases of predicting criminal or criminal liability for doping in most of the legislation constitute the essence of an offence, i.e. a criminal offence. Namely, the legal description of the criminal or criminal act of doping in most cases only uses the word ‘doping’ or the word ‘prohibited assets’ or ‘substance’ or ‘proceeds’. So it's a blank disposition, which means we have to use the definition of doping listed in sports law, as well as a list of banned substances and methods. Next, I have another suggestion about Article 10, where it says "a list of prohibited funds published" -- it should just write "a list of banned substances and methods". As for Part XX, i.e. infringement provisions, article 61, which mentions fines for legal persons and 62 for fines of natural persons, I believe that they should be more severe. So, in Article 61, fines should be greater: for legal persons, 10,000 to 15,000 KM; and in Article 62, where natural persons are mentioned: fines 5,000 to 10,000 KM. Two main arguments regarding fines and a ban on doping are the danger to the health of athletes who take such substances and the injustice of the resulting fraud. In principle, we need this law and the SDP will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5646	I remind my distinguished colleague Ćemalović that in case this goes through in the first reading, you have the opportunity to translate this discussion into amendments as well. Dušanka Majkić answered for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5647	Thank you very much. I'd like to say a few words about only part XVII. It's called "Organs of the Agency." So, here, we see again one law that implies behind it the formation of new agencies, it's the Antidoping Committee and the Exclusion Committee for therapeutic purposes. The Anti-doping Committee has seven members, etc., so we have a re-enactment of an agency. So, the attitude of us from the RS is that it can no longer be established in this way at any moment by one new agency. So, we have nothing against the law, but this same thing can be organised at the Ministry of Civil Affairs and that we have it, at least at a time until that institution gets there, so if it turns out it's too tight in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, then we can talk about it becoming an agency. So unless the amendments to the law put her physically, not as an administrative organisation of 28 within the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but as an integral sector or an organisational part of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5648	I'm closing the debate on the 10th agenda. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the bill in procedure 19. Ten. 2010. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 30. Six. 2011 The relevant Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered its opinion on 25.7.2011 and it is negative. I'm opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Commission. The discussion was answered by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5650	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to support the Commission's opinion, therefore negatively the Commission's opinion, and not adopt this law in this way. There are several reasons why we should do this. I'm not a member of that committee, but I have my reasons. First of all, if a draft law on amendments to the Law on Citizenship in the Parliamentary Procedure comes, then it would be okay for the BiH Council of Ministers to take care of a member of the 17th existing Law on Citizenship. 1. 1. In 2013, a large number of BiH citizens, who have been placed in a position to take citizenship from other countries, will be in a position to lose their citizenship of BiH, because BiH to date, and I don't know if it will reach 1. 1. In 2013, bilateral agreements were not concluded with these countries. It is a law that is contrary, I am deeply convinced, the BiH Constitution, because the BiH Constitution protects primarily the primary citizenship of BiH. And if any sanctions under the Law on Citizenship should be taken in such situations, then this could only apply to newly taken citizenship, not to the nationality of the basic or basic citizenship of BiH that was acquired by natural means, by birth or by blood connection. Our law went one step further in relation to the Constitution, and then it imposed sanctions on this nationality that is achieved by natural means. It's something that's wrong. If we expected anything in the 29 parliamentary procedure, considering several attempts at the previous assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, then it is up to the proposal to amend and supplement the amendments to Article 17. Unfortunately, we did not get this from our Council of Ministers, but we get one law which, when looking at the provision of Article 6 referred to in Article 12 of the original text of the law, can, with a high degree of probability and truth, be concluded that the objective of the set of these standards contained in the text referred to in Article 38 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH is actually to cement the existing situation in BiH, so that persons who are forced to take citizenship from other states to resolve their status in Article 12 says 'that the person whose nationality BiH is to acquire or maintain citizenship of another country has ceased to give up, by way of lay down or by force of the law, to re-applicate citizenship if he meets the conditions laid down in Article 9 and provided that he has a permanent stay or temporary stay, at least two years in BiH'. The existing law does not foresee this condition. Not only does it not address the issue of members of the 17th and the people who are being struck by that member, but it increases the situation when it comes to the position of those people. On the other hand, Article 14, which is referred to Article 38, speaks of citizens of BiH who changed their residences and residences after 6 April '92. And according to these people, standards are being established to facilitate the status of BiH's citizenship arrangement. These two things, which are mutually opposed, led me to this conclusion that I said. I said, with a high degree of probability, I can conclude something like that and therefore I suggest that we do not adopt this law, and we will not adopt it then if we support a negative position of the Joint Committee on Human Rights and ask the Council of Ministers to finally resolve this issue in the right way, first and foremost Article 17. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5651	I'm closing the hearing on the 11th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5652	Assistant Minister of Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5653	Assistant Minister of Civil Affairs Milan Zjajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear dom, I have no intention of defending a bill that is in the process because it seems obvious to me that he will not get support. However, I would take the right or freedom here to – with the conclusion that BiH is required to amend the Law on Citizenship and that it must do so in order to implement certain conventions, whose application is mandatory in BiH and for practical reasons – I add that BiH must agree the Law on Citizenship with the Law on the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. And, with that in mind, I would suggest that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly form an inter-resor working group that would deal with this issue, which would be attended by representatives of the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples, the Minister of Civil Affairs, and that the working group in its work would have the opportunity to benefit and service experts, 30 both from the OHR, from the entity, the Brcko District, and to hold public debates and then propose a law with a high degree of consensus or with a consensus to regulate these issues, because this is necessary for BiH. It is a sensitive issue where it is obvious that compromise and understanding are difficult to achieve. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5655	Thank you. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010 (scheduled debate at the 5th session of the House of Representatives held on 14. Seven. 2011) On the basis of Article 20(3) and (4) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, we have received the Annual Report 20. 5. 2011 The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission has been given to 30.6. 2011 The Commission did not take note of the Annual Report. At the 5th session of the House, held on 14.7.2011, the annual report was postponed due to the non-preference. I'm opening a debate on the Annual Report. Please ask the Proposer if he needs to make some introductory remarks? There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić applied for the discussion. (?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5659	There's a need to explain the break. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so last time, of course, Parliament made a decision that we supported that the presence of the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is necessary. And now we feel the presence of the president is necessary. Of course, we respect the representative, and we know that it is commercially possible for the representative to be present, and we do not enter into the competences of the representatives at all at all, but, given the problem that is present in the judiciary, in total, we feel that not only the presence of the President of the High Court and the Prosecutorial Council is necessary, but in the course of the debate we also want to propose a conclusion in which we require his exclusive presence. We think it is necessary to organise later in... both homes on the subject of 'The situation in the BiH judiciary', as it is closely linked to the fight against crime and corruption. And since we know how things are here in BiH, we think this approach makes sense. We therefore ask fellow MPs from other political parties to understand this attitude, above all with the aim of having a broad debate that will result in certain decisions and conclusions. You all know he's started so-called. structural dialogue and a lot of things that are related to the judiciary. We therefore consider our conclusion to be something that can also be acceptable to representatives of other political parties. And here, I've defined the conclusion. He would say 'that for the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in 2010, because of the seriousness of the situation, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is seeking the presence of High Court and Prosecutorial Council President Milorad Novaković to discuss the issue Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2010.' After this debate, we will certainly propose this second conclusion regarding holding a joint session of both Parliament's homes. I think I've made myself clear, I expect support, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5660	Your proposal is therefore to request the presence of the chairman, i.e. the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. He's not here right now, but he's got a representative. Article 20(4)"At the invitation of the Parliamentary Assembly or of another body from the previous position, the president or other authorised representative will directly explain the report at the session and answer the questions of the MPs, or members of the other body. The discussion of the report and the conclusions may provide evaluations, suggestions and proposals that do not dispute the independence of the councils." It should be emphasized here that we have an authorised representative, but we understand your proposal as well. Would you like us to vote to seek the presence of the President of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council? If he's not here, let's postpone this agenda. _________(?) 32... perhaps it would be good for the College, if you could agree to this conclusion, to let us know. If you can... it doesn't matter... The College unanimously decided to request the presence of the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and this issue is being postponed for the next House session. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Citizens' Board of Appeal for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5663	So, as chairman of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, I would like to say that this is the first Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of Citizens, meaning for the period from 1.1.1.2010 to 31.1.2010, and to remind my fellow Members that the Committee on Appeals of Citizens has been established in accordance with the Law on the Independent Supervisory Authorities of the Police Structure of BiH, as the body of the Parliamentary Assembly. This is their first report, their first results. The Commission has analysed this and, as you can see, unanimously accepted the report and proposed these two conclusions of which depend directly on the further work of this institution so that I propose... and I hope this will be accepted as well. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5664	Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2010 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2011 In accordance with Article 7(1)(b) and (e) of the Act on the Independent and Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure, the Supervisory Board delivered the Work Report for 2010 and the Work Plan for 2011. BiH's Joint Defence and Security Commission in charge is 22. Seven. In 2011, it submitted its opinion on the above mentioned materials. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5667	Thank you very much. So we have before us a report by a parliamentary military commissioner for whom we know what his jurisdiction is, and basically this report, which is very extensively working, on page 20, he basically has four pages contained about what is the essence of his work itself. What irritated me, especially when it comes to the work of this Commissioner, which says at the end of the text, and I want to start with that – that despite the difficulties in work, the insufficient number of employees, the room, the special regime of work in the office which is... different from the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, I don't know what it means, the need for my own systematization of office jobs, we were now talking, 34 earlier on about these institutions that come after each other, and then we have no control over their work, so here is this, financial independence, in the framework of regular activities, held meetings with the workers of the Armed Forces, etc. What is the essence of my objections to the work of a military commissioner? So, no one, I think, in this Parliamentary Assembly has any objection to what this institution exists. And no one can say we don't need something like that. A team before reading this material can be seen that the institutions visited by the Commissioner and that we are talking about non-transparentity and illegality in working on non-transparent procedures, challenging the right to national commitment, I think, we have an institution called the Ministry of Defence, the right to... dispute the right to national commitment from highly-ranked officers etc. So, a few things have been located that really can't leave a man indifferent. What explains about this amazing case, the military commissioner in the next sentence, means, after finding out that he has a problem somewhere, the next finding is to justify what the Ministry of Defense did, which means he's saying that he's either going to do it or he's already in the process to solve it. I must say, I've had the opportunity for people from different parts of the Armed Forces to write, dissatisfied with the state they're in, and ask for help to protect them from the parliamentary military commissioner. It's something that's not good. So, I've received several items being conducted by a parliamentary military commissioner and I'd like to inform you of a few things. So Brigadier Gavrić Dušan was transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the operational command because he referred the complaint to the military commissioner for breach of the procedure regarding regular promotion. So I just want to explain that it's a promotion of an officer who hasn't been ranked at all. And when he complained to the military commissioner, he was suspended, or transferred to another post from where he was... it means punishment for speaking to the military commissioner. Second, the translation of soldiers into sub-offices in early 2011. The subject was also led by a military commissioner and a competition that was announced – only the chosen ones were familiar with it. So no one's sanctioned that there's a number of people, they're soldiers by contract, when they turned 35, then only the chosen ones have changed their status. From soldiers under contract, they became officers and, then, they work for the rest of their lives. We know that in this number, the number in the order of the Serb people almost does not exist and we know which has been most promoted on this basis. Major Dr. The gambler Jelisavete where the mobing is established in the workplace, by the commanders, so the most ranked officers – no one has done anything for the case. The case of Mrđa Duško and Colonel Predrag Paninčić, who found out that the helicopters who went to repair in Ukraine were returned with all mistakes, so they were only painted. And because they refused to use those helicopters, which they did not want to sign their rightness—they were punished, not by warning, not by reproof, but by 20% by pay. It's unusual for them to be sanctioned in that way. And the military commissioner could have done it, I think he could've handled it with one phone call, not some more systematic work. So there are too many things that say, warn that the work of a military commissioner would have to be more responsible, that he would have to be more systematic. I know it's interesting to travel around the world, watch 35 of how other countries handled it, that it's interesting to walk, to receive delegations here, I know it's nice, but I don't think it's useful for what's the military commissioner's jurisdiction. That's why I voted against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5668	The discussion was answered by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. [[Common discussion]] I will ask you, indeed, to communicate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5670	Can I do it now? I can, okay. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the chairman of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, Col. Majkić, only at the end of her address to this house according to this agenda point did what was happening on the Commission. All we heard today was that voice 'against', the only voice 'against' in the Commission's session, all the other members didn't have that attitude. Most of the votes, this report is supported by one 'against' vote, which is the vote of the chairman of the Commission. Therefore, the Defence and Security Commission adopted this report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. This is the Commission's conclusion, and everyone has the right, both within the Commission and within this House, to make their views and views known. I will talk about the Report in a way to say that I am in line with those who believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly made the right move when it included the existence of these institutions in its legal system and in the BiH institutions system, and here we agree: therefore, a parliamentary military commissioner or a person who is obliged to protect the human rights of members of the Armed Forces, to care for their protection is something that needs the BiH system and should not be forgotten that this is the first parliamentary military commissioner who has been tasked with doing all that work on the establishment of an institution after the law was passed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. When we look at today what this institution looks like, and even through this report, then we can say, in my opinion, that the parliamentary military commissioner has fulfilled the key obligation that was before him so far, which is to form this institution and that it is rightly positioned in the Bosnian legal system. The second thing, when you look at the Report, you will see that the report is dealing with some things problematicly, by spotting phenomena, and you will see that some things are done just to the end specifically, given the importance of those things that have appeared before it, as a military commissioner, so you will see that a whole system is being watched and that there are several phenomena that he, as a military commissioner, in his report indicates. For me, it is, in fact, the most important thing that speaks of the fact that it is justified that this institution exists and that the parliamentary military commissioner, who is now in office, has done the job in the right way. 36 For me, therefore, the basic mission of a parliamentary military commissioner has been fulfilled and this report reflects the real state of the institution. There will always be problems and always can be better. We have heard these objections which are highlighted here today and have received answers at the Commission's session on these objections. Many of these things that have been found by the parliamentary military commissioner at the Commission's session have been denied, it has been said that these things do not stand, and I hope that we will hear it here today at the House's session. And the third thing I want to say, which I was saying at the Commission's session, is that the parliamentary military commissioner managed to show this institution in the best possible light, not only in BiH but also in the region. This is one of the institutions that can serve as an example to the entire region. In this context, a regional conference was held here and that is one special thing for me, which I, as the third, pointed out in this report on the work of a parliamentary military commissioner. I want to encourage him to continue to do his job, to be a uncompromising human rights fighter for members of the Armed Forces of BiH, and I call on the House to accept both the report and, of course, the Commission's positive opinion on the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5671	Thank you. The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5672	I apologize before that, Mr. Chairman, both to you and the members of this party, so to speak, I just applied before, so I got wrong, so I wanted to say that I was a colleague before, but it doesn't matter. So here's what I'm gonna do. The thing is somewhere in the middle of what Mrs. Majkić was talking about and what Mr. Džaferović was talking about. So, not entering the number of votes 'yes', 'against', it is seen from the report, not entering and not explaining the institution of the military commissioner, I believe that the people in this Parliament know it, it is my opinion that the report has shown that the institution is functioning and that it meets what it is founded for. It is true that these are the reasons that Mrs. Majkić is talking about, systematization, space, funding, etc., but this is a general phenomenon for all institutions, you will see, especially those that are just newly established, we simply have practice, we pass the law as a legal basis for the establishment of the institution, and simply no one cares about these institutions anymore, but is let go, select leadership and let people get along in some way. So, we must, in practice, as well as the legislative authority, in particular the Council of Ministers of BiH, monitor and support the establishment of these new institutions that, of course, follow one another, so that otherwise, Ms. Majkić says: the institutions follow one another. Well, of course, how they're going to go after each other, surely, they're going to establish themselves. Therefore, I think that this report by the Ombudsman institution is acceptable and needs it, in my opinion, when we also discuss the 2010 Ombudsman's report, I will propose some things, a set of data and initiatives that could be the basis for action and by the Council of Ministers of BiH and this Parliament. 37 So I absolutely support this report and I appreciate that this institution has justified its establishment.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5673	Drago Kalabić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5674	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, even though I didn't expect this report to occupy our attention to this extent, it's good to focus on every report and all possible facts to be made. And I'm trying to look back at a few of the findings that have been made about what's going on in the area of defense in the Armed Forces, and I have a feeling that there's an atmosphere being created, since there's not a single member of the Council of Ministers, and my request is: can we get information on where the members of the Council of Ministers are today? So, can we, at this point, meet the members of the Council of Ministers? We set this day for a parliamentary debate precisely because of the Council of Ministers' meetings, because they have Thursday that's the only day we said we couldn't, we said... that it would be Wednesday. On the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, we don't choose this man, only we ask that he be present when it comes to his report, so we can't affect his obligations, there may even be some obstacles, but we insist he be here when the reports are being made. And on the members of the Council of Ministers, I suppose, is it, to this extent, irresponsibility towards this Parliament, whether the situation to this extent has gone to hell that we have a situation that neither one deigns to justify nor to justify, nor that we know, and I would like to know what state obligations the members of the Council of Ministers are today in BiH that they are prevented from attending Parliament meetings, which are not every day and... we are suffering criticism that we are very rarely sitting, and here we are, and rarely. That's what I'm saying because here just now, the unfortunate Boško is here, and for all the problems of this country, it's Boško Šiljegović's fault. I don't defend at all, I don't know what it's about. So, the charges made by her colleague, Majkić, are very difficult. So someone moved, I know the military commissioner isn't moving, and apparently the man's been transferred. I know I haven't heard that the military commissioner has been mobbing in the Armed Forces, but it looks like someone's doing it. I wish the defence minister was too when his military commissioner from the area submitted a report, so he could say something about it. If the mobbing, the transfer and the rest were conducted by a military commissioner, let us now judge him by a brief procedure. I mean, that's what it's all about, not getting in at all, not defending the position here, but wanting to hear from someone, and now there's no address, I don't have the address now, if he could stop and if he did, that's what we'll discuss when we're deciding on... whether he could do more on it. But I didn't understand that he was the one making the mobbing. And apparently there are transfers in the Armed Forces because someone doesn't like them, who's moving. If he was making a parliamentary commissioner that he... but even today can be, in some way, responsible for not contributing to the transfer, but whoever made the transfer illegally is protected as a white bear, if the transfer was made, it is protected. In the Armed Forces, BiH is commanded by low-class NATO officers and against them, no one must say the letters because they are afraid of anyone. No action in the Armed Forces of BiH is resolved without the knowledge of NATO, and all mouths are tied, for God Bog anyone should say anything against, but let Boško hang, or some Boško, I don't know either. So we're going critical on the military commissioner's report, but I've been trying to put it in plain and secure. And those protected in 38 BiH, not a word of them, about a defence minister who's not there, who's supposed to say about these qualifications, not related to a military commissioner, whether they're in the Armed Forces, who's doing it or whether it's happening. And then we'll discuss whether the military commissioner could have done more to prevent it, that I didn't know in any way. And not to talk about other things. Because here – yes, these actions can happen – we will not sanction them or not against them, because it is not, it may not be politically correct or someone personally politically smart that we do not treat authority and greatness in such a way, but we will... So, unrelated completely to this report, I've reported to you irritated by the fact that no member of the Council of Ministers is missing when they're in their fields. A short time ago, we had an area very important from the issue of justice where the minister of justice, who is a participant and runs this story Mr. Bojić spoke of, did not know that we would postpone this point, I guess it should have been today. Well, here, we have a defense, so we have, I don't know, and we come into a situation that obviously those who come here have to and drink to all the rest of our kind, I don't know what I'd call, relationship, or dissatisfaction, or anything else. That's why I called. These are important things that we need to bring into line, and if we're going to ask for responsibility to look for her for such heavy accusations, that we're looking for her in one correct way, in a way that we're going to treat everyone equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5675	I would like to remind, in short, that according to my information, this report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner is very detailedly discussed and at the session of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security and I remind you, here it seems to me that some colleagues have spoken of it, this report has been adopted with seven votes 'yes' and only one 'against' vote. There were two abstentions. However, it is evident that the vast majority of the members of the commission supported the report. The main goal of setting up the military commissioner is, above all, to increase confidence in the military sector by creating greater transparency in the entire administrative process conducted by the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. I must say that before considering this item of the agenda, I had a longer meeting with Parliament's military commissioner, Mr Šiljegović, along with his team and that I had the opportunity to know that they were really trying to carry out their duties as professionally as possible. I would also like to encourage the parliamentary military commissioner to continue working in accordance with the Parliamentary Military Commissioner's Law, in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has priority over all other laws in this country, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner. On this occasion, I want to remind you of another fact. In fact, when we look at the military commissioner's powers, he not only can submit annual reports, but also if Parliament assesses the parliamentary military commissioner, he can file special reports to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly if he needs these things. The word has a parliamentary military commissioner, Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5676	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am encouraged and with this much consideration of this report, I am encouraged and with certain criticisms, because they can only strengthen the institution of protection of human rights through this form, but I am also human, morally and institutionally obliged to give specific clarifications. I tried to bring them to the Joint Defence and Security Commission, but I have an obligation to say so today and in front of this honored home. Namely, this report is not an evaluation of Boško Šiljegović but of a project of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that came into force 7. Seven. In 2009, a number of honourable MPs and delegates participated. It is a project to protect the human rights of members of the BiH Armed Forces. This is an evaluation of the work of a large number of other institutions or parts of institutions, this is an evaluation of a number and international organisations that have promoted and supported and supported this human rights protection project. The OSCE has been strongly supporting this project for two years, also done by the UN, by the Geneva DIKAF, and we have strong support from the German Bundestag and from the Swiss government, which has specifically given assistance to the parliamentary military commissioner. This is also an evaluation of a large number of individuals, participants. So, the evaluation in this report is given to the people of the last meeting who were sitting in the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, from the last call, for the reason that I submitted my Operational Work Plan for 2010 to the Joint Commission, led by Mr Zrna, in which he sat, some of the members who were sitting here today in Parliament. The operational plan went to the Joint College of Both Homes and Rated Five. I was not required under the law to give information to the three-month Joint Commission on Defence and Security, and I submitted quarterly information. All this information on the Joint Commission on Defence and Security has been evaluated by a five. So here's to a little professorial, not to be angry with some professors: in 2010 these parts – so this report is now a sum of these parts – these parts got four fives, and someone wants to end up finishing my unit. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5677	I'll ask you, really don't throw it away, the word is Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5678	Here, I'm not going to repeat these some or critics or praises. I am obliged to explain, Mrs. Majkić mentions three names: Colonel Dušan Gavrić complained of violating his human rights as a member of the Armed Forces before there was an institution of the parliamentary military commissioner; at the moment he complained about the act, Mrs. Majkić just forgot to say that he had been promoted from the rank of Colonel to the rank of Brigadier and that he was deployed with the rank of Brigadier. 40 As far as mobbing is concerned, Dr. kockar Kockar, first of all, is not finished yet and it is very difficult to prove mobing. To call Boško Šiljegović for something that happens in some barracks and unit where it's very difficult to prove, I don't think it's good. As for Mr. Mrđa Gristle, the subject, too, but I'm asking you, therefore unrelated to these three cases, I'm saying in the report there are 132 complaints. These 132 complaints, or up to 1. Six. 180 complaints, saying there are certain problems and difficulties. On the subject of a national plea, therefore we have made it clear and loud in the military commissioner's office that some officers do not have the right to place us in national groups where we do not. We had a case that a Hrvat soldier, a Catholic religion, was in the BiH Army, deployed him to a formation site held by the BiH Army, or a B component, when he was fired as a Bošnjak. We now have a situation that Hrvat, a Catholic religion, has entered the Armed Forces of BiH: Alojz Tovarović as a member of the RS Army. They've been taking him there all along as a Srbin. The man complained to the Office of Parliament's military commissioner, or office, and that's what it says here. What has some criticism – walking around the white world, I just went to the German Bundestag in Berlin, at the invitation of the Austrian Parliament and their Joint Committee on Parliamentary Oversight and was in Belgrade at the Third Conference of Military Ombudsmans. But it should be pointed out here that Boško Šiljegović was in 40 barracks, or 27 casars in 40 visits. The trust I've acquired from members of the Armed Forces, sleeping in barracks, eating what they eat, I won't give for nothing. Therefore, I accept all the suggestions that go in the direction of empowering this institution. I'm the last one. 6th was at the base training center in Pazarić where we had an epidemic of mumps and fursmacks. Ask if there's a general and if anyone from the Department of Defense slept in the barracks. So I'm asking you not to treat this report personally as my report, this is a report of a large number of people, a full-scale call last time, and, however you judge it, I'll be there to work with you. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5679	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Slavko Jovičić answered for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5680	The Honorable Chairman, the distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers who are not present, and I always ask that question, the first row of the three chairs has no one, the second row has ladies but I don't know from which institution, so don't be offended, you, Mr. Assistant, counselor, I don't know what role you're in anymore. I always welcome you from NGOs, too, fellow journalists. Well, we're here on the right subject. The institution we created in 2009, which no one has ever heard of, is now seen and needs the most problems there. That's why at the next session after the annual vacations I'm going to propose, I just don't know what it's going to be called, whether the military, whether the police, whether the democratic commissioner in each ministry will be. You saw in the ministry, say, not 41 mentioning now, everyone's almost there more or less, problems countless. The foreign ministry, you saw the commission's report yesterday, the media couldn't wait. To call the Commissioner there if we make it up, and we make things up, so that we can put a man in a position to be criticized, and a man doesn't have so much responsibility; by supporting all this that Mrs. Majkić said he shouldn't be working towards those officers in that way, but whoever I ask the question, I can't ask the commissioner whom people have complained and whatever he's doing, no one will advance them, nor will he give them any other acts, or I don't know what to do, because the minister says - wait, no matter what Commissioner, I'm Minister Come Hi, Goodbye. When we're gonna coordinate those relationships to get somebody here, and what I was saying last time was a misunderstanding, that these people that we've chosen, who are directors of agencies, ministries and ask them questions, it was a misunderstanding that like me, I can't ask them, but here I have to answer to the people. Well, we should all answer to the people, firstly, those who do so, so that we, as Parliament, who make laws and decisions on behalf of and on behalf of them, and for them, and for the people. But here the most needed would be a commissioner for the people. But let him say what the people think about all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5681	Let's just get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5682	We're on the subject, the Honorable Chairman, we're on the subject. Countless reports here have countered that no one has even seen the point of the agenda. He didn't even pay attention, and not that, I'm not going to tell anyone, nor is it my right, as some have respected whether I'm reading or I'm following everything, but I don't have the right to tell if my colleague or colleague has been reading this for 16 days or not, or if he hasn't received these materials, he hasn't seen or I don't know. It is not my right and I do not deal with these things, but when it comes to this topic, here is the state, in this is BiH... – that you do not like to say common institutions and you love the state, the state – that the main problem of this country is Boško Šiljegović. He is also a fine fence, so it is not him; it is an institution. Here, I won't speak personally of a man anymore. My people, when we talk about the problems of this country and this country, the ones in charge, we talk. We've got three complaints to settle. Now, I'd like to ask the minister today, if he were here, why it wasn't settled. No deputy, no assistant, no one. And then you're surprised that I'm the only one voting against that record, you name it, says the ministers attended. What ministers, how long was he sitting here for a minute? So once in my last session, I said I can't put the SIPA police back in, they don't have jurisdiction, what do we do? So I'm postponing the agenda, what the distinguished colleague Kalabić was talking about about, but it's all connected, it's all the Commissioner, and there we need to talk about a report from a man we don't choose, and he won't come. So those whom we choose will not come, how will they force him?- I'm sorry. So we'll put it off next time, so this. Therefore, I would suggest that we postpone this report of the honourable Commissioner for the 2016 review, I believe this mobing will be reduced and some relations there will be improved, so that the report could then be accepted. 42 But to be serious, and this is a serious story, even more serious than this proposal. My people, dear colleagues, this country is in huge trouble, financial, survival. We need the trustee in everything, and you find him a place. Find his name. How do we get out of this situation? I therefore propose that this report be accepted by the honourable commissioner, the institution of the parliamentary military commissioner. And even if they didn't accept it, I don't know if these officers are going to sleep there again in the barracks, whether they're going to carry the acts they've received, or if they're going to be given more credit for not knowing what merits, but besides, what acts they've acquired, in which activities they've contributed to BiH moving forward. So is there an act for us? Here, I'd like to suggest an act for myself. My people, how far did we get involved? And when I remember what we've missed through this Parliament, that no one has answered, the word has not spoken, and so many problems in those institutions, so many problems in the ministries, so many problems in everything, and it's all just my hand, and now the main problem of this country is the military commissioner. I don't know what else to say. And this is better if I didn't say anything, but there's something to be said. I can see that you can't wait for me to finish, so that you come to order that you don't say anything again, and that everything that's important we miss through some sieve, and that what, in practice, not diminishing the importance of a parliamentary commissioner, we catch up with who's drunk, and now we're going to lose two hours of debate, and countless points of the agenda were not at all, they should have been. Why, when we submitted the initiative, did the Commission's work not continue to investigate the spending of donations and those thieving, over 40 billion were robbed of this country? Now for the three acts they didn't get, now the military commissioner is responsible and that he ate the soup there with that army, and so he is, whether it was salty or too salty, now I have to determine. So come on, people, seriously, this Parliament and all of this to do what is the priority of this people and this country. Thank you very much. And someone will always tell me demagogy some. Demagogy be it, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5683	So, a break of 10 minutes, but since we planned at 1:00 to give a break, I suggest we take a break from 60 minutes to 13,50 to meet here. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the work of the House of Representatives session. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: 43 Ad. 16. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5686	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, for the SDP Club, the Derk Report is acceptable and we will support it. This does not mean that we have not read closely in it and found that there are significant problems in the functioning of the company, above all the electrotransmission... for which the control is in charge of Derk, and that we are familiar with the difficulties that Derk faced in his work in such a situation. However, let me read that part of the report, which I consider important, or quote. He is immediately in the introduction and says, "In front of BiH are adapting to the specificities of the regional and European objective of the wholesale market model. Three BiH regulatory committees in co-operation with market participants, including the ministries, have prepared a document on the obstacles, preconditions and solutions for the successful functioning of the electricity market in BiH, which the Council of Ministers and the government of entities, as energy policyholders, should face identified preconditions and obstacles to resolving the successful functioning of the electricity market in BiH." This sounds alarming for experts. For people who are not so familiar with this area, it may sound like another one of the reports, or documents. If so, it is seen in the next part of the text where the Derk of the BiH Council of Ministers and the entity government expects to provide guidelines and support to regulators as soon as possible regarding access to the opening of the market. Because the end of the transitional period is January 1st, 2012. The situation here is somewhat touched, related to the main responsibility of the Derk, which is the opening of the market. And I'll look first at that part, that part of the text. With respect to the situation in the sector, I believe that DARK, despite the regular annual report, should have informed on the challenges of implementing the reform and the committee responsible for Parliament's House of Representatives. That is all I want to do is point out to colleagues from the Derek that, in addition to the resolution ministries, the BiH Parliament is an institution that is relevant for defining policies in the energy sector, for implementing them, and in particular for implementing the commitments adopted under international agreements, because the introduction of a regulatory market is, in fact, a commitment we have accepted by signing the Energy Community Agreement. In order to explain the situation a little more closely than what is written in the Derk Report, I consider it necessary to point out to my colleagues in Parliament that the reports of the international authorities, which are monitoring the implementation of the international commitments under these agreements, are such as to indicate that BiH is late and is at the beginning of all signatories, which was not the case three to four years ago. We are late in opening the market, we are late in opening EU legislation, 44 to the network energy sector, we are not ready to accept a third package that will become a commitment since October, we are late in an appropriate regulation related to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency and, finally, related to uncoordinated sector development planning, we do not have a strategy for the development of BiH energy. As particularly important, I would like to highlight a directive that obliges all signatories to exercise by 1 January 2018 a restriction on the environment of existing new thermal power plants. It may seem a long way from 2018, but in energy it's tomorrow. Therefore, I have proposed a conclusion that should allow us to look at the problems in this sector in an analytical way and create the necessary political climate, which the DURK representatives are telling us is necessary for the implementation of commitments, i.e. reforms. And I think it is a way for this Parliament to contribute to the creation of a climate for further implementation of the commitments undertaken. You've got the text of this conclusion, but here, let me read it anyway. I am initiating the initiative, i.e. today's conclusion that in the agenda of the Parliament Assembly's House of Representatives meeting, which will take place in September of the month, the point is: The analysis of the implementation of the commitments that BiH has made by signing international agreements and contracts in the field of energy. In addition to the State Commission for Electricity (DERK), which already has some material delivered, I propose that the initial analysis be prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which has not written a single row in its 2010 report on this matter. The particular reason for this conclusion is the fact that the delay in implementing reforms for BiH has the following consequences: there is no possibility of using donor funds, which are otherwise available to support the implementation of the reform; we have missed opportunities to use the incentives of millions of marks, using a clean development mechanism under the Kyoto Agreement, because we have slowly implemented and built the administrative infrastructure that is necessary. And, in my opinion, not implementing reforms is actually the biggest reason why investment in this sector that we expect to start an economy, especially in the production capacity sector, is simply not coming to BiH. Finally, a direct cause for proposing this conclusion is also a letter that is 22. Six. 2011 addressed to the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr Denis Bećirović, which gave the content on the work of the Energy Community for 2010, which was also addressed by the Council of Ministers to the European Parliament and to the parliaments of the signatories of the agreement. I would like to stress that the involvement of the European Parliament in the whole procedure around the energy community is a good indicator that it will not tolerate the failure of the commitments undertaken and that we are living in an illusion if we think that some of the deadlines we have signed will be extended to us. And, as an illustration of the weight of the commitments, just to make that so-called. The Environmental Impact Limitation Directive from large deposits.. means that unless thermal power plants are reconstructed in BiH, that unless this directive is implemented to all the thermal power plants in BiH that are working today, they will under this signed contract 1. 1. 2018 to be closed, everything, from first to last. And I think it's a very, very serious thing to deal with and that it's a real opportunity for this Parliament to get involved in solving this problem. 45 So I thank my colleagues in the Derk who initiated my reaction, asking for political, as they have said here, support for the implementation of this... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5687	Thank you. Since there are no more reporting for discussion, do you have any needs, any of the guests? There isn't. We're closing the debate on the 16th agenda. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Work report and Financial Report of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2010 18. 3. 2011 The BiH Postal Transport Agency submitted reports in accordance with Article 10 (9) of the Law on Postage of BiH. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications is 7. Seven. In 2011, she delivered an opinion on the reports. The Commission has accepted the reports and is proposing to the House to adopt them. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I am closing, or Zijad Jagodić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5689	I'm sorry. I would ask only the representatives of the Post Office, I don't know, last week, or ten days ago we discussed the 2009 Work Report, so it was particularly clear to me, not to say, I don't know, but I asked the Agency to take care of some indicators in the next period and to confirm in this report. However, I am interested in either answering or explaining, because I understand that the postal operators in the BiH area that are around 10, we have public operators, but we also have so-called. However, with public operators, here I am going to get you specifically from this data that I have calculated myself, I believe that certain MPs may have seen it, but compared to the previous year, the difference appears even greater. What do I want to point out? Let's say by an employee at the Public Business Post Office of Serbia one postman or employee earns 19,700 a year, HP Mostar 27,000, the Public Enterprise BH Post 33,000 per worker per year. However, in the case of couriers who are registered here, who have a license to do these jobs, I will now tell you only a few figures that speak enough that something is wrong with us, or something is happening which is incomprehensible, and let's say the company Rea express d.o.o. that has 205,000 marks per year, 48.000 marks per worker In doing so, 90,000 marks per worker per year DHL International, but Inter Europa RTC d.d. Sarajevo has 229,000 per worker per year, so one courier. 46 I believe that our agency should be accounted for. Here it is tabular even shown how revenue has been achieved, from which it is possible to see and see that in some way this redistribution of income should be slightly more balanced because, ultimately, our public operators, or mailmen, are in charge of all possible banks to bear, but with such low incomes they will not be able to increase their rolling stock and their standard, while we have those who unfortunately, I suppose, and I believe because I also have evidence that in the public institutions of BiH, they have their own associates who give them mail, which these couriers are carrying 80 and 90 marks, one ordinary postal package, letter or letter, which is certainly not passing through with our public operators. I would ask that the postal transport agency in this respect make an account and in some ways adapt this difference between one and the other so that there is no such difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5690	I'm closing the debate on the 17th agenda. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Report on activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' Audit Office for 2010 In accordance with Article 6(2) of the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions is 28. 3. 2011 submitted a report for adoption. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its opinion on the Report in 8.7.2011. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dušanka Majkić reports for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5692	Thank you very much. Here's this report on the 2010 audit office's activities, which is kind of unfortunately named. In fact, this is work in 2010, and it's about the 2009 budget, so the first person to look at the title can think it's about the 2010 report. It means the work of the office in 2010, but the budget for 2009. Actually, I need to say a few words about this report. So this is the report which represents the most important activities of the Office for Audit and, as we can see, the Office for Audit has done a job called the Financial Audit, which is 63 BiH institutions, of which, as you know, 28 received a positive opinion, 19 received a positive opinion with the emphasis on the case, and 15 opinions with the reserve. The second job was to review the consolidated report on the implementation of the 47 BiH budget; the third, two impact audits – the acquisition of computer equipment in BiH institutions and the employment process; the fourth, three specific audits. I'd like to say a few words about these audits. It is clear, therefore, that the responsible Parliamentary Finance and Budget Commission is very comprehensively considering audit reports but indeed the question is that it is possible that many institutions that spend huge financial resources, which do not respect the years of the revision recommendations, are rewarded with a reserve opinion. If the audit says in its report that the internal control system is not good, which is like the most common observation, this means that all types of opportunities for misuse of public money are open, and that means that this must be reflected in the institution's report. If we also know that the Prosecutor's Office has never filed a single indictment on the audit reports from 2000 to today, then it is clear that the revision is becoming increasingly self-inflicted. So, regardless of what Parliament has perfected the methods of work, regardless of what the audit is doing, we do not actually have sanctions for those who are in an irresponsible way available to public money. Finally, one of the most common questions that I have asked for many years at the Office for Audition: Where is this materiality threshold that reaches for a certain institution to receive a negative report? So, as is known, so far the Office for Audit has only given one negative report, rated only one report negatively, and that was BHRTV. All the rest were reports with a reserve they were supposed to say and suggest that the institution was not doing it the right way. It is also very important that the Office for Auditing in its reports points to acts of corruption. BiH, which is highly quoted on the corruption scale, should have the segment... was processed in the audit office's report. So, this year, that is, in this review report, the Office for Audits has strayed from that proclaimed item, which was often mentioned, and has decided to speak from the academic level about the issue of corruption itself, holding an educational seminar to the MPs, rather than really pointing to the existence of acts in the field of corruption. Also, what has long gone beyond the work of this institution is the issue of impact review. During this time how much impact review deals with two impact audits, which I said earlier, the Office for Audit in Banja Luka led by Mr. Čeko did 10 audits. So there's some reason why impact audits are hitching off in the audit office, why this dynamics can't possibly reach the dynamics of financial audits and what the Office is doing in the first place to fix the number of impact audits, because only they provide an answer to whether it has the public money properly, or whether what we're getting is enough for the money we've invested. Accordingly, I have also suggested one conclusion concerning Article 10. The audit law because in 2004, the last revision of the Office for Audit was carried out by the international organisation SIGMA and they reviewed and made comments on how the Office for Audit works. And, given that the Office for Auditing has been obliged every four years to review the way the Office for Auditing is doing business, if it has not done so today, I propose one conclusion: 'In accordance with Article 10. The Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, Official Messenger No. 12/06, The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Institutions' Audit Office to immediately initiate the professional assessment of its work by the independent auditory house of the other country and to deliver the report on the professional evaluation to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." 48 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5693	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. Annual Financial Report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office 2010 The BiH institutions' audit office is 4. 3. In 2011, he submitted the Annual Financial Report for adoption. The financial and budgetary committee responsible is 8. Seven. In 2011, she delivered an opinion. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the Annual Financial Report. There's no record of a hearing. There is, for a word, Lazar Prodanović answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5695	Mr. Chairman, I have no objection about this financial report but I have one question that is usually a painful issue for everyone, the largest number of institutions in BiH, and it concerns the price of renting a space for accommodation in the BiH institutions' audit office. I believe that the sum of 260,000 KM is huge, unsuitable and that these are the amounts that worry about such a trend. It is, therefore, for this number of employees such a trend in price increases, I do not know what price per m2, but I think that this is an inappropriate way of spending budget funds and that this trend must be stopped urgently. In just a few years of payment, renting this space, the issue of accommodation of such an institution could be permanently resolved. Also, I would like to note that only last year compared to the previous year for one quarter more employees in the BiH Institution's Audit Service, which confirms what the distinguished colleague Majkić made, and we would have to work more on the impact review, not the revision of the annual reports. But I want to pay particular attention, and I'm sorry that I haven't been to the Post Office before, where 10% of the institution's budget is paid for the lease, for the lease and accommodation of only 12 employees in such an agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5696	I'm closing the debate. 49 We move to the 20th item of the agenda: Ad. 20. Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export and Credit Agency for 2010 In accordance with Article 14(3) of the Law establishing the Export Credit Agency of BiH, the Management Board of the Izvono-Credit Agency provided the Work Report 5. 4. 2011 The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs shall be 22. Seven. In 2011, she delivered a Opinion on the Report. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5698	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, it is evident from the IGA report that she is facing a series of problems. On the one hand, we have a lack of support from the BiH state that has not authorised IGA to issue guarantees for which the state would certainly stand as a guarantee. In a conversation with the director, it was said that an adequate guarantee fund was not formed either. Also, when it comes to factoring operations, BiH does not have a factoring law that would unite, i.e. harmonize individual laws that are said to be in certain parts, so in certain segments and occasionally, by the way, deal with factoring. These are the Law on Liabilities, the Law on Banks, the Law on Central Bank and the Law on Bankruptness, winding-up and other laws. The problem, however, is that there are no systematic sources, international factoring sources introduced into one single law. I also believe that the problem of both the guarantee fund and the factoring but also the capital itself, i.e. the capitalisation of IGA, needs to be systematically solved. I have heard, and I have checked this information, that Parliament has made a decision in the previous assembly on the recapitalisation of IGA. But I think that no ad hoc solutions to Parliament should be addressed in this way, i.e. to solve such an important problem, the problem of recapitalisation of IGA should be dealt with systematically. Why is this guarantee fund important, and why is it important to strengthen regulation in the area of factoring? So from the very fact that in the EU factoring represents one of the very important activities, both banks and factoring houses, so 80% of the factoring, factoring activities refer to small and medium-sized companies that should be... at the heart of our interest. Four years ago, there were more than 300 factoring companies in the EU. The value of factoring services was 600 billion euros, which even accounted for 6% of the EU-wide GDP value. I think that only these data can show us the importance of strengthening the capacity of business factoring in BiH. It is good that IGA has become a full member of the international organization of the factoring house chain, so-called ... but it is necessary to ratify international contracts relating to international trade law as soon as possible. So most of them refer to UN conventions dealing with both problems and 50 unifications, i.e. Facilitating the transfer of rights and claims in international trade. To this end, it would be necessary for us to also provide support through ratification of those contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5699	Since there are no more reports for the debate, I am concluding a debate on the 20th agenda. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda: Ad. 21. 2010 BHRT Work and Business Report BiH Radio-Television Management Board is 4. 5. 2011 submitted the adoption report. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 22. Seven. 2011 The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. The Commission proposes to the House to adopt the following conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly estimates that the key problem in the operation of RTVBiH is management.' I'm opening a debate on the report. For God's sake, was this a mistake, Mr. Belkić? Did you sign up for...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5701	... veryunpractical to have 15 reports in one session. And there's little fatigue, etc., but here's something to say about at least these individual reports. Knowing the overall situation, I believe here, and a large number of MPs know that, it has offered me to report precisely on this Commission proposal that the key problem for the situation in television is basically management. I'll give my own very briefly... The key problem is the obstruction of the overall reform project from the very beginning. Of course, the responsibility for this is borne by this Parliament, the RES, the Resort Commission, etc. We've lost hours and days here on staffing, appointments, resolutions, initiatives, no concrete results. Nobody's talking about the corporation anymore, practically the whole project is completely, completely blocked. So, of course I'm not defending, I absolutely don't mind defending anyone when it comes to management, I can't give an assessment of how people do, what they do, there's a board of directors who's in charge of it, but I'm pretty sure it's not a key problem when it comes to the position of television in management. Of course, it certainly is very important to have a capable management, but this was a reform project that was simply stopped at a crucial moment, so the moment of the corporate failure. 51 This report I will support for the simple reason why it shows the state it is. Now, what needs to be done is very difficult in this situation of different opinions in general about the need for the public service to exist in the way it is imagined. And, without the political consensus here, I think we're going to have a constant repeat situation like we already have a few years. So, I'm still saying, I'm going to support this report, but I don't think absolutely that the key reason for the management of this situation is television.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5702	Dušanka Majkić applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5703	Also, I want to say because I am a witness and a last-declaration and stories that were led to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly when it comes to BHRT. First of all, I'd like to introduce you to the fact that two joint committees have been dealing with this institution both at home for three years. And they were not only concerned but also made certain conclusions intended primarily for the Governing Board that should have respected these conclusions. It is unusual that none of the conclusions of any home have been respected by this institution. The conclusion of the 55th session of the House of Representatives says it supports the undertaken activities of the Board of Directors of BHRT relating to the selection of a consulting firm that will form a plan for recovery and financial consolidation, and tasks the Board of Directors of BHRT to deliver that plan to the House of Representatives as soon as possible. So it's been three years in a row, and here we are today, and we still don't have this document called the plan of recovery and financial consolidation of BHRT. The Director-General passed the decision of the Management Board and the Parliamentary Assembly instead of the document, which I said was called the Recovery Plan and the financial consolidation, brought into the process of the restructuring plan, an analysis of the existing situation, with a proposal for a framework restructuring plan – the Framework Strategy Plan – it is difficult to say what it says, and it would be difficult to explain what it means. This, I say, document represents an analysis of the situation, but does not contain a proposal for concrete measures. I don't know what we got from that document then. And finally, the director finds it wise that such a recovery plan of BHRT is a condition, and the prerequisite of all conditions is to form a corporation. So... to go to rehab, he needs a corporation. E, I say from this place there is no Corporation until there is a recovery, because uncleared accounts – BH television that has 21 million debt, Federal television that also cramps in debt, the RTVRS that received a business report the other day positive – such friendship and such partnership making it impossible in the Corporation. So any marriage needs to be done first. The creation of the Corporation cannot be a condition for 700 workers to be transferred to the Corporation at least from BHRT so that they are tortured by it. So what BHRT has now would transfer that problem to someone else dealing with it. The other conditions, therefore, are the first to settle the situation, the second condition to be done in general by the Corporation is the end of mutual court disputes arising from the mutual debts of the three public broadcasters in BiH. For three years we've also been asking to resolve the issue, to follow the law, that's Article 23. The Law on the Public TV System, and the distribution of marketing funds by the principle of 50% BHRT, 25% RTRS and 25% Federal Television – and none of it, each remained with its own and no one gave their 52 parts of the cake regardless of what this law says. Well, you can't take from one law what suits you and throw away what doesn't suit you. The other data is even more about the situation in that house. Three key positions in BHRT, i.e. a total of six, when I take two of the most important places in terms of executive workers - are all Bošnjak. So there's no balance. Not only were they appointed by the director's decision, but it is possible that there was no such sensitivity to place one representative of the Serbian and Croatian people for decorations, so that we believe that the management of this house has good intentions and that it wants to build this BiH according to the scale of all three peoples. I suppose you left it on purpose for both Srbin and Hrvat to say – and it is not our service. That's not where the whole story ends. The Director-General appointed the leadership of key resolutions without the consent of the Management Board, although the Public Service Act requires the appointment of the most significant managers and programme functions to ensure the consent of the Management Board. So tell me, please, if the general manager has no respect for his board of directors, if he does not respect his decisions, if he does not provide them with the material for the sessions to be held at the board meetings – what are we talking about? What kind of institution are we talking about, and what can this Parliament actually do? Ours and all we can do is give instructions to the board of directors and seek his responsibility to honor what we have said. The board of directors will meet you if there are any problems in the realization of his intentions. Program editors didn't come through the contest. The appointment decision was made four years ago by the Director. And for four years, these people in temporary status have been sitting at the head of the program. Members of the BHRT Management Board in the order of the Serbian and Croatian peoples, Nikola Deretić and Marija Putica, have expired their mandate. The mandate expired, and in the meantime, as we know, the RAC sent a proposal for two other candidates who were chosen in an unusual way, out of a large number of candidates, precisely them. And here, Parliament has not made a decision to be representatives of the Serbian and Croatian people in the Management Committee. And I think it is necessary that they do as they do at the Regulatory Agency for Communications where neither the Director-General nor the RAC's advice have had a mandate since 2007, means in the technical mandate, and make decisions, so the representatives of the Serbian and Croatian people should work on the Management Board until others are elected. And don't ask a question and ask people who bother you to work, because they will go from there when this parliament makes a decision to replace them. Finally, I propose not to adopt the 2010 report on BHRT's work and business, but to return to meeting its current obligations. I do not want to talk knowingly about this terrible report that speaks of the institution's solar system, because just to look at the back when you see the capital of the company that was 38 million at the time of its founding, and today 15 – BHRT disappears, it melts, it melts. And in that sense, I am, not getting into those details of helping to keep working, suggesting three conclusions. The first is: 'It is necessary for the Board of Directors of BHRT to act on the earlier conclusions of the House of Representatives from the 32nd session of 9 and 14. 7; 41st session of 3. 12th and 55th sessions of 10th. 6.' 53 Under two: 'The House of Representatives supports the work of the Board of Directors of BHRT. The members of the Management Board to whom the mandate has expired should continue their work in full capacity until the election of new members." And three: 'I am asked by the Board of Directors of BHRT to submit to the House of Representatives within 60 days of the Parliamentary Assembly a document called the Rehabilitation Plan and the financial consolidation of BHRT.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5704	Šemsudin Mehmedović signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5705	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to report at all on this agenda item, but my replica refers to my two previous speakers, in the first row of Mr Belkić. I am a member of the Commission for Transport and Communications and, unfortunately, one conclusion has been adopted with a very clumsy formulation that BHRT's state of affairs is the fault of management. We MPs with very poor information at our disposal cannot draw such conclusions. In fact, I felt so, and I was against making such a conclusion, but most of the votes were adopted by the Commission and can adopt what kind of conclusion most votes would like, but it does not maintain the situation, in fact. Why am I saying this? We're witnessing that it's not just the manager's fault for the BHRT situation. There is a conflict between the Management Board and management, that is, we are also the problem of representatives who have been discussing this issue for years, we are making certain conclusions, someone respects them, someone respects them, as far as they don't respect them, here we cannot choose members of the Management Board from the order of the Serbian, or Croatian people, because someone is blocking it, meaning in Parliament, etc., etc. So, I don't think it's just management, but part of the guilt we're all carrying together. And the replica is also at the "No Corporation Without Rehabilitation", so little in the poetic style, but I'm afraid it's an invitation to non-compliance with the law. We have the Law on the Public TV System and we should implement the Law or change it in Parliament. And we as representatives, when giving the solemn statement, swore that we would respect the BiH Constitution and laws and I expect colleagues and colleagues, of course, to abide by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5706	Dušanka Majkić applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5707	My colleague, I assume that you thought that when an institution was established it was intended to operate positively and operate by law. I can't believe you're going to tell me that she's supposed to go further into some kind of integration and that she can be such a loser where it all breaks down. 54 In particular, I can't believe you think two such losers should bring their property in with a third that's only positive, and then let's forget what happened and move on. Now, I repeat again that there is no corporation without clean bills and no corporation without a solution to court disputes, no matter how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5708	The replica was reported by Ismeta Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5709	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, ladies and gentlemen, the guests, I will use the replica and give up this application for discussion, because I think I can say what I want through this replica. First of all, Mrs. Majkić, there would be no losers if this law had been respected. And the law said immediately to establish a corporation in which all broadcasters would have equal obligations and not the full burden of what should be produced by BHRT fell to BHRT and FTV who had submitted the complete costs of a technical and technological chain that would collapse continuously. This reduces the capital of this company, of course, because it is a company that must progress according to what its activities bring during all its activities. So, according to the law, the corporation had to be set up as soon as possible in order to avoid all this which is now the product of the BHRT situation. We are talking about BHRT, but in principle we should talk about non-compliance with the law passed in this House, which prescribed the establishment of a corporation which would then have... 700 employees, mostly technical persons, who would produce a program for one, the other and the third television house in our country, and then we wouldn't have problems like we have today. When are we talking about recovery and consolidation? The resolution and consolidation of BHRT is tied very closely and causally to the rehabilitation and consolidation of the entire system which is not in as good condition as you would like to say for the RTVRS, if I may add, because I seem to know a little better what television broadcasters have done in this country. Two years ago, I was directly involved and for me, television wasn't just a remote control or political interest, but I felt it directly on my teller. So, the situation in either of these broadcasters is not good, the situation is only going to be worse, and in two years' time in this House, we will certainly talk about the complete collapse of the RT system in BiH and the inability to monitor any technical and technological standards in Europe or the world unless we start to insist on what is essence. And the essence is: gentlemen, the law that has been passed in this Parliamentary Assembly should be respected, and not given that this law is still unrespected and fully eroded by the activity that we are talking about, then ultimately it speaks of the shortcomings of one or the other part of a system which is caused by this law. I also want to say that I disagree with this formulation that the culprit is management. It is absolutely possible to talk about the complete devasted relations within the management – the Management Board which directly reflects the work and life of the employees of RTV BiH, and in addition to the program intended for end-users, which are viewers who pay for the TV subscription... 55
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5710	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5711	(thank you very much), they pay a RTV subscription which, in my opinion, is extremely low in BiH to meet the needs of a system like this. Thank you. I'm giving up the discussion and I don't agree with the formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5712	Thank you. Another replica was reported by Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5713	So, I would agree if that principle went exactly when someone answered the word, I will know exactly – the representatives of the Bosniak people will defend BHRT, and the other two nations will speak differently. And that's true. And now, whoever answers the next, I know what his discussion will look like. But I warn you, fellow Members, in one way or another: I agree with you if that principle were consistently respected, which is that all legal provisions are respected. But if... you choose from one law what you take and the other you won't take, then don't talk to me about principle. What is the situation in the RTVRS let it go, we will deal with it, but BHRT will never be in the capacity it is imagined and therefore not the RS' fault, but those who led this institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5714	Who signed up? All right, you'll let it happen, Šefik, won't you? First of all, I would like to say that we here should express the views of the MPs and political parties represented in the House of Representatives and we should not allow ourselves this luxury to speak here on behalf of the entire peoples. So this is still a House of Representatives, and the House of Peoples may have some other jurisdiction, and I wouldn't be talking about it right now. From this 2010 report on BHRT's business, which we all received as MPs, I hope and read, we can be sure that the public service of BHRT ended in 2010 with the result that it showed great financial and other difficulties in its work and that it is evident that it works in very difficult circumstances. It is obvious that the revenues provided by public services in BiH are not enough to finance their needs in the production of the programme that the law requires them to do. The fact is that administrative structures have not implemented the Law on the Public TV System of BiH for more than five years, and the law is passed, and I agree with counterpart Dervoz, right here – in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is the final step in the reform of public broadcasting in BiH, i.e. the establishment of a public broadcaster corporation that establishes a final system in our country. Unfortunately, RTVBiH has been working for over five years in a state of temporary business, we could say it works in irregular conditions. It is very important that all MPs in the House of Representatives be aware of one important fact, which is that the end of the reform of public broadcasting in BiH is one of the 16 conditions on BiH's path to the EU and that 56 is our obligation to meet it in BiH. So, when we say that we will not form a korporacija, then it must be clear to everyone, both in Parliament and outside of the BiH Parliament, that we in this way and in such statements directly block BiH's path to the EU and someone has a right to do so, but we all need to know what the consequences are. We have a situation that the mandate for two board members expired two years ago. We also have a warning from the OSCE Media Freedom Commissioner who officially sent a letter to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, among other things. I think it is very important that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives send a clear message from today's session that the Public Service in BiH should rest on the principles on which public services in Europe rest and that no one should endanger the independence and editorial independence of the media, and that is precisely the essence of the reform that Europe is asking us to do. I would also like to say that it is high time for the Parliamentary Assembly today and the House of Representatives to try to reach certain conclusions so that this situation is slowly overcome. That is why I will propose three concrete conclusions at the end of my discussion. First: 'At the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, select two new members of the RTVBiH Management Board instead of the existing members of the mandate.' The second conclusion: 'The BiH Public TV Service Management Board is committed to undertake all activities within three months and establish the Public Broadcasting Corporation in accordance with the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, which has been boycotted for five and a half years. This also establishes legal assumptions for the implementation of the process of digitisation of the Public TV System in BiH, which is already very late." Third conclusion: 'The Board of Directors of BHRT is obliged to adopt, on a proposal from the management of BHRT, the additions and amendments to the Statutes of BHRT which would be fully in line with European standards on the operation of public broadcasters and recommendations of the Council of Europe and the OSCE.' Ismeta Dervoz appeared for the replica, and another deputy, Mr. Ljubić, applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5715	I just want to point out that the club I belong to, so the Club of Representatives of the SBB, will never represent the national interests of any people in this House of Parliament. We are here with the task of trying to represent the citizens of BiH and the general interest that has been completely forgotten and expelled as one qualification that we so need. So the general interest and the general good must become something that we will all start dealing with together. Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we add another conclusion to what you have said, and that is: 'In the ninth month of both committees, which have in the task of broadcasting, for traffic and communication, with the cooperation of a wider community of board experts and management, 57 organizes a common broad public debate on the topic of acceleration of the process needed for the achievement of these objectives and tasks which you have counted now and which are related to our tasks for joining the EU, all in the interest of, of course, the citizens of the viewers, those who now, gentlemen, according to all statistics, which are relevant, do not look at any of these three televisions, but look at many other televisions from environments and satellite programs, which is certainly not good for us, nor for those whose work it is, and especially not for the citizens who want to have their television, so whatever they call it, but it should be intended and dedicated to those who live in this country.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5716	Thank you. I'd just like to ask you to discuss this conclusion that you have proposed and deliver so that we can make a statement. A second deputy chairman, Mr. Božo Ljubić, applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5717	My colleagues and colleagues, I will begin my debate with a replica of two presentations of distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Dervoz. First, I disagree and cannot tell my colleague Dervoz that the party's representative club will not represent anyone's national interests here when it comes to television. We have all sworn here to respect the BiH Constitution that implies representing the national interests of all three constituent peoples in BiH and we are bound to do so. The second replica refers to Mr Mehmedović's discussion on the Commission's Communication and Transport Report, as he said it did not reflect, to say the Commission's view. Yes, it reflects exactly the Commission's position because it was adopted by a majority of votes, but of course it does not reflect the opinion of all the members of that Commission. And now let me start with what's the measure of this today. I voted in favour of a conclusion that says the biggest responsibility is management, but I don't think management is the only one responsible for the BHRT situation. In fact, the basic problem of BHRT, the basic problem of the entire Public Service in BiH, failed the reform of the Public Service in BiH and as a result, is the failure of this corporation. You know, when an ancient Greek legislator asked if he Grk passed the best laws to the Greeks, he said no, only those they could change. Therefore, the laws and reforms that this country can implement and which are appropriate to its spirit and its relations in BiH were also to be passed here in BiH, and this obviously did not happen, and this ultimately results in all of these problems that we are facing today. As far as the other things that we here in the Report are concerned, of course, there are a lot of problems beyond competence, and jurisdiction, and the power of management and the board itself, and I'm sure they've dealt with them the way they could. So, after all, we're talking here about that the basic burden of reforming this service has fallen to BHRT and Federal Television. Yes, but they inherited all the property, all the assets, all the workers, the infrastructure, and they are the most responsible. And just in that, let me put it this way, the relationship comes up with the biggest disputes, so 58 unsettled debts of 7 million and 762 KM due to the Federal Television BHRT, etc., accumulated liabilities... in Paris, rate of payment of a 70% rTV fee. I'm going to say here a little bit of a heretic claim, and that's also a large percentage of what that service is like, looking at it in total. Unfortunately, I can't watch all three services, because where I live I can't watch the TV RS signal, but I can watch these two other services. I watch one when I can, I don't look at another because I protect my mental health. So here it was also found that the smallest payment, payment of rTV fees in the area covered by HT Eronet. It is clear what areas these are, these are the majority Croatian areas, but you wonder why. So, one part of that tv service, that I too play a little bit of words, instead of informing, it irritates, in fact, its own deposit holders of the tv service that should be informed, and then they are expected to meet those obligations. And that is so and there is reason why the Hrvat are and are looking for what we are looking for, a channel in Croatian, however, it may not be the most accurate information we are looking for, but in any case it is a metaphor for what we lack. We lack the influence and identity of a constituent people in the public information process, and this must be resolved through the reform of this entire system in BiH, not only separately solved for the Croatian people, because everything that is being solved for one people is also being resolved for BiH. And then we come to what is not also mentioned here in this report, but what I have had the opportunity to learn about a letter from the President of the Management Board, as a member of the Commission for Transport and Communications of this Parliament, and this is about the national structure of key persons in this BHRT. Mrs. Majkić said something about it. I'll be much more specific. So, CEO of BHRT gentleman, here present, Mehmed Agović – Bošnjak; v.d. Director of BHT1 Belmin Karamehmedović – Bošnjak; Director of BHT1 Senad Ćumurović, I suppose, also Bošnjakinja. Editorial composition, that sort of thing. Editorial position of the BHT1 Information Programme as well. Now, let someone here say, therefore, that his assignment as a representative in Parliament, who took an oath before this people and this respected home, is not to protect the national interests of all three peoples. Who's supposed to protect them? Who's gonna do that? Therefore, I would like to tell you that this institution BHRT – in every normal state is one of the most important institutions, so it is no wonder that in these some countries that we call 'banana republics', by taking over state television, the matter is also over. In fact, someone here seems to have taken over these TVs in a different way, so then we have an entity tv service, which is not only in the service of one nation but even one party. So these things, of course, need to be solved. And I'm also going to say one thing here. I voted on the Commission for Transport and Communications to support the Report, not because I am satisfied with the work of the institution, only because I believe that the state needs such an institution, for the first time, I will be fully open, following the actions of their employees, not all of them, but one part, which participates in the information-political programme, I noticed that people on that TV service are at least trying to be what they should be, unlike some others. And so I think we should give it a chance, but in any case we should ask BHRT and the whole system, first of all, to meet those obligations that must be met, including financial ones. Look, I've never seen here in this 59-year-old report in any way critical of the number of employees and the amount of program produced, but I'm convinced it's in a huge disproportionate way with what's being produced and what's new technology allows, so to do rationalization. There's a big one, I'd say, a big mine of savings, and that's what he's got to do. I have here, sitting at the table, received suggestions of certain conclusions from colleagues who are focused on various parts and I will very consciously determine these conclusions. Among them are very good conclusions that remind us of our earlier obligations, with the 32nd session, which require certain solutions. But I'm saying, as I raised my hand on the Commission's report, I'll rise again, but here from my debate you could clearly see that I'm not satisfied with the work of this service. As for the board of directors, of course, until we do the appointment of persons who need to replace representatives of Srbin and Hrvat, so it's normal for them to stay working there for those who have been there so far, there is no dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5718	Ismeta Dervoz applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5719	I don't know if I used my rights, but if I did, I'd apologize, very briefly. Mr. Ljubić, to be exact. So we will not represent the rights of any nation or nation, we will represent the legitimate demands and desires of all the peoples, the peoples, the citizens of BiH who live and whom our work is dedicated to. So now I believe I've been very specific about that. BHRT was a picture and an opportunity of what is called a national key in our country. The way our college looks and what the presidency looks like, that's what BHRT looked like. Why isn't it like that today? The devastation of the frames was terrible. I'm just one of the people who left the system two years ago because of the inability of professional engagement, because working conditions are humiliating, and because professionals can't do their job, among other things, and because of the terrible political pressures that come from all the options. So that's what led to the devastation. You very difficult today can get a professional and professional man to come work on BHRT. It's easier in Al Jazeer, Sarajevo. So, I hope I was precise now. So, the SBB will represent the justified and necessary demands of all the nationalities of BiH citizens in all the cases that as such are to be given to us. And as for BHRT, I hope that we get to the point where we reach a consensus that we need to get things back to square one, make them right. Because at the beginning, this was one of the super-sacrifice projects, very badly designed, politically colored and under-focused on what should be the task of this system. Forgive me if I may be a little more emotionally expressing my views, it's only because it felt directly on my back until a short time ago. Thank you very much. I feel for all BHRT employees. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5720	Thank you. Petar Kunić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5721	The most pressing question here was who was responsible for this situation. Of course it's not just the management's fault, but there are more subjects, I'd say. What is Parliament's fault? It is difficult to say because, as I have read, Parliament has made adequate conclusions, but these conclusions have not been implemented. Someone's obstructed those conclusions. The conclusions are good and they're good for good. So there's a lot of people who are guilty, and I'd like to bring it down to the common denominator, which Mrs. Ismeta just said earlier, and I think this public service has put a political cap on it that protects it, and it seems to me that it can do whatever it wants without ever coming under responsibility. And it's a very serious thing. Of course, I dropped the fact that it is very important, that the prosecution is wrong, that it is the judiciary, and these are the factors in BiH that bear the most blame for the functioning of this state. There are many disputes that have not been resolved at all, which are being obstructed, we heard from the chairman of the board of directors. So no one will work on it, because they have a signal of political structures that they don't work, and they don't work. It cannot go forward unless the functioning of the rule of law is established, so it goes further without the functioning of the law. I'd be glad to hear it here, when it's fighting for public interest... the audience. So, to really show interest in the functioning of the law, the Constitution. We have catastrophic illegal things here, and we want to defend, this is not possible to defend. Here are organizational issues, management issues, financial, personal. Personal said just now, I won't say it again. Management – so there the directors do whatever they want, they don't have a brake at all. They work without a legal basis. They're doing a criminal thing, gentlemen. And if this Parliament - I did not vote for this report, nor will I vote when I see that something is against the law, without saying the worst thing, that it is something criminal - and in that sense this Parliament must once say to this Public Service and to all other entities that violate the law that it is a violation of the law and that those who break the law must come under the law and have to go to jail. There's no responsibility. I'll only mention a few things on that route. Therefore, the relationship between the Director and the Management Board does not work. So the relationship between one collectiveity doesn't work, if you assume that the Governing Board is one collectiveity, one individual who signs, at least that's how we heard it on the Commission, signs unauthorized, is the perpetrator of the duty out of the blue. So this country tolerates the fact that someone has been acting out of line. It tolerates the fact that the Regulatory Agency is also acting out of the blue. Well, they sign something illegal, it's crimes. Is that what the authorities see and are they going to do? Without that, there's no step, there's no progress, and there won't be any. So, I'd like to finish up and say, "Don't think we're so naive and say management." Well, we wanted to cut back in a way, I think we're a little bit of a push-off situation, which is catastrophic, which needs to be dealt with seriously, which we shouldn't take care of in this House and say, well, it's not their fault, it's our fault, it's their fault. So, how did they do business, what made 22 million losses? Unbelievable. Someone can't afford to take, I don't know, loans a million and something self-performing! Well, there's no self-government in the system anywhere, so it shouldn't be here either. 61 Therefore, I find it difficult to say if I wanted to conclude something, to suggest some measures. I agree with some of the measures that have been proposed so far, but I think we all need to get serious in this Parliament and in – we just had one point... where Mr. Prodanović turned attention to 200 and some thousand leases – that, the audit house. Please take that, so the lease has 200 and some thousands. Well, it's a waste, it's a waste of this people's money! Well, that's irresponsible, it's in the end of the line immoral, if it had to be, because today it's a relative category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5722	Ambassador Lazar Prodanović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5723	The chairman, I would not talk about this financial segment, by just looking at the review of the sectoral activities of the BiH Public Television Service. I think we have a responsibility to the citizens, so this service should be towards all BiH citizens, no matter where they live, equally professional, responsible, unbiased, the more they achieve certain successes, let's say, in terms of the payment of that fee over 70 per cent in the last year, this fee is realised, and that makes it more than 62, which is what distinguished counterpart Božo Ljubić said, 62% of the revenues of the Public Television Service. At the same time, I want to say that RS citizens pay 40% of this amount. This is not at all a negligible amount of funds collected for the Public Service. In the information platform, normally when it comes to this, then it is said that politicians interfere with editorial policy and so on, but I would like to remind you of one very important thing that is equally important in BiH for all its citizens. ... Last week, two tragic events were marked in BiH, one due to the victims in Keraterm in Prijedor, and the other in the local community of Apple Usticolin, so in the Federation of BiH, near Foca. The impact section on BHT1 has been displayed... for Keraterm and the victims of the tragic condition that occurred there in the previous war. And I find it necessary... to mark. It is very important to insist professionally on the responsibilities of those responsible for such crimes, but it is unacceptable for me not to mention in any word in the BHT1 information programme the crimes in the area of the apple in the municipality of Ustikolin, so to the local community of Apples. I can't figure out what kind of message we want to send in BiH? What is this attitude towards the tragedy of any man in this country and how we think that such a public service, a public TV service in BiH, will gain confidence in the whole of BiH. What do we mean? What does that even mean? Thus, such a relationship damages the software activity of this house, reduces its reputation, and fails to gain the trust of those who allocate their money for the work of this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5724	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić spoke for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5725	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 62 Dear colleagues and colleagues, every year we have a report, like this – one a year, and then it depends on the problem of what happens on BHT, and they are common there, and then we have these periodic ones and we have never moved from the point of going a little further, but we always go back. The bottom line, not just financial reports and all these losses, is in terms of the programme. If someone accepts you and separates their funds by paying a TV fee, it means you're building a program. And always that imputation to us that we politicians want to interfere, I have said many times, in the work of the media, in the work of NGOs and the justice system, and neither of us can, but here at least we can point to failures and mistakes, and they are obvious. It was an obvious mistake and indeed no one can explain to me, he was an economist, he was a lawyer, he was some other technical profession, he was an ordinary man, who doesn't even have eight classes -- how it's possible that so many private television houses and services are doing business, and that these three broadcasters, here are two of these in Sarajevo, for which the people pay a tax, which must, legally, have problems like this. Now we've got two new TV houses and only in the last year. One works, one gets permission, and it'll work. We have countless of these local media houses, all running, no one, I haven't heard yet, that he's turned off the TV. They're just opening new ones. And all these indicators are talking about shutting down BHTV. And when we from the RS, I have to stress that, especially from the Serbian National Corps, we criticise all of this, here they want to lift everything that carries the prefix BH, everything that is some state institution, everything that represents some integration factor, and I don't even know what, and we're just suggesting that a normal relationship is balanced there and that all the people in this country accept it. If BHT's ratings are in RS, although they should never be trusted by these polls, each one says, it orders polls for itself and they will never show exactly the situation, but it's small ratings, so it's logical that people watch some TVs that won't offend them. I must be so clear, this television is insulting the Serbian people. Because in the information shows of that television you will see only when some, God Bog, scandal in the RS, and there are not many, thank Bog that they are nowhere in the world, and not in the RS and BiH, and you will see somewhere at the end of the theatre or some scenes if there are cultural events because Banja Luka is a big city and they are constantly organizing and they are reporting something, and all of these other things, which are in the interest of three people, you will see little. Of course, I don't interfere with editorial policy, I've said countless times, and I don't want to watch a diary that will stand in -- 10 minutes for the Bosniak people, 10 minutes for the Serbian people, 10 minutes for the Croatian people, so here's no harm done, 10 minutes for the others, and then it would take 40 minutes and 10 minutes for the low. So I don't want to watch that diary. I want to watch a normal information program that's going to say what the state of this country is, because it's impossible anymore, that's what a citizen is looking for. Every number here, it can be more or less for the figure up and down, and it's very important financially, but it would be much less for this loss if that television had been accepted throughout BiH and it represented rather than representing, rather than looking at the interests of all three constituent peoples. I've never been there for that national context to play, but people, he's dominant in this country. He's dominant in one-national countries as well. He's dominant everywhere. It's specific here, next to that domination. But don't let us humiliate some other peoples by dominating them. Now that's a problem, and editorial policies, which I don't want to interfere with, and all of these figures that come up here. And every time we had this, we had it all the same. Nothing to improve. Of course, the Serbian people can never be satisfied that they are paying, they must be legally, and I will never invite them not to pay because it would be against the law, and I do not want to violate any law, nor my own home stairs, let alone the law of the country for which I signed the oath there that I would respect all 63 and the Constitution. But obviously, people, that it doesn't go as well as any other personal ones, which I don't want to talk about, things. Is it settled in five days, whether this editor has been removed because of this or that, it is not mine, but it is to convey to you the attitudes of citizens who constantly call me and ask me, it is fortunately few of them because there are few of them, not Bog that they all look at, because as many as they would call me, it could not be the administration of the whole Parliament to gather it all up to me, but there are those who inform me, as they would say, are bitter. Just from what I asked at the last session, a parliamentary question about the broadcasting of those contributions that are unfortunate for this people, not asking for a balance in minutes, or about events reported by journalists, but looking for objective information. Now, these relationships at the BH House, BHTV1 have produced their negative financial balances, whatever you want to call them, and these tables that show a lot of things, but the only problem is that you don't see a solution. You see here everything that anyone has done, how he has done, who is to whom he owes, who has paid for what he has paid, only here no one sees who will take care of this. In the last term, I remember well that there was a second year of mandate – I said fine and I'll take a stenogram, but I don't need it because I remembered – I was looking for that BH1 bankruptcy then, not to cancel it, no, not that, because I would be honored later, but the bankruptcy is solved by many problems, so it is brought to zero, and only from zero can it be entered into clean relations in that new corporation that would be formed. An esteemed colleague hasn't noticed anyone here, I don't speak for her, everyone here has the right to speak their mind, but I'll just say my own, people, you can't go with such losses into a clean relationship corporation with someone who's doing business positively. I'd like that some auditory house or someone to convince that these, too, under the supposed signs, here's mine from RS TV, that everything works, furniture, lies, so that's not true, so I'd say, people, so wait and they're in big trouble. But here I see everything by number. And there I get those numbers, all I like to see, so I can compare so I can say if I'm right about what I'm saying. At least this will lead us to a normal solution if we catch these pages and tables. It's nothing to us. But the fact is that two televisions in the same house can't solve their problems that last for years as they exist. I can't do it for years! And basically, if there really is a team, one of the experts, to say, give you a methodology, pay these private television owners to show you (well they wouldn't reveal it a secret because of the competition), but if there's anyone to deal with those media to say, people, here they don't take fees or stamps, and look what they're doing. That's why normally all those who advertise, although now it's hard to find sponsors for anything, run to them because it's big ratings. They're running away, who could make some money, because no one's looking at it. So, you're important to us, and the least important thing is who wrote what number here, whether it's paid, there's a number I've seen, I can't even remember when it's tiring to read and look at these numbers, and you can't even remember it, but there's this one item, and there's one item, but you're better off asking me to stand up with this story, too, but well she doesn't matter, they're all the same and I'm saying, what someone there wrote as much, I don't know, a million marks or it's taken from someone. I like the report here that says there's no 22 million losses, and last year it was 21 or before 20, and they don't owe this much, and this year it increased by another one-and-a-half, or last year, actually, since the 2010 report, I know what I'm talking about, that it's been increased. Well, I'd be delighted to have a report in front of me that there's a 500,000-mark loss, two million dollars, where luck, five, overjoyed, we're getting into a better situation right now. But I repeat, remember, it's not an attack on this television, it's never going to be better there financially, it's only going to be worse. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5726	You've got 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5727	I'm done. I see the number, it will be worse as long as such a programme is broadcast that some people are dissatisfied with, and I will not speak for others because... they honor me as I defend the interests of Croatian people, I know that they are dissatisfied, but here is the Serbian people, whose representative I am, is a completely dissatisfied program of this television. So you honor me for me to interfere with editorial policy, and I don't do anything down there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5728	Aleksandra Pandurević applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5729	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we could hear everyone here looking for the culprit. I think it's become more completely pointless and immaterial, because the debate on BHRT has been going on for years and from a dead end, as far as I can tell, we can't move. You, Mr. Chairman, were very optimistic when you said that we should complete the reform of the Public Television System. I think we have one failed attempt, or public TV system trying. Our public service, unfortunately, I am speaking at all about all three public services, has not achieved the role that public services should play in a democratic society, in one rule of law. Our public services are not, their superior role should be the voice of the citizens, the voice of the public. Unfortunately, we all know that behind every public service here is a certain political option, that public services don't set their editorial policies on their own, that they're moving around again, that they used to be an international community, they're some political parties today. I think that if we really want to fulfil one of these EU tasks, we need to organise a thematic session here to discuss the issue of public service in general. I can now say here that when some asset value is far below loss, it's known what such a public enterprise is going to follow, but I'm not going to say it. You know it better all here than I do, especially these MPs who were here before that there were thematic sessions dedicated to BHRT's work, that they were to bring in two whole sets of conclusions on two occasions. Unfortunately, yesterday we appear to be either the day before yesterday by Mr Ahmet Žilić from his press statements that none of these conclusions were realised, which shows – and yet this same Management Board, this management of BHRT is responsible for this parliament to submit not only a report of its work but also what it has done according to these conclusions – it all shows that we have a rotten system. I don't even know if, given the dubiosis in which we have the Public Service, possible, I don't think I call it, I really don't want anyone here to accuse me of destroying and destroying the Public Service, on the contrary, I think the Public Service is the mirror of a society and state, that the Public Service but the true Public Service, which is the voice of the public, which is the voice of the citizens, which is independent, professional and objective, is free of any influence – we need it. It is up to us to say whether we have 65 political wills in the first place and whether we want to have such a public service. If we have and if we have the political will here to have the true Public Service they have, I would not agree that countries in the region have not yet fully completed their reform, but if we had one European really public service, then we can reach an agreement. If there's no such political will, then I'm afraid we'll spend more years here looking for the culprit who's guilty of losing, who's guilty, one doing business with losses, the other not doing business, no good editorial policy, etc. In any of the three public services, to be clear, it's not a great condition. So, in that sense, I would suggest an initiative, which is to hold a joint session with the House of Peoples at which we will consider BHRT's business, but really do a real analysis, implementing the Law on Public TV Service and respecting the provisions of the Constitution. Because here, we had, and Mr. Ljubić was saying something about it, and two days ago a statement by the chairman of the board of directors that there was absolutely a national imbalance at the Public BHRT Service. I'll tell you it's also a violation of Article 8. Public service law. As for this financial business, the Public TV Service Act, its member 21, says that in each financial year BHRT must ensure that its total expenditure is covered by its total revenues. So, the fact is that it didn't happen in 2010, it hasn't happened in the past few years, and it's repeated in continuity, but no one's responding. I think... that the problem is far, far more serious than this one report and from the conclusions that we might be able to adopt on that report and that we really need one honest, maybe, and painful and passionate debate, some of us may have to give up something, but if we do, and I think we all need a public service, because I have to say, Mrs. Dervoz has said that low TV is a subscription, I think that TV is a subscription that we pay and is too high for what we get in return. Because let's be honest, here I am not looking at public services at all, public services aren't any research but measurements are pipemeters, digital means of measurement, infallible, they show that our public services are at the bottom of the ratings scale. Well, it's a shame that the BHRT Public Service has an annual income from marketing, I think if I remember correctly, four million. Any private tv station, a little better and more watched, makes that much monthly income. Besides this, I'd like to suggest two more conclusions. One is 'to ask the Management Board and BHRT's management to provide information by 1 October on the implementation of the conclusions of the 32nd session of the House of Representatives, held on 9 and 14 July 2008, and on the 41st session, held on 3 December 2008.' The second conclusion is that 'I am asking the BHRT responsible to urgently ensure the full application of the RTTV Service Act and to coordinate its business with Article 8(1) and Article 21. BH's RTTV Service Act. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5730	Šefik Džaferović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5731	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore public TV system reform or public TV system in BiH began in the period and term of 2002-2005. 66 It is normally arranged and what has been done until then is mainly done. Some small things or small details were done in the period 2006 to 2010. And I think that this reform is not really isolated at all and that it is closely linked to the situation in BiH and our relations with the BiH institutions and the relations that we all have in BiH and with our views. We're in a situation today where there's an obvious obstruction or, let me just say it milder now, when there's completely no desire for this reform to be completed. In the last term when I asked the question why not or why the fourth legal entity, the Public Broadcasting Corporation, was then the answer was that this was not done because one of the entity parliaments, so the federal parliament did not pass a law on federal television, so when he passed that law on the entity public broadcaster the next excuse was no board of directors. And we claimed that it was possible to do so with the existing, then existing Management Board. However, here today and when there is a new Management Board and when the Law on the Federation of BiH Radio Television is passed, when it is no longer a controversial matter at all, then, as reasons for the non-constitution of the Corporation, I will freely say, certain things and list such things as simply amaze me. So you have a law that says you have to do it and you have to do it anyway, and then someone gets up who participates in law-making and says I won't do it because there's a problem here and there. And I suggest to these people who so understand law enforcement that they try to patent that invention somewhere like this, I mean, at the European patent office, I mean, it's this kind of thing that can be curiosity. Well, I guess you need to change the law and ask that the law be changed, if there's nothing you don't want to do, so try and see if there's any political will, and not come up with reasons, say there are losses here, and I'm not going to make a korporacija. So, the way is completely the other way around. That kind of argument does not know any system when it comes to law enforcement. Therefore, in BiH, we need to have urgent access to the realisation of all three laws,... in fact, all four laws, so, two entity and two state laws, the Law on the Public TV System, the Law on Public TV Service, and two laws on entity services, do the Corporation and move on. I think it's in everyone's interest in BiH to do it. No, I don't think there is, when things are realistically considered, the system has been made so and therefore there have been great criticism that all the money that is being collected throughout BiH, on any basis, when it comes to financing this system through both subscription and marketing, that half of it is being separated and given to the public service, and the other half to be equally shared among entity broadcasters. The solution is highly attacked and highly criticised and there is a basis for this criticism. But it was just done to make it a factor that would make this system unique. And I believe that the time ahead will show that everyone in BiH will be paid to build a system and build a corporation. Neither RS television, Federation TV or BiH TV will be able to operate independently without this system. I think it's everyone's interest, and that's how it's supposed to be done. There is talk of ethnic representation in the state service. All right. Census of '91. Year, I say now, population list '91. years, but also in Federal TV but also in RS TV – census '91. A year. What's the problem? Here I call on us to implement it immediately, in all: personnel, people, employed by the '91 census. A year. We're all up for it. Let's do it. Why aren't we doing this? What are we running from the Corporation? That's why I think it's good that what I heard today from several discussions that in BiH simply put an end to what we've had so far, to sit down and see what it is we need to do to make a corporation. It is possible to do the Corporation and in this situation 67 BHRT's debt, financially, it is possible. So no one's gonna burden anyone. It's not true that someone will be burdened when they enter the Corporation, they know exactly who they are, in what state the Corporation is in, and it can also be transferred to future relations. But here I think the point is to get away from that integral fourth subject that needs to help all these services function as one organism. So, the goal is for the public service to function as one organism, that the authorities in that service are the ones who will function and no one will interfere with them, but still be one organism. Get away from it, and I think it's because of this situation that we're in, so I've started my discussion since 2006, and we're talking about when there's been a general stalemate on the reform road to BiH, one torture for several years. I don't think we could benefit from that. I think that as soon as possible, I should stay out of the topic, form a government in BiH as soon as possible, resolve the issue of state aid law, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, census, military property, send a message to people and move hard. This is what it's all about. I mean, if we want to, this shouldn't be a problem to deal with. That's why I support these conclusions I've heard from several colleagues and colleagues. First of all by Denis Bećirović, then Ismeta Dervoz. There is this conclusion by counterpart Pandurević that speaks of the need to organise, though parliamentary debate, mostly some sort of debate, we need to see what we will do and how we will continue. It just doesn't work like this anymore. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5732	Aleksandra Pandurević called for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5733	In fact, I'd disagree, I really don't think there's a need and it's wrong to set things up that every point to some problem is accused of undermining institutions and not implementing laws. The Law on the Public TV System in this country, let's be honest, no one respects, no one respects, and our public service violates it. That you have a private company that is doing very well, so whether I like it or not, I, the editorial policy of the RTVRS, can't challenge them that independent auditors have evaluated their work, their financial business – people with profits do business, and that you do business, why would you get involved and let you get involved in a story, team up with a loser, and sink into the abyss. Here, we're resuscitating, let's see how we can resuscitate the situation on BHRT, is it even possible to resuscitate it?- I'm sorry. Let's see how we're going to have these three public services that are going to do a positive job. So when they have a good business, they'll run themselves to unite into a single corporation. But I'm sorry, if I had a private company and I needed to be united with some loser, so I wouldn't allow it under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5734	Replica, Mato Franjičević. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5735	The replica of one part of Mr. Džaferović's presentation, the part he spoke of was in the interest of everyone, i.e. that, in his opinion, it should be in everyone's interest to build on this system through the construction of the Corporation, if I understood correctly. It's not in everyone's interest. Some people don't care. The system, the public TV system as it was established, was established entirely past and against the will of a nation. The political representatives of that people were not involved in its creation and, if they participated, they were against the creation that was achieved. The strategic direction was drawn somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, in November 2003, by meeting the three prime ministers, none of which, of course, should be said, was not Hrvat, and how it began and ended. So the system is a problem. And the sooner we realize that the problem is fundamentally natural, so the problem is in the system, then the problem must normally be expressed in both these positions of public services and in these positions of non-implementation of all those things that have been drawn up, such as building a corporation. The sooner we figure it out, the sooner we can diagnose the disease, and we may be able to look for a cure that will be real and that will allow the patient to heal. And finally just, I think for a long time, I've been thinking about whether to answer at all, and I wouldn't have guessed if it wasn't for this, because we're meeting a fundamental question -- a question of meaning. From what I understand, this is my first term here, but this home has already discussed these things, made certain conclusions, and now the question is: you can discuss, argue, analyze, look for the best possible solutions, then conclude something – and then throw it all into the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5736	I just want to remind all of us that all three constituent nations in this country have their own representatives in different political parties and in this Parliament. For this reason, I would once again invite you really not to speak to anyone from any party on behalf of a whole nation. I don't think anyone has the right to do that. The replica was reported by Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5737	Just for a little while, Mr. Chairman, colleague Franjičević. I, of course, respect his right to state his opinion, but I would like to remind myself of some notorious facts. When the law is published in "the Official Messenger of BiH" with the signature of the two chairmans, at that time two homes, then it is a law that passed all the procedures that we have laid down here by adopting the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure and then it is a law that applies to all of us in BiH. After the law is passed, and when it comes to its implementation, say that there is no implementation because some are interested and some are interested; it may be that some are interested, that some are anyway, but the law as a law must be implemented. So, I'm talking about it. Or initiatives must be put in place to change the law. And I'm saying, and I'm going to go on now, I think that the existing framework as it is set enables all of us who live in this country, all the peoples and all the citizens to express our interests. And that's what I'm saying. And I think if we build this system and build 69 we build that it can be an integrated system for this country. I'm not for any system that will be disintegrated when it comes to this country. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5738	Niko Lozančić came forward to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5739	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests, so that I don't irritate anyone I won't speak for a single nation, I won't, even, imagine everyone is Eski, so I'll try to say something from that philosophy about this problem we've been discussing for the last five years, at least me. I fully understand the fact that citizens, so be Eskim, Hrvat, Srbin, Bošnjak, or any other ethnicity, religion, regional belongings etc., especially if they live in one country, have a need, have a desire to have their own public television, public TV system and service that will be in their function. BiH citizens believe that they are not the exception of all these normal citizens and I believe that they all want to have a public TV system and public TV services. And the legislator gave these citizens, gave them this miracle which, only when it comes to the public service of BiH, costs almost 50 million marks a year, if I read this report correctly, almost 50 million marks. There's a problem. Unlike those who do not have the privilege of being called by the legislator by public services, who by their own knowledge, by their own knowledge, by their capital and by their production program, and broadcast the programme, and manage, and survive on the market, these public incomes, which again the legislator prescribed as an obligation for all citizens, because they have a radio or television receiver, and regardless of their opportunity, have had the opportunity to watch these public broadcasters and whether they want to watch these public broadcasters at all. Let's just say I rarely watch public broadcaster programs. I have nothing against them, let them be alive and sound, but here I often prefer the programs of those who are not public and it seems to me that many times more are in the function of that public, at least by my criteria of public interest, and I am often sorry that at least one part of those funds that citizens single out as taxes don't go to the ones I watch. Why are they being discriminated against? That's not what we're discussing. We have here from year to year repeating the same story and today we even have what seems to me the worst in parliamentary practice, we have proposals of conclusions that invite someone to finally read our conclusions three or four years ago and make them real. Now, I don't know how they're going to motivate those who haven't carried out our conclusions in four years to realize them now. I have to say, I don't get it. Well, because I don't understand it, I probably won't support those conclusions. It is often called here to the fact that some are undermining, and here we have heard such terms, undermining the public tv service. He should not be undermined, he is most undermined by those who defend him, so those who do not defend him have no need to undermine him, because he is thus set up, as he is perceived, a complete system means public broadcasting in BiH – because of the error in the concept of failure. It does not fail because Mr. Agović is the head of today's general director or anyone else, which is a member of the Management Board this or that. The defect is in the system. And we all, I don't know, for 10 almost years we've been cleverly dragging our heads into the sand, pretending like it's the perfect concept, just so we have some incompetent members of the board of directors, we have some incompetent managers, and that's why 70 that system produces losses year after year, and there are some televisions that come from the back of the land that work like they have all the benefits of this world. Here we should say that this system and that this may be a good example to create a system just to be at the expense of a nation is never a good solution. It's never a good solution, and he finally slams himself against the heads of those who have pushed him forward. Here this system has been declared and set up against the will of legitimate representations of one of the three constituent peoples – both in the executive, and in the legislative authority, and in the BiH Constitutional Court. And maybe someone felt that it made perfection in this country because there was a phenomenal solution, a phenomenal system that would only be good because here it is contrary to the will of one of the three peoples. I will keep repeating, no matter what it was, that no solution in this country, no solution that is against the will of any of the three peoples – is good, there is no perspective and it is not good for anyone, nor for anyone who is building such a solution. What's the ethnic structure? Well, clearly, she's the product of this condition. She's a product of a condition in which she has no responsibility. We, also discussing these days, think someone mentioned from respected colleagues that this is the only institution since there has been an audit, the BiH Audit Office, the only institution that has received a negative report. I don't know if because of this negative report anyone in this country has initiated any procedure, even in that single institution that has received a negative report. We'd probably hear if it was, probably not. This is a system where one of the parts of that system is blocking even us in Parliament. The Regulatory Agency shall provide the names of the members of its choice, deliver to us... Parliament, members of the Management Board, does not get a pass for these candidates, and then gets angry with Parliament. And that's all we can do. And they get angry, they won't repeat the procedure. And we can't do anything to them, because they're certainly out of office and they don't answer to anyone, not this Parliament, not the executive, they don't answer to anyone in this country. And now we have a Solomonian solution that three years apart from all of us living and healthy here, we extend our mandates to the board members we appointed 10 years ago! Who are we going to call to account for this? There's no one here. We have situations to ask for something from the Management Board, and the Management Board has no instruments, we do not support it to realize. So, regardless of who it was, the only solution to this problem called the Public TV System, including three public TV services, is to finally pass a normal law. A normal law that will be in the interest of the public and which will ensure the normal establishment of the Public TV System to the satisfaction of all and such a system has a safe chance and to function, such a system will surely answer many questions that we can repeat our conclusions on today but until we do so, there is no answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5740	Boško Tomić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, here, I'll try to say a few things very briefly. First of all, which is why we won't support this report. 71 Today, when we discuss the Work Report, more has been said about the law and the laws as if we were not discussing the report itself. And I agree with most of those who said that some things in the law should be changed, but today we're discussing the report. The report is here in front of us, and it is presented with certain things from which they themselves acknowledge that they are fifth in BiH, and that according to, let's say, some studies. First of all, so much money invested from nearly 50 million out, you're in fifth place, I don't think that's good. It means that these funds are used in an unquality way, although it may not be good to say, some 8 million are given to various sports world championships, etc. And that's what it should be, maybe even a good one sometimes, maybe if it wasn't for that part, the question is how much ratings would be. But when we talk about the percentage of the bill, then find me one of these public institutions or communal or any company that has 70% of the charge. This is an extremely high percentage of the bill. For these reasons, I believe that BiH citizens respect the laws to a good degree. But here, I must say, a negative audit report. Isn't that enough argument to say today, gentlemen, this report cannot be accepted and some more radical measures must be taken. Not to mention what my colleagues said was inadequate national representation, that on the programs – when I watch all TVs, especially information shows, so it's simply a habit and because of the work I do – I must say that I noticed that there was no adequate RS space with information on information shows, which was spoken of by Mr. Prodanović, that I did not specify individual examples. But here, from my experience, working on some jobs in RS, I was only invited once to BHT TV for interview and never again, and for three years I performed some functions at the RS level – and the area that covered pensions, martial and disability protection and work – there was reason to call myself. They didn't have feelings or needs, which means that editorial policy has to be adapted to the whole area, to all the peoples, and that what you say, President, but I have to say that in RS, they don't experience BH television, they don't feel like they're part of a public service that's properly and equally to all citizens, at least, that I'm not talking about percentages, the people I'm talking to. Gentlemen, for you from television and the Management Board and Management, organize yourselves, implement your programmes that will be acceptable to the citizens of BiH, and then you will be in a more favourable position. Now, I think it's funny sometimes with a report like this to go to Parliament without having to do this and not getting a certain kind of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5742	I thank Ambassador Tomić. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 22nd item of the agenda: Ad. 22. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's 2010 Human Rights Institution activities 72 The Ombudsmans for Human Rights of BiH are in accordance with Article 34 (1) of the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH and Article 10. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH submitted the Annual Report for adoption. The responsibility of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics has been delivered by Opinion 26. Seven. 2011 The Joint Commission adopted the Annual Report and proposed that it be adopted by the House. I'm opening a debate. No reports, or are there? The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go. And get Nermina Ćemalović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5744	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a moral obligation to at least follow the issue of human rights in BiH with a few sentences, given this kind of serious report. Namely, the Ombudsman's Annual Report, the Ombudsman's Institution, produced data on the state of human rights in BiH, backed by numerous facts and documents. It is apparent that the institution has received 3,298 complaints for breach of law, the largest number of which refers to ineffectiveness of the judiciary. We are aware and this is only one confirmation in the knowledge that BiH's judiciary is certainly ready for a thorough reform, i.e. it needs a thorough reform. In doing so, citizens once complained wrongly, believing that this institution is a subsidy to the judiciary, but regardless of the complaints that are addressed to a large extent, it is evident that labour rights, property rights, pension rights and all that that are common citizens, and not just members of certain nations, is painful. From that, the institution resolved 1,615 complaints. If you look at the institution's work, then you see that... the number of complaints has increased by 60%, which points to a fact that can be considered with two aspects. First, that citizens today, this year, have much more confidence in the Ombudsman institution than they had in the previous period, but it can also be drawn a different conclusion: that there are many more violations of human rights and with this more complaints being made by the citizens. Another important fact regarding the institution's work is that since May of last year, 2010, the Ombudsman's institution has been operating at BiH level and has led three ombudsmen from three constituent nations, with regional offices and with field offices. Since we are in the era of reform and we are on our way to the EU waiting for many, many reform processes that we are obliged to do, I would ask here: is there any further reform of the Ombudsman institution planned and is it in the plan, or will the recommendations of the Venice Commission relating to the Ombudsman Institution ever be respected? On the other hand, since this is an independent body, we in Parliament have received this report. It says that many of those to whom the ombudsmen’s recommendations were addressed did not respond. And somehow, if this report is carefully read, it can be observed if the recommendation is addressed to a 73 state-level body, then it has in principle ignored the recommendation and there are no mechanisms that should be followed by the Ombudsman’s recommendations. How do you achieve this and how to establish protection mechanisms against human rights violations? This is one of the basic issues and that question, here, we have in one form... which is the priority of all the priorities in this House, implementation, or amendment of the Constitution on the issue of Sejdić-Finc's verdict. I would ask here if they can answer me how they see further modality that what is wrong (which they have stated is wrong, these recommendations they have made) how to do so in accordance with existing legal legislation and advances, or how to prevent them in the future? And finally, it is a sad fact that follows from this report that laws are not respected in BiH, laws passed by parliaments at all levels, that laws are not respected, that executive authorities do not respect the laws that we have passed. We've been talking about this all day in the reports today. Here, in this report that's what common people are about, we've talked about institutions, now we're talking about ordinary people. These laws also contain all international norms and regulations that we have accepted with or without discussion, but they have become a norm, they have become binding. Why and how now do you oblige institutions to comply with these laws? And I would end this discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5745	Thank you. The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this Annual Report on the results of the Human Rights Ombudsman's activities in BiH in 2010 we also discussed on the Joint Commission on Human Rights and this institution as an institution received support. This report illustrates the extent to which human rights have been violated in our country and how measures and activities could be taken to improve human rights. The Ombudsman's institution has, to the end, shown professionally and exhaustively the real state of human rights and their violation. In 2010, it was received, as my distinguished predecessor says, 3,298 complaints from citizens about human rights violations and 1,889 complaints from 2009. So there were over 5,000 complaints in the 2010 resolution process. More than 50% or 1,861 complaints were received by the Department of Civil and Political Rights Monitoring. The most complaints refer to the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, and that is about 652 complaints, then administration 512 complaints, and labour rights 488 complaints. According to the number of complaints received, the Department for Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 962 complaints, Department for the Monitoring of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 147, Department for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 135, for monitoring the rights of prisoners 101 complaints, for monitoring children's rights 94 and monitoring the rights of national and religious minorities 8 complaints. All these segments are important, but I will focus on complaints received by the Department of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, meaning somewhere around 1,000 complaints, where it was received in 2010, which is the right to work. A total of 488 complaints were received concerning the non-reporting of workers at the Pension-Invalid Insurance Office, the Health Insurance Office, the non-payment of overtime, severance and others. 74 Another problem in the field of labour relations is complaints about the application of Article 182. Law on the work of the RS and Article 143. The Law on the work of the Federation of BiH, which refers to the obligation to establish working legal status of workers whose employment relationship ended during the war. Such cases shall be subject to the Commission’s implementing data referred to in Article 182. The labour law is 43,000. It was registered as unresolved 43,000, and it was registered in October 2010. As for the rights of the person with disabilities, I will explain it at the next point where the Special Report on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is mentioned. It is a devastating fact that on the 341 recommendation of the Ombudsman Institution, there is a ignoring of the authorities to which it is addressed. I will even mention one thing, and what is unacceptable, is that the worker is fired because he filed a complaint and addressed the Ombudsman's institution, this is the case with one professor and one worker at the Department of indirect taxation. Furthermore, the Ombudsman institution, as you can see in the report, is facing a series of problems such as the spatial problem. They haven't really solved the financing of payment of space in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, I don't know where else there is; mostly, in Brcko, it's the only thing that's been settled, and also financing, which should, in fact, be financial support, especially when it comes to the Discrimination Act, where they're directly involved. These figures forward point to a large number of violations of human rights and we as Parliament should be concerned, because gentlemen, the Ombudsman institution is a reflection of the power or impotence of our Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5747	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5748	Here, I'll do it very briefly. So I am absolutely acceptable and methodology and the very concept of this report itself and, in some ways, a man can very easily inform himself of what was done and that, in some ways, in a very specific way, the problems are recognised because they have been located and identified when it comes to human rights violations, discrimination, etc. Now, there's a question of what to do next. So, it's registered so much, it's been warned, it's recommended. But, to put it that way, it becomes a practice that institutions to which recommendations are referred do not accept them exactly, nor treat them properly as they should. It is my opinion that now, on the basis of this report and identified problems – besides, as identified in the Military Commissioner's report – that the ministries, institutions dealing with justice, of course, use these materials and intervene and that, in some ways, it all makes sense. Because in the end, that's what Mr. Mate was saying, conclusions, recommendations, etc. - and in the end nothing. In order not to be such an important institution, I think we should, as a legislative authority, look for ways to make these recommendations, to say, support, or serious things, and to be implemented. This report, in addition to other reports, also mentions the problems facing the Ombudsman Institution, so space, finance, staff and all that is necessary for the work of this institution, so I think it's time for us, of course, to recommend to the College, that 75 of us at some of the next sessions, when we arrive and get rid of these tails that we still have, to have a debate on the capacity and competence of BiH institutions and to see where we have practically come and what is to be done. After all, the EU has invested a lot in this... area, in our institutions, and to see what the effects have been achieved. Here, that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5749	Thank you. The word has the Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5750	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. So, I support the report, we can commend the work of the Ombudsman, they, these three people, stabilized this institution, that's the public impression, and that comes from this report. But I didn't get up to say that. I am most interested here in the ultimate effect of the work of every institution and the institution of the Ombudsman. If you don't respect someone's orders, some other authorities, there are sanctions, one or the other. Here are the recommendations, the sightings, and there are no tangible materialized sanctions, and I think that's the key problem. And I'm not saying this, because you wouldn't be an Ombudsman if you had that opportunity, you'd be something else, but I want to tell us that we have to figure out a way to affirm their work, that those who were called still respect these reports, that some kind of sanctions should still be applied to them. The only thing I've been thinking about is what we should do, and now I think it's time to take a step in analyzing these reports. The only solution is to reach as many people in BiH as possible with the elements of this report. And I think it should be a path to which we should take a step when we talk about analysis, when we talk about reports on the work of the Ombudsman, and about this year and this special one. You see, over this report, the Ombudsman maintains its programme, so press conferences, performs on the media, a debate is organised in front of a joint committee here in the Parliamentary Assembly, I don't know if in other entity parliaments, they are closed, a report is submitted, and it is said – we support the report and we propose to Parliament to adopt it. And here, we're going to do a thematic session of this committee to see what's up with space, money, staff, etc. I don't think that's what this institution represents, say, in the countries where it was created, in Norway, Sweden, so in Scandinavia. I think that we as Parliament must do the same, as we have done with the reports on the financial business audit of the BiH institutions, we must do with this segment that is most directly related to human rights. And I propose to the Ombudsmans, and to our commission, and to us as Parliament, and to you as a College, that it be considered when the next report is on how to organise a debate in this Parliament on this report. I think this report should give way to the Ombudsmans in the BiH Parliament, invite the media and organise all-day conferences by segments to inform the public. Ask the media to transfer this, because this will either be recorded or not recorded, and I think that's the only way we can affirm the work of the Ombudsman institution to achieve the result we want to achieve by establishing them in the BiH system. That's it, thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5751	Thank you. There is probably no country in Europe where there are so many national rights fighters, and on the other hand we have reports of violations of both national and religious rights. But that's BiH, too. There are no more applications for discussion. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: Ad. 23. Special Report on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (P-320/10), Material of the BiH Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights In accordance with Article 34. The Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, the Ombudsman for Human Rights, delivered us 16. 12. 2010. Special report. The responsible Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered its opinion 26. Seven. 2011 The Joint Commission has adopted a Special Report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a discussion on the Special Report. Nermina Ćemalović picked up the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5753	Mr. Chairman, the need to draw up a special report on the rights of persons with disabilities in BiH is justified by a large number of complaints indicating violations of their rights. A total of 147 complaints were received in 2010 and, with 85 complaints from 2009, 234 complaints were received in the paper in 2010. Well, regardless of the international standards... ratified by BiH and which have constitutional basis, at the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, there is a daily violation of their rights. The maximum number of complaints relate to the failure to pay off the due claims of right-holders over a period of one to six years. Law enforcement is hard to implement. Sub-legislative acts have not been adopted, or if they have been adopted inconsistencies. Both the Federation of BiH and RS has passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Reduced Labour Capability, but is difficultly or controversially applied and implemented. I don't know if the funds for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people work, because they were founded, I don't know if the fund was founded in the Federation, in the RS it is. Furthermore, the Ombudsman Institution Report noted that both entities and Brcko District are treated differently with the rights of military disabled people and the rights of civilian people with disabilities, civilian war victims. Also, the uneven treatment of the same categories of persons, depending solely on the place of life, in BiH is worrying. This suggests the obligation of BiH authorities to ensure, in accordance with international standards, full respect for the rights of persons with disabilities throughout BiH, on equality principles and without discrimination on any basis. The lack of systematic access in 77 keeping records of persons with disabilities, i.e. the lack of a database – is one major shortage. The registration is carried out throughout the country without clearly established rules and in various institutions, such as – in various associations, centres for social work, Ministry of Labour, Health, Social Policy. In the experience of our neighbouring countries, it would be good to pass a law on the register of persons with disabilities in BiH, which would regulate the way data is collected, the degree and severity of the health damage of persons with disabilities, the way data are processed and used, and the protection of data on persons with disabilities. These data would be kept in the register of people with disabilities, which would be run and organised by the Public Health Office. Every person with disabilities in the premises of BiH has the right to independence, social integration and participation in the life of the community, as prescribed by the European Social Charter in Article 15. This is also listed in the recommendations of the BiH Ombudsman for Human Rights. I really thank them for this special report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5754	Dušanka Majkić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5755	Thank you very much. Here, to welcome the Ombudsman's representative and to say that I only want to comment on what's going on with the Ombudsman's recommendations. So it's only good what's real, if it's not real, it's not good. I've been looking at recommendations... that a man in normal circumstances couldn't refuse, not one. But then I focused on the beginning of every recommendation, and then I wondered what the ombudsmen's intentions were really like. If it is known that the largest number of recommendations apply to the level of social rights achieved, and we know that it is regulated by the laws of the entity, right, then this is unusual to me that every sentence begins: 'The state throughout the territory provides equal opportunities.' I don't mind that attitude, but I don't know how you think that's possible. You today in two municipalities located next to each other have a different level of social rights because their financial strength is not the same. In the Federation, you have cantons that are extremely poor and have cantons that have very great financial power. So when you say it's the same in all the municipalities and in the entire BiH area, I wonder if you even thought about how much it costs. It may be a goal that is pursued, but it cannot be a recommendation that is easy to achieve, especially in a country like this. Next, the state should pass laws and other sublaws that will regulate a sensitive area of disability protection. I agree, but now that the budgets are problematic, here we don't have, some we don't even have adopted, in which way you think it's even possible to realize, because... you're giving false hope that something can end, and someone won't or the economic situation is so difficult to achieve. Thirdly,'state to point out a unique methodology of access to existential issues, unequivocally form a report, a database', and so, especially when you said'state to adopt a law on protection at work of BiH whose adoption would be significant', so I'm afraid that you have entered the field of jurisdiction and that perhaps you are not, in the best interest of trying to solve the issue, in a satisfactory way 78 question of disabled people that you have not become overly carried out in your imaginations. Because if there's something inconceivable, then it's in the realm of imagination. So, I have a lot of stuff... "building apartments for disabled people." Great, but in what way? So do you think this country with such a developed economy, with an undeveloped economy – has the opportunity to do so. There's something going on, but it's not enough that it won't, and it won't settle the need that the Ombudsman's talking about. So I think you're missing reality. I agree, and I confirm that it would be wonderful, but a lot of things would be good to do, but they're not possible. And yet, you should have feelings about that reality, I ask you to do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5756	It's possible that the Ombudsman didn't even fantasize, but he read that parole "good for everything" on the basis of it. Replica, Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5757	I'd like to rephrase to my esteemed colleague, Majkić, just, let's just say, a little bit. The Ombudsman's institution should point to mistakes and... failures. And they are ours, let's say, the factor that controls us, the controller. And it wouldn't have been nice if they hadn't recorded it here and pointed it out, that they'd tempered it even if it was possible or not. It is not the Ombudsman's institution's fault that some things can't be implemented, that this kind of process in progress, that disability is not paid, that we have passed some laws that may have put our budget in the way it is and that it can't handle the so many demands and needs of the disabled who need it, indeed, are their needs that we should respect. And neither are the disabled, nor is the Ombudsman's institution that came into this state, and our entities, in this situation. And I think it's good that they, maybe they should have been even more critical, that's what they pointed at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5758	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5759	So, I think the Ombudsman must be realistic. If he says it is necessary to pass a law on protection at work at BiH level, then I say he is not aware of the political organisation of BiH. So, RS has the Labour Protection Act, and we will not accept it being passed at BiH level, even if the Ombudsman said so. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So don't put the state where it doesn't belong. Social policy is in the jurisdiction of the entity. And then you'll be real, so we from the RS, and those from the Federation, we'll try to change that there. This is how you give jurisdiction to the state where it's not there.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5760	Lazar Prodanović reported on the discussion. Here you go. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5761	Mr. Chairman, here's the Ombudsman Institution's Special Report. I also have a principled remark that he should point out that competent institutions should improve the position and status of disabled persons in BiH. It's that this, the competent institutions in this case, so the entire segment of social protection belongs to cantons and entities. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that this is one of the kinds of protection of human rights. We have regardless of... very significant segments of the protection of human rights and equal rights of every citizen in relation to their own, let's say, disability or anything. In this sense, this Special Report would make much more sense if it had been put on the agenda with the report, if we had received from the competent institutions, if we had a sector that deals with these issues and information from the competent entity ministries in order to conduct a quality debate on this issue. Now I'm going to point out a question that is very painful and very dramaticly reflected both on disabled people and on members of their families because of an unequal status if it's someone with disabilities, let's say, whose disability was created as a participant in the war, namely a wartime military invalid or a civilian victim of war, and at the same time a peacetime invalid. We have a tragic situation of social misery for those who receive other people's help and care based on their 100% disability, let's say due to the paraplegia, the resulting fall of an accident when building a building or a car accident that wasn't caused by his guilt. It would be necessary to consider this in an approximately equal position for the disabled in the environments that belong to and the environments in BiH where other institutions are competent to bring them into the same position. Because if he's a paraplegic and he's in a position to be cared for as a 100% disabled person without any possibility of harming and at enormous costs, I'm not sure that he with less than 100 marks of other people's help and care can do anything. I think it brings to a tragic position not only itself but also its entire family and the inability to... support. ... These are therefore issues that need to be debated very seriously, but I believe that this action plan and these issues could be discussed by this Parliamentary Assembly. But I think jurisdiction should focus where these issues are being decided. It is impossible in this state, if we do not change that position to better those who are peacetime people or their disability came from another situation compared to those who are also one tragic... money cannot be compensated for what man does not have, but can be brought into a position of life of a man worthy of respect and the minimum of those who require survival in this situation. So, I think it would be necessary to conduct this debate and assess the overall situation, i.e. It's a very important segment,... it's hard to provide funds when we talk about this. It often turns out to be a political parole, but we have to distribute those funds that we have for these purposes equally and fairly so that they don't feel threatened by each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5762	The word has Nermin Purić, and let MP Adnan Bašić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5763	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all once again. 80 I also welcome the intention of the BiH Ombudsman institution to draw up a special report on the rights of a significant population of bh. Citizens, who face a series of problems and obstacles in their efforts to find their place under the sun, so to produce such a special report and to have the opportunity to discuss it today. I could also agree with the parts of the discussions of previous colleagues and colleagues, and I believe that the Ombudsmans did not have a bad intention when they proposed these measures, which Mrs. Majkić mentioned to represent, in some way, meddling in something that is not in their jurisdiction. I think the intention is clear, and the intention is to point out what should be done to make the situation,... when it comes to the right people with disabilities – advance. Of course, we can agree with the vast majority of the findings presented in this report, especially in the assessment of the condition in which people with disabilities are present. Unfortunately, these conditions are very often the result of the pre-election of certain populations... when people are introduced into the law when they are promised a lot. Of course, it turns out that there is no money for this story, and then what happened in the Federation changes and additions to the Civil Victims War Act and protecting families with children, I don't know exactly what the law is called, it happens that the rights of persons with disabilities are reduced only to those persons with disabilities who have a 90% and 100% disability rate. What about all those cases where doctors, doctors, or competent institutions, didn't get me wrong, when assessing disability, might have been subjective, might have misjudged, might not have taken all the parameters into account, so they gave someone an 80% disability? So, these people have lost their right, because in order to achieve the right in the Federation of BiH you have to be disabled 90% or 100%, otherwise it manages on its own, such a message is unfortunately sent by amendments and additions to the law. On this occasion, I would like to say, when it comes to this Special Report and, otherwise, when it comes to the activities of the Ombudsman, the BiH Ombudsman's Institution, I would like to express my disappointment that, in no way, in this report, nor in that report that we discussed in the previous agenda -- there is no mention of a population of citizens in BiH who is in any way special. It is about disabled people and victims of the People's Defence of the Autonomous province of Western Bosnia, so persons with disabilities who are unjustly classified in the category of civil victims of war, despite the fact that they are members of military formations, despite the Federation Constitutional Court's ruling that the rights of those persons are equalised with the rights of other victims, war victims in the Federation of BiH. Of course, here I don't want to provoke anything, I'm just talking about a category of people who are unfairly classified where they don't belong, who face daily problems in the exercise of their rights, even, even under this Civil Victims Act of War, face a wall of silence, a wall of silent rejection. Of course, no one will tell you that they cannot exercise their rights, but in practice people find it very difficult to exercise those rights. I want to believe that the Ombudsman institution treats all citizens and all categories of BiH equally and fights for the human rights of all BiH citizens. We're all in one way or another in this country, unfortunately, threatened, because we're still building a system, learning the system, and making mistakes. Of course, we're here to correct these mistakes and every initiative is welcome, and even where there may be doubts about jurisdiction, I think it's a good topic for discussion. 81 As far as the Special Report is concerned, it is acceptable in addition to these remarks that in future when considering the situation try to reach as wide a circle of people... whose rights are threatened, and when we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities, I said which category is it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5764	The word has the honourable MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5765	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a little embarrassed to talk sitting around, so I'm gonna try to get up every time, at least out of respect for this tall home and my esteemed colleagues and dear colleagues. I've listened to a few people who aren't and I'm going to try this thing or this accident to explain from the point of view of who it is. This is a very complex and very difficult issue for some other countries, not BiH. There's a lot being said here, I know what's in those materials, but I know it from inside and reality, not just from data. Dearly respected colleagues and colleagues, this country has experienced another tremor that has remained invisible. When the war ended, BiH, only the young and staleed of Dayton BiH, found what it had found. But she also found several hundred times the number of people with disabilities, which is rarely where they show up. And now we've got three huge groups that we've been talking about. Unfortunately, divisions as divisions, thank Bog, at least they are not on a national basis which has otherwise become a practice in this unfortunate and distressed country – we have a group of wartime military people, civilian war victims, and what we call civilian disabled people, or peacetime people with disabilities. Believe me, several hundred times this country has increased the number of these people. It's one terrible and heavy load. Unfortunately, the socio-political arrangement that we talked a little bit about today is such that the huge number of rights these people need to achieve is so terriblely scattered by the unfortunate Dayton-political arrangement that from the municipality, the canton, the entity to the state, you find it very difficult to deal with in those woods of problems that we need to solve. I'm not going to tell the administration, but better red tape, which does, maybe swallows more money than it does for these cases, believe me. I know because I've been doing this job for years. How do you handle this? I think a beautiful idea, which has been presented here, is that precisely because of those very sad and very ugly events that happened in front of parlament, and everyone still remembers, they send a very ugly picture to Europe. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a basic act waiting for us on our way to the EU, so be sure and pay very, very much attention. We, persons with disabilities, especially blind people, like me, are one of the largest associations of the BiH Federation bar, and our friends from the RS also have a very strong association in which many things we do together. We have a large number of friends from abroad, the largest number of friends from the Republic of Sweden, with whom during the war there has been some good relations that are still going on and a lot of help to us today, also from Germany, Denmark, a little bit from America (it's a little far away and it's a little awkward for us), not to mention countries in the environment, where, say, all our libraries and libraries work together, work on a publishing plan and program. 82 I have to say this in terms of one of the most difficult categories of people with disabilities to understand some things. What does the BiH state need through this high house that it is obliged to do? It has to be this initial chapel that's going to run this whole thing, put it in one order and priority that needs to be solved, according to what you've heard from this experience, not ad hoc problem solving. The state has to deal seriously with this very difficult problem, the state, I repeat, not some segments of this country that do it the way they do it. And don't be convinced that they don't do it very badly sometimes, even to the harm of these people, which is another terrible treatation for these people. There's a lot of my colleagues here who are women, but they're all destined to be mothers by nature. I'd just like to bring them a few of those mothers who have worked with me for years in our work together when it comes to all people with disabilities to see that since the birth of a child retarded or lost in development and for life being condemned to be his mother. And the greatest question that is asked before them, and what about when I die? I'm sorry that I'm so emotional, you know, I'm a little low on emotions, so sometimes I can't even say what I want to say, especially when it comes to this kind of thing. What we bring to this parliament at a special session that we will have to schedule, be sure of that, because the transformation of the constitutional arrangements of BiH will also solve this issue, there will be no more red tape and administration to solve such painful issues in the way that you now solve and which you have before you. So that's our job again, so let's get him out of here. I could tell you a lot about this. If one of you has never read, and is available in all techniques because we even work for blind people, and you thank Bog you are none of us and you can read them – the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a very important act that you will practically have to learn well if you think in Eurp. At least those who have a future as politicians to keep doing it, I unfortunately don't have it and I won't be doing it after this term. And in the end, I'm going to end up with one thing, and I'm asking you to think about it after this session when you find a time for it. Someone once said, it's not the same to be a good man and a good citizen. If you think that's recently said, it's very, very distant in the past, said old Aristotel. And the other thing I want to tell you, every country as a society, as a whole, is as strong and as good as watching over its weakest membership. At this moment live persons, the weakest members of this society are persons with disabilities, then our pensioners come, then come unemployed but, remember, all of them, as one of these examples puts out, have among all these unprotected and highly unprotected categories, and they pay for our unhappiness, carelessness and carelessness. Remember this well, if we want to be a strong country, and we're not a good country yet, and we're not a serious country yet, we're not that, so don't be angry, because in many things they don't think we are, let us be. When we are, and one of the conditions is to help our weakest member, so people with disabilities, then we'll all be the three I've told you. Think about it and help us. And besides this idea, please keep it in mind, one special assembly, one session of this high parliament should help, all those who have power, strength and will to help these people. And remember, it's a very, very difficult problem for countries that have a lot more economic power and strength to do it, and they haven't done the job yet, I'm telling you from experience. Thank you very much. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5766	I thank Ambassador Bašić. The word has Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5767	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed members of BiH, here, at the beginning of my presentation, I want to thank you first and foremost for being challenged, so to speak, for delivering this Special Report to try through this Special Report, at least I am experiencing it, to awaken the conscience of all BiH institutions on this very sensitive area. Powers of persons with special needs, persons with special needs, need to be cared for by society, cared for in one special way. Your observations and your recommendations best say that we don't have much sensitivity for such, so, and it's not your fault that you wrote it, especially not the ones to whom it refers that you had reason to write your observations on two and a half pages and write your prophecies on almost the same page. They are guilty of the institutions that you have counted in your recommendations, including this Parliamentary Assembly and all other institutions that each in a certain way, within the limits of its powers, has both the right and the obligation to deal with these issues. The other thing is that very often when we need to take responsibility for certain powers then we say - well, we're not in charge, someone else is in charge. However, the fact that we have too many authorities to address these issues is not the fault of those to whom this report applies, it is again our fault that we created, or some before us, I don't literally mean us sitting here today, who created this system in which everyone cares about the rights of these people. So I just said, the more we take care of them, the worse they get. And I don't agree with the grades of some colleagues who said they didn't have the funds. When we recently discussed the audit report of the BiH Institutions' Office, we could and could have concluded in a certain way, I hope, through the debate that the funds are very well available, because there could be no such non-domestic management of these funds, there could be no such wasteful behaviour in many areas. Where there's funds, that's the only thing that does it. I want to simply, here, support all your recommendations and ask my colleagues in the House to support this Special Report and the recommendations in this report. And let's try -- because you wrote it very politely too -- you've already repeated the same observations several times, the same grades -- that at least one of these many points in the next period, we'll take it off this list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5768	The word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5769	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to point out on this occasion that as far as the Ombudsman's report is concerned, I think the report is correct, that the Ombudsmans have really handled themselves like this, as I would say, with a professional approach to this problem. 84 The problem of disability at all is a global problem and I really must say that a little attention is paid, both in the RS and in the Federation of BiH, this extremely difficult problem. We're a wartime country, so we have a large number of wartime military people, we have a large number of civilian war victims, I'm not talking about various labour injuries that absolutely didn't take place during wartime circumstances, postwar circumstances, etc. I know, since it's a fah, that the UN's International Labour Organization has done various research on labour injuries and that there are a huge number of labour injuries in these countries in transition where black markets are meant, where the gray economy, where unreported workers are, can indeed lead to a major controversy. I think this question deserves a very big one, as I would say, the thematic session and the Assembly of the RS and the Federation, as well as at Parliament level. A perfectly normal colleague, Majkić, said it is now in the jurisdiction of the entity, and we will see it as such, although the Ombudsman and said and quoted the laws of the RS, the Federation, the Brcko District and all that is fine, but we can only give one support here to the issue of solving the problem of disabled people. I would like to point out very strongly here, let's say, that I commend the legislation of the RS. Since we had an incompetent Law on the Protection of Civil Victims of War there last year, the RS Assembly adopted the Law on the Protection of Civil Victims of War and gave the best way to resolve it. The Law on Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia then stipulates that in the context of this problem, in relation to the care of these disabled people, public institutions are also being placed in nursing homes as health institutions. It's one significant motive that can be of benefit to all kinds of people with disabilities. So, the disabled is disabled, we can't share it by which it's a category, but these nursing homes could be very beautiful, as I would say, places where our disabled people, especially those with disabilities, could be fostered. As for this other person's help and care, she's really to say really miserable, so are the small amounts for other people's help and the care of the disabled that it's meaningless to talk about. Unfortunately, indeed in this moment, as we have said, the situation is economically such that we do not have the means to allocate for such purposes, but my colleague Lozančić said well that we could find funds for such purposes, so I think we really need to take this issue seriously. As far as I'm concerned, the Special Report of the Ombudsman Institution means, I think he's correct. At this point, it is really inconclusive because indeed all these issues that fall into question are the meanings of social, social protection, work, etc., but at this point I want to say that we, as MPs of this Parliament, really need to get involved at all levels in resolving the issues of these persons with disabilities and of course we need to respect the conventions on the rights of persons with disabilities of the UN as well as any other conventions relating to persons with disabilities. It means commitment both entities and states etc. And we really need to have one great sensitivity to all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5770	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. _________(?) 85 [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5773	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, I really thank you for your sincere discussion and for what has been asked as a question of our intentions as the Ombudsman's Institution. Our only intention was to share the burden that we carry with us, which is the parties that come to us with these problems, with all the institutions in BiH. And we had a dilemma about how to cover it, whether it's a competent institution; when you put in competent institutions, it's all and nothing, and we needed it to be concrete. The reasons why we did, what is our legal basis for such recommendations? First of all, BiH is also a subject of international responsibility in the ratification of conventions, which has already been specifically spoken about, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the responsibility has been assumed in this parliament by an act of ratification. Not only those conventions, but the Conventions against Tortores and all other international conventions which, in this very way, have been presented, and we have indeed sought concrete cases to support each and every one of our claims, we have in some way created a legal basis for ourselves. The second legal basis is the Ministry Act where it clearly states that the Ministry of Civil Affairs plays a role in co-ordination. A skillful or clumsyly defined role of coordination, a different interpretation, but the fact is that this parliament never gets in direct form a report from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so you cannot even know what the Ministry of Civil Affairs is facing in the coordination process. We had a chance to communicate. So that's another reason. The third reason is the UN Committee's recommendation. You know that we delivered reports, periodic reports to all committees, everyone pointed out and all said by the Member State, the Member State was the one who ratified the convention, and it was said that some common principles must be done. We are not unaware of our complex structure and this is a question of double arches, it's not just social protection, it's a spectrum of rights, a domain of labour rights, at the end of the residence, maybe for some disabled person who's in BiH and citizenship, if he's a stranger, etc. So we can't exclude the responsibility of the BiH state level and say that's just a question of the domain of social protection. On the matter of the Labour Protection Act. What about the employees of BiH institutions, with you? Do we have a law on protection at work that will apply to us? Now, if one of us gets hurt on these stairs, we don't have a law on protection at the BiH level? So, there was no evil intention for all, behind everything that really stands for our subjects and concrete claims. It was still a matter of financial resources. Economic, social rights according to European Court and Council of Europe's practice are not absolute rights such as the prohibition of discrimination, these are progressive rights. So, we didn't say tomorrow it has to be realized, but the will of the state has to be shown that for a certain period, three, five years will be done and what will be done. It's that 86 progression to show which segment of law will be satisfied in a financial sense, because we know that these rights cost a lot, but the problem is that we don't see it. And our intensity was to do more, to recommend to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and to organise a debate with them and entity authorities, to see how to coordinate, to establish common principles, not to receive complaints, to be treated differently, which limits citizens' movements, and to deny in some way rights. And regarding the part of western Bosnia, we are aware of the complex human rights situation in western Bosnia and we have talked to the Prime Minister of the UN-San canton about the opening of the field office, but the failure to adopt the BiH institution's budget has blocked us in this process, so that we have made all preparations to open the office, to be closer to the citizens, not only there, it refers to Bijeljina and Foč, because we are blocked in the process of our work. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5774	Are you giving up the discussion or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5775	No, it won't take you two minutes. Here's my promise, watch over there. The Honorable Chairman, therefore, I was on the committee responsible, when we had this report from the Ombudsman, proposing something and it should be put into practice. And why is that? That every commission that has jurisdiction and which runs the sector or other areas of our institutions, here are ours, so it was about ombudsmans, ministries, agencies, to organise special thematic sessions and to discuss all the committees with these interested, and then with these conclusions, recommendations, our recommendations, come to Parliament. Dake, that would be one new method where we could simplify these some, not simplify under the alleged signs that we're not interested in, on the contrary, improve but simplify the procedure, improve the work of all these interested. Because you know, if you get a recommendation, here's what's going on here. It's good that you've addressed the recommendations. Who are they going to? Well, to those most responsible functions that will never be realized. And what have we done? We're spinning in a circle. I do not want Parliament to continue with this practice and to work, if there were ever any things, but to have committees responsible for the reports of our institutions, ministries, agencies and others not in that rank organise the thematic sessions on that lower, narrow circle of people. In a small number, it's easier to agree, so all the things this Parliament can do, accept, propose, so I'm going to say make a commitment, let's do it once with that practice. I said I'd take less than two minutes and I'd do it exactly like that. So, it would be good if this method, not to go out with a report that has 200 pages of everything, or with this disability that is really difficult, people, but the question is what it can do, whether it is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, whether it is Parliament's jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5776	I thank Jovičić. There are no more applications for discussion. 87 We move to the 24th point of the agenda: Ad. 24. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2010 22. 3. 2011 The BiH Appeals Office submitted a report on the work and, in accordance with Article 49 (8) of the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. The financial and budgetary committee responsible has delivered Opinion 26. Seven. 2011 The Commission accepted the Report, without the proposed conclusions contained in section 16. Reports. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dušanka Majkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5778	I want to make a short one come down just to make a suggestion of conclusions because we have a report on the work of the office to discuss complaints that speaks about all the problems in public procurement and I want to say that it's a hot potato that's left us with the Council of Ministers in the last three years. Parliament also dealt with the kancelarija of Appeals, such as BHRT, or the Public Procurement Agency. Therefore, this report does not only touch on the issues of the work of two key public procurement institutions, but also on the issues of work within the Office itself to consider complaints. So, we have, you've seen that in the Opinion of Conclusions offered by the chairman of the Board of Appeals, we have several points that are disputed by the other members of this office. Given that the House of Representatives cannot now analyse why it is disputed and why the chairman has one opinion and the other, I propose that a report be adopted on the work of the Office to discuss complaints without the proposed conclusions and I propose a new conclusion in this regard: 'Because of the many years of problems expressed in the work of two key public procurement institutions, the Public Procurement Agency and the Office for the Review of Appeals, the House of Representative of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to form an ad hoc commission that will analyse the situation in these two institutions and propose a solution to overcome problems in their work. In the working group, along with members of the Council of Ministers and those institutions, include three representatives of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5779	Thank you. The first deputy chairman Milorad Živković appears for the word, and Ismet Dervoz should be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5780	Thank you, Chairman. 88 colleagues and fellow MPs, we have been here for several years discussing reports of the Office of Appeals, and each time we realize that at least 3.5 billion KM has been captured in that office. Niko one is considering harming the economy and economic growth in BiH for such captured money. So, one observation is that here is other than the percentages that are mentioned and the number of objects that have been done and the undisputed effect that the Office has made in the last year – to indicate the amount of funds that are trapped in these cases themselves, because they would have more, to say, feelings about how much money they are being trapped by the fact that this office has not done any work. It would have to mean that we have in this report and the amount of funds that are currently trapped by the events in the office, which... that's what he's doing. That's one thing. The second thing was unusual and I read a lot of reports, but in one report by one agency at the level of the State or the Office of Appeals, there were the following sentences: 'Considering the number of complaints received, which is the largest in the region, and the other objective reasons why the Board of Appeal could not have affected, the results of the 2010 work would not have been achieved in that area without the continued over-time work of the Chair of the Board of Appeal, which has not been paid for that so far, and without the use of the annual rest of the chairman's Office of Appeals for 2010, for the reasons why the Council of Ministers missed the 2010 Council of Ministers' appointment of the Vice-President of the Board of Appeal, noting that, for the same and similar reasons, the chair of the Office of the Board of Appeal could not have used the annual rest in 2006, 2007, which would have been necessary.' I think it's a little inappropriate for the chairman of the Board of Appeal to write in this report how he worked overtime, how he wasn't paid for it, and as a result of his work it was what he was doing. You could only indicate that the conclusions adopted here in Parliament were not respected. 4. In 2009, where it was ordered by this Parliament to chair the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, to solve these problems, and not to report that your credit and overtime have been increased in... For this reason, it could be a joke and now suggest the conclusion that you first resolve the problem of overtime fees under the BiH Labour Act and then take an annual vacation from 2010. It's unnecessary for you to write that in your report. I think it is enough to write that these recommendations that are from here, and the conclusions of this 2009 Parliament that were adopted -- are not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5781	Thank you. The word has Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go, in a certain way, in everything that Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Živković have said, I would like to remind myself of Article 49(5) of the Law on Public Procurement, which says: 'The Board of Appeal shall consist of three members who are elected from the order of recognised management experts and 89 or administrative proceedings, having a status equal to the status of independent judges, incompatible with any other direct or indirect permanent or occasional duties, with the exception of academic activities'. So, the assumption is that in this number and the number of jobs that gentlemen from this office couldn't go on vacations, but they were in conflict of interest, so they had time to organise a seminar. Let's say one of the members of the Board of Appeals in the administrative law order organized paid seminars with one private agency for, no less, than suppliers. So I guess this isn't about a lack of time, it's about an unscheduled time to carry out those duties that are priority. It is said that a number of penalties which have been imposed and criminal charges are indeed amazing and... in more than 1,800 complaints received, two sentences have been issued and only five criminal charges have been filed. It says in the report that one-third of the Office's solutions for examining complaints are not listed in the report that one-third of the Office's solutions for examining complaints are falling in the BiH Court of Justice. This is very worrying if we consider that he is made by experts in the field of urn law. The office also argues that 97% of the complaints received during 2010, were resolved within the prescribed deadline. I'm just going to say that the practice can also determine that there are written clues that some of the cases last for a few months. I will only point out one example: an extremely long case of appeal against a hospital, where the complainant declared a complaint against the amount of the tender documentation fee. Therefore, not against the technical specification or against the decision on the selection of the more expensive bidder, but against the amount for tender documentation, which is allowed. The žalitelj has the right to express such a complaint, but it is truly amazing that citizens have to wait a few months for the Board of Appeal to launch and resolve such an uncomplicated and simple administrative dispute. It is known that the ruling conflict between the longtime chairman's office and other members, also that the government and conflict between the chairman and the Public Procurement Agency. That's why I'm proposing next. Unlike Mrs. Majkić, I do not think that this Work Report should be accepted, but should be returned to work where certain data will be included, possibly on firms most often complained and received complaints, on contract bodies most often referred to by the Office for negative measures, and to include evidence confirming that the Office had made decisions within 15 days or, in justified cases, within 45 days. It is also necessary to investigate the emergence of conflicts of interest within the Board of Appeals and the background of conflicts within the Office and between the Office and the Public Procurement Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5783	Thank you. The word is Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 90 Here are just a few words since we discussed the report of the Board of Appeal on the Commission for Finance and Budget. I suggest that this report be adopted. I took the discussion, I didn't want to replicate, but here's a few just sentences that I might consider a replica of these previous speakers. So we can't escape here from the fact that 1,831 complaints were received in 2010, which is an increase of 25%, that almost all 1,794 cases were solved in the same period, more than 22.8%, which says the Board of Appeal was doing its job. But here the question arises, which is why there are more complaints than there were in the previous period, or why the Office has so many complaints. And I think we have the answer to that question and we've already considered it on several occasions. So basically here's the problem with the Public Procurement Act. Here I want to remind us again that we have had a certain part of the amendments to this Public Procurement Act, we have some preparation, but in the discussions that we have had before, we all felt that one radical procedure should be within this Public Procurement Act and that it is precisely the result of this number of complaints, this much work of the Office of Appeals and the inability to go on vacation, here is how Mr Živković observed here. But here we have seen, if we have carefully read, and that a small intervention in 2010 in the Law on Public Procurement, where the Court of Justice of BiH was given the opportunity to act on an urgent procedure, has accelerated the activity of these complaints: so after the adoption of the Office's solution, the Court dealt with it more quickly. Let's not open the topic now, because it's not the subject of the Public Procurement Act, what's going on there, which is why so many complaints, whether there's any crime, whether there's any racketeering, whether there are any other negative things, but all of which we can, I think, remove and speed up this process if we adopt a new law on public procurement that will be far better, better and changed, precisely in those directions that will speed up the completion of that tender procedure and reduce the number of appeal procedures. Here's a thank you, and once again I suggest that we support this report of the Office, and we are working on getting as fast as possible the new law, which we will consider here, about public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5785	Is there anyone else answering for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5786	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5787	Here you go. I'm asking you to give it a try in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5788	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, here, I will try as soon as possible to give at least answers to some of the questions that have been asked here. First, the number of complaints. The number of complaints you saw in the report, 1,831 complaints received last year, I'd like to say that since 2006, since the Office has been working, we've been recording a constant increase in the number of complaints. 91 That year, for example in 2006, there were 600 and some complaints and here every year we had a rise and we came up with 1,831 complaints. As for the number of complaints resolved, 2006 was resolved somewhere around 160 complaints and last year, you saw, over 1,790 complaints were resolved. The number of complaints received in BiH is far the largest in the region. I have set an example here in the Report, for example, of the Republic of Austria as members of the EU, since BiH law is similar to Austrian law. The federal authority, a similar federal authority in the Republic of Austria, had only about 250 complaints last year. These 250 complaints were resolved by 14 Senates, 14 councils of three members each. So every council in Austria had 10 to 15 complaints a year. One Council of the Office in this series of six members has solved only, so 1,700 and some complaints, so you can see what the disproportion is. I have data for all countries in the region and now let me not tell you, Serbia, for example, they had over 1,000 complaints, Slovenia had about 420. Now, the issue of the annual vacation that was mentioned, I'd like to say, here's what this is all about. The Internal Organisation Regulation, which was developed with EU experts, provided for a provision that, since there were no vice-presidential offices at the time,... the chairman may authorise one of the members to replace him in the event of his absence for any reason. At the express request of the BiH Ministry of Justice, it is required that the provision be deleted from the Regulation, meaning that no one can be authorised to replace the chairman under any circumstances. And the Council of Ministers accepted that, and we had to install it in the Rules. Since we have intervened several times in the annual reports, we have pointed out this problem,... in fact, trying to overcome the problem by the latest amendments to the Administration Act, which came into force in early 2010, introducing the possibility of appointing the Vice-President's Office to consider complaints and immediately after that, as soon as the law came into force, I asked the Council of Ministers to appoint the Vice-President in accordance with the law. I have repeatedly sent written urens to resolve this issue, but here to this day it has not been resolved, and the consequence is that in the Public Procurement Act we have an explicit provision that within five days must be followed by each complaint. And if that complaint is not followed within five days, the possibility of a contract being concluded by the contracting authority with all the consequences it carries shall be opened. And that's why I couldn't use that law provided for by law like all the other members of the office. The absence of the chairman's office, let's say that this holiday was used, the whole procedure would continue indefinitely. Here, we now have one object worth about 14 million KM. In this case, the rapporteur, who is one of the members of the Board of Appeals, is on vacation and the subject cannot be resolved because he will not come from vacation, and the other members will not be present without a rapporteur, you know. And it's all negative for the whole system. Next, I listed more in the report... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] He's in line, his name is Kasim Bajramović, meaning another member of the Bosniak people's order. And that item stands for several months because of that, among other things. Another problem that negatively affects 92 to get objects to stand longer than we should be is that we have a decision to make when we vote: that we have three members to vote for a decision, three 'against', and then all of this has to go through from week to week until some of the members change their minds. Because to make a decision, it takes four members to vote for it. That's why I've been proposing a few changes...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5790	I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5791	Here's another sentence, two. Given all these problems, we are, in fact, the Office of Reviewing Appeals has proposed an amendment to all the few members that would significantly improve this situation. We delivered it to the Public Procurement Agency, but none of it they wanted to accept and, unfortunately, we are in a situation that within existing solutions we have to deal with what we have. In addition, I would add that the Federation government has proposed a very good solution to the introduction of a 5% deposit, however, the Public Procurement Agency has not accepted it either. And indeed, without changing the laws that would fix this situation, we can't expect improvement, because this is how it breaks in one very bad way, and I have just stated in this report that they have been lost to dozens of millions of KM due to the poor moves of the Public Procurement Agency in the present period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5792	Thank you again. We're closing the debate. Crossover to the 25th point of the agenda: Ad. 25. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010 I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Asim Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5794	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen in charge, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the SDA Club, considering the report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, has reached certain conclusions and we have delivered this home in 93 writing form. It is my duty as Chief of the Club to present these suggestions to this esteemed home. ' Conclusion No. 1 The Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance shall be in charge of that, in accordance with the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH and the Statute of the Agency, until the expiry of the period referred to in Article 61(2) of the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH, it shall be 15. 8. In 2011, ensure the adoption of all necessary documents for the implementation of the accreditation of higher education institutions and inform this home. Conclusion No. 2 The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of reviewing the eligibility of fees in the Decision on the amount of monthly fees for members of the Management Board of the Agency (e.g. here and gave: 800 marks have a president, 700 deputies and 600 members) and that compensation for the work of members of the Management Board is calculated at the held session. Conclusion 3 The Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, together with the Agency’s management and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, shall define a single financial framework for accreditation.’ Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5795	Thank you. The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5796	Thank you, Chairman. So you see, if a man were to analyze the report himself, which, on the subject of consideration, this report would probably satisfy some form of report, who read it. But this report has mirrored one very strange, if this is least said, the strange work of an institution, or the Management Board of the Agency, one of so many important agencies, and so much important Management Board. I was so interested in vocalizing to see what the board of directors was doing. So here's what I'm saying, for those of you who haven't read it, I'm just saying that the 2010 Activity Report is less than three pages away. On just over one page are the agendas, five sessions held in one year. On less than two pages, the Management Board said in the reporting period it reached the following conclusions, so let me read the progress. The Governing Board adopted the minutes of the 6th session, the Management Board adopted the minutes of the 7th session, the Management Board adopted the minutes of the 8th session, the minutes of the 9th session were adopted, the Management Board adopted the minutes of the 10th session. So, all five sessions: the records were adopted. The board of directors took note. The board of directors postponed the hearing. The Management Board has postponed for the next session of the debate. The Management Board has authorised the Agency's management to, see how serious this is, in direct contact with the members of the Management Board, subsequently agree to appoint two representatives of the Management Board for Study Travel. 94 I really needed to stress this, given the importance of the Agency's institution and of course the importance of the Management Board. So I, who was in the Board for the appointment of board members, and here we have today on the agenda amongst other things, and we have spent much more time conducting the procedure and disputing the competition, and interviews, and the rank-list, and a statement here, and, etc., much more than this Management Board has devoted attention to this report, although I don't really have anything against the report itself, immediately tell you, but this, I ask you to pay attention that one institution should not work, no matter what specific weight the institution is talking about, and I will specifically say institutions related to higher education. With so many academic mafias in BiH, we have nothing on university meadows, in small towns of three or four universities with no normatives, standards, not to mention accreditation, etc. – that the Management Board, instead of working 24 hours, holds five sessions in a year and makes these decisions or decisions as I have read to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5797	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5798	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is a part of what I thought to say about this very unserious report, which we here in Parliament, I think is written with a dose of underestimation, believing that we here are completely dependent on such members of the Management Board, which, unfortunately, are nationalally fully balanced, ethnically fully defined and ethically irresponsible when it comes to such an important segment of society. So we can't find any Falinka here when it comes to the national balance. To contribute to the jurisdiction of this Management Board. It is apparent that the members of the Management Board did not interfere in their responsibilities, that part of these responsibilities, such as the Statute and the rest had been adopted previously, that in the Report... of the 22 points, as they had held at the five sessions, had five adoptions of the minutes and five points in various ways, that they had not made any suggestions, no suggestions, no suggestions, no initiatives, no public debates. At a time when BiH... through this important agency which is also called 'for the insurance of quality', as ironic as it sounds, watching this report, then I regret to say that this is exactly what it is in our higher education and how it is here. In the reporting period, according to counterpart Hadžiahmetović, there are no suggestions or conclusions, recommendations. They only have that they have adopted the agenda, the records and probably discussed the point of 'various'. Due to this complete state and very important things in which nothing has been said here – that we have deadlines, that we have obligations to the international community, that we have deadlines and obligations primarily towards young people in BiH... – I suggest that as soon as possible, and I also think at the last session of Parliament the initiative was launched, here I propose that a public debate be organised on higher education in BiH, including the Law on Higher Education and Work of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. 95 I think this is a regrettable fact in which the highest bodies of this BiH are located when it comes to higher education. And I can't agree with a report like this from which nothing can be seen, that hasn't said anything and that shows... that for five held sessions they probably received a neat 12 refund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5799	The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5800	Dear President, honourable MPs, guests, indeed, this report is a refreshment to today's session. I'm not really an expert, and I don't have a great deal of experience with MPs, but when I saw this, I saw that our higher education and institutions have top-level personnel when they make a report like this without any methodology and without any explanation. What's five sessions, come on five sessions, I was wondering if they're paying them at the session or at their arrival. Then I probably realized by some intuition that every month the board of directors is being paid. Ten members of the Management Board, as I understand ten members of the Management Board, you have, what, 12-13 members of the Agency. There's obviously a terrible dysfunction here between the Agency and the board of directors. That's really funny. But what made me more ticklish to see what the Agency was like, I opened a website. Open the Agency website where you will find two columns of two types of documents: documents in preparation and completed documents. You will see that the documents have been in preparation for the analysis for three years, and of these documents, which are the main and essential document for which this Agency has been established – which is the accreditation of our higher education institutions. We currently have 135,000 students in BiH, 37 higher education institutions. The diplomats in every corner of BiH are also valid at that university where they say the bus should stop for half an hour (not to eat kevapi, but to take a diploma), as well as at the university which has a quality and which, I would say, structure... I personally don't know what to vote for here, this isn't a report. I can only support and suggest one conclusion that we have analysed and brought, so that at least we can do something and help these mental people, professors, because here are all professors, there are many and regular professors, and I am a regular professor and I am a little ashamed of what I am a regular professor and, as part of this report, I propose and conclude: 'The Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance has been tasked to ensure that, in accordance with the Framework Law on Higher Education of BiH and the Statute of the Agency until the end of the period referred to in Article 2 of Article 2 (62) – that is, in fact, this 15.8.2011, what the MPs from the SDA have said – ensure that all necessary documents for the implementation of the accreditation of higher education institutions, and that this House is informed." I've also checked on the situation at entity level by chance; in us as far as the Federation at canton level, absolutely nothing has been done. No health or higher education institution has even applied for accreditation, which is an even more serious problem, as those who have done accreditation in the developed world say that for at least two to three years it is necessary to harmonise all regulations and to correct all anomalies, or supplement them in order to... accreditation. Thank you. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5801	The word has Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5802	So just to add, I'm talking about the institution that I submitted this morning's parliamentary initiative to examine the effectiveness of the work so far and the justification of the existence of such institutions. And just a few details, so you can round up the picture. So the institution spent 1,740,000 budgets in 2010. There are 18 employees, 35 systematiced workers. 18 employees, here's the report. He's got a board of directors and ten members. So 70,000 marks a year cost the board of directors. He's got a director and two deputies. The director has been in office four times since the beginning of the year and means the institution is being led by a deputy. That was the reason for me to file a request like this, because it's obvious that when I tried to figure out who was actually behind this, it turns out that no one was even standing. That they're actually about issues of fundamental importance, which is why this institution is founded, and they're not talking. It is very difficult to meet, very difficult to agree on a agenda that will achieve common agreement. So we have a hybrid institution that has a defined jurisdiction that it does not hold, which does not prevent the director from having 100,000 in the most beautiful castle in Banja Luka, which is intended for embassies – they rented space. Gone means from what the RS government gave them 326 squares for free, they hired the most beautiful villa in Banja Luka, and they didn't mind buying also a representative rolling stock, the director of the train, a significant institution, and driving in the car. So until we start talking about institutions that way, we're not gonna do anything. Then we'll have a budget and we'll have enough money for every institution they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5803	There is no doubt that such a report on the work of the Management Board deserves critical consideration, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there would be no self-critics against us at all. These people on the board of directors didn't bring the storks here. Someone chose them and suggested them. The word, i.e. the replica has Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5804	Well, you see, Mrs. Majkić was talking about the Agency. I just want to remind you: here is the Management Board, or report on the work of the Management Board on the agenda. If there are any objections to the work of the Agency itself, which is not the subject of today's debate, then we will address it to the Governing Board. Because it's the board of directors who should take care of the things you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5805	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5806	So I know exactly what we're talking about today. But you've seen the report on the work of the board of directors. Doesn't it make sense that the board of directors analyzed the Agency's work? How come there's not one sentence in that? Isn't it logical that he leaves this home to request the Council of Ministers to request a report on the Agency's work, as this does not contain a report on the work of the Management Board. So I'm saying we don't have full information. The board of directors didn't do anything. We need proof that the Agency didn't do anything either. We need a report on the Agency's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5807	Šefik Džaferović applied for the discussion. Excuse me, Mr. Ljubić, second vice president.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5808	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, I read the report, I have to be honest with all the reports that have been discussed today I haven't read but this one wasn't hard to read. And I just can't believe that these are actually the results of the Board's work, what's written in the report. So that's me, here's the thing, amazing. And, if that were, in fact, their entire work content, then I wouldn't support either the existing payment system or the one that suggested a respected SDA representative on behalf of the club, because I don't really know what would be paid here. So I'm saying I'm still keeping in reserve that this is just a faulty report, and that they were doing something, something more than that. However, I want to say here that the fact that the board of directors or the entire Agency have worked or haven't yet worked for me is not an argument to give up, to say the least, an institution that should introduce order into the area. And that's what I'm saying as a university professor who I've also doctored and become a teacher before democratic changes and before the war, which is, for me, a difference. What happens in higher education in BiH is, I would say, for the future of people in this country, no matter what state form it will have tomorrow, and for the people who will live here, much worse than any form of corruption we face. I'd even say a lot worse than the war that happened to us. Because this all happened, it happened once, it has consequences of course for families who lost their loved ones for the rest of their lives, but these educational failures that are happening today will have consequences for this country for the next 100 years at least, for the generations that will come here. And this area needs to be dealt with seriously, and I support an absolute conclusion that has been proposed here by the distinguished representative to open an urgent public debate on education. Because today I don't really want to publicize these institutions of science and university, etc., in any way separate them from the others, because I know that there is no quality in it all. But when we look at the opening of these various private colleges, and already today, they say, open university. So where is it? You walk past this abandoned house, and then you walk up to that university. These people get diplomas there. Colleges are sometimes completed for a year, etc. Now, look, in an open world, so where will tomorrow be free flow and people and goods, etc., these people will get in touch with those who have finished Kembridž, Oksford, Harvard, etc., rising with dozens or hundreds of Nobel laureates. And if that doesn't get in the way of it, these people tomorrow won't even be able to apply those inventions they invented, so understand their instructions, let alone be in 98 normal competencies with that world. And of all this, I don't know what we should be dealing with here at all, about the report to be decided, etc., so of all this, I think the most important thing is that we have a quick public debate in this country about this area, because I'm afraid we're going to do... to the disabled generations that are coming. Because these people who are finishing colleges in a year's time for the next half-year will finish their master's degree and become professors. I'm not talking about these respected people here because there are certain people, I know some of them, who have become doctors and teachers in the past system when the criteria have been respected and in no way am I bringing them into line with these things, but believe me, I'm going to make a little joke here, and more seriously. I was a minister in several governments, etc., etc. Then when I saw who everything became minister in this country, etc., and how many there are, I said don't call me no more ministers, please nice. And now that I've said it, I've turned it on, don't call me professor anymore. If you want to name me, name and last name, just call me Doctor, I'm a doctor of medicine, there's a need, at least, six years I've spent, so hard work, etc. Therefore, everything in this country has been devalued, but this high-school devaluation that happens – if it does not get in the way of haste, it will leave the consequences of a generation that will live here for the next 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5809	So we heard it wasn't black before 1990. The Republic has Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5810	Chairman, here's everything I can say hello to you. I'm replicating, I don't know who, I don't know who. The question again or itself or Mr. Šefik Džaferović, with the respect of Mr. Džaferović and all other members of the Constitutional Commission. I have an opinion, so I don't know if you have it, where it is said: 'The Commission unanimously adopted the report on the work of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010. 'years.' As far as I know and I'm giving myself the right to be wrong, but that Constitutional Commission has nine members sitting here. ... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5813	The word has the Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5814	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the report of the Management Board of the Agency and the Constitutional Commission supported this report as it is. So we have the report as it is and he's talking about the state of higher education. We are not as the Constitutional Commission declared what we are discussing today, which is about the state of higher education, the reasons and the problems that lead to such reports, but we have supported this report as it is. And that's the point. Probably, please, as I speak, I would ask you not to enter my word, this has really gone beyond any measure, let's act collegiately and please, chair, not to interrupt each other in the discussion. The Law on Higher Education when he was editing this area for a long time and was widely debated and we have found it difficult to agree on the establishment of a state agency with its powers and especially its relationship with entity and cantonal agencies. For two years, we extended the deadline for the accreditation of universities and colleges. This job hasn't been done to this day. And I am now taking this opportunity to suggest that these agenda points be removed today, that the chairman of the Board of Directors and Directors of the Agency be called and that we immediately hold a debate on the state of higher education for this report, if you want to talk about higher education. And that is the subject. Why haven't the BiH colleges accredited to this day? We've extended the deadline by two years. What's going on? Given the obstruction and the state, and you'll hear, look, don't let me say, I don't want to defend anyone, let people come and talk here, so you'll see what all the problems are, what's going on and what are all sorts of obstructions. You know, we have kids finishing up, people actually, young people and girls finish colleges, and they don't know if they have a degree, if they're four years old, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. That companies aren't prepared and subjects who hire people with their rules about what to do with such people. The Ministry did, and it didn't issue any instructions. Let's call these two people here or the complete board of directors, the minister, and then talk about it. This is a great opportunity, and I suggest, if the House adopts it, that we take this item off the agenda today and discuss this agenda point with the presence of these people, the chairman of the board of directors, and let him come here today and say, if he isn't here, and the director. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5815	Petar Kunić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5816	I know we've lost our concentration and we're tired, but this question still deserves at least a few sentences. So, what's this all about? It is a catastrophic situation of higher education in BiH as a whole. I agree with Mr. Ljubić. I'm the only one watching that nigga. In fact, six private universities were founded in the RS alone 100. The universities, or universities, work in local communities, in Travnik, for example, I have information that they work in Travnik in a local community, a university. So, not to say, that I don't hold here a lecture on what knowledge is in the modern sense, that it's a basic resource, and that in fact, those communities that lose knowledge and colleges, or higher education, will die out. It is of special importance to every smallest community, to every smallest nation, if you will. But what happened here? There's been an illegal way of setting up private colleges. So, an illegal way, both in the Federation, and in the cantons, and in the RS. I fought there for two years on some advice, I just couldn't do anything. Why? Well, because from the political top, people are connected directly to those privates who start these colleges, or universities. So they're directly involved. And the condition is that one professor teaches three or four classes and even more. It's a fact... a sales diploma. So, it all comes down to the "sales of diploma" syntagma. And then what we're going to expect, what my predecessors said, what we're going to expect in due course, I wouldn't say 100 years, but 40, 50 years, if we stop, because high education is effected on the long term. And we will have, indeed, but no one is getting hold of this job which is one of the most important, so the priority issue in BiH is higher education. It was founded in the Middle Ages, and the middle, you know, far later. I could speak now, I don't know how much about it, but I would like to accept this proposal to hold a public debate on higher education within this Parliament and to make it, in a way, more visible to alert the public and to discuss these issues. Because there's all the crime you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5817	Thank you. The word is Vesna Krstovic-Krstović-Spremo, and I would ask my colleague from the House of Peoples not to defocus SDS MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5818	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would, here's exactly what I wanted to say, here's what the predecessors said before me and Professor Kunić and Professor Ljubić and all that. I would not talk about the Management Board, it is said in itself enough, but I believe that the BiH Parliament is the very institution that has to deal with this problem terribly. The situation in our higher education is catastrophic. As MPs, we must make our full contribution to resolve the situation in the best possible way because it really is a flood of this number, I can't say, I have nothing against private universities, so, but a huge number of abnormally-verified universities, then the issue of diplomas that we all know are getting in these days. We are very competent to discuss this issue. And I believe that the proposal by my colleague Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic is highly constructive, to hold a thematic large session where they would give me their contribution to resolving this situation. Dr. Ljubić was absolutely right when he said it was really embarrassing because we're producing some personnel. Who needs such personnel with diplomas who can't, I mean, go away from their local community, which 101 says Professor Kunić, right, so we have to make a stronger contribution to all this. And I'm really trying to get us all involved in this stabilisation process, so high-school situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5819	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 26th point of the agenda: Ad. 26. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Dušanka Majkić's proposal from the 5th session of the House to discuss the BiH Law Department's work report for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010, which reads: "A report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2010 will be returned to BiH's Attorney General with the aim of reaching agreement between the Advocates and the Deputy Advocates" You've received a match report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. Today we vote in the second round on the adoption of this conclusion, so if we adopt it, the Attorney General's Office's work report for period 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010, he returns to the BiH Law Department, and unless we adopt this conclusion, we are simply voting on the adoption of the Report because we concluded the debate at the 5th session. So there's no debate here. Moving to the 27th point of the agenda: Ad. 27. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5822	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Same case as last session. Is there anyone from the BiH Prosecutor's Office? Is there a prosecutor, a deputy? I suggest two things. The first is, immediately to declare that I will vote against this report. The fifth 102 years repeats the report in segment 2. - about war crimes. All that you did this forward or back or I don't know how either, you know that the problems of this country until the war's past is resolved – it's impossible to move on. And here you have cited what we have already covered the public with, and us, and the media and the prosecution, in this matter the Serbian people, the RS; the victims, whose representative I am, have been injured by the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And I don't take any more words. So, I do not accept your report as an individual, as a representative of the victims, as a man addressed by a vast number of people – citizens of the RS, because on this point, not that you are selective, not that you are unilateral, but you have simply done nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5823	Niko Lozančić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5824	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, so I must say that I have no particular objection to the content of the information that we, in fact, can not accept, in essence, is one of the legal obligations of the Prosecutor's Office to inform us about what it is taking under its jurisdiction, in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. What I'm missing here, now I have to say, here I'm glad that there are authorized persons of the prosecution here, here's some assessment of myself, I asked one representative question this morning, now I'm going to try a little bit differently, maybe the same matter present and ask how much is possible, here, today to inform this House of Representatives. The BiH Prosecutor's Office in the Prosecutor's Office is the most important prosecutorial institution in BiH, and in this area it should be, in order to express myself as a folk, cream, is it, the top of the summit, something all these other prosecutorial institutions in entities, cantons in the Federation, etc. the ability to use experience, practice, etc., in order to ensure that the rule of law works in full capacity and that this very responsible duty is carried out in the best possible way. The latest amendments, reforming criminal legislation to this BiH institution have been given extremely high powers. I know the public is also divided, whether it's justifiable or unwarranted, whether we're up to it, so to speak, to one such system, but here's 10 years of this Penal Procedure Act being implemented, and we can already conclude that we have some experience. What's to me, here's a real introduction to point out, which is worrying to me, we've been in the past four or five years, maybe a few years there and there, we have a situation that... in that false institution, the leaders are leaving. Let me say it out loud not leaving after the term of office, not leaving after retirement, not leaving on their own free will, to say so, but leaving or here's the last case of suspension of the chief prosecutor, and his predecessor is under, let me put it this way, very mysterious circumstances before the time he left the post. What is worrying, or is the choice of people on that very, very, very important and responsible and sensitive duty is bad so it has to go before time or there is some, well, now that's what worries me if this is also first worrying, or there are some informal centres of power that the chief prosecutors so, if so, then the entire institution is holding in their hands, they're asking for something that we in public and these ordinary mortals don't know, so when they don't meet those 103 demands then they have to leave before the time of that position. Perhaps a little too harshly, however, what I had the opportunity to inform myself through the media, unfortunately here is the most, about the reasons for leaving or the temporary distance from Mr. Barašin's chief prosecutor's office is terrifying. It's scary to me as a citizen that someone was listening, so I heard, we'll see if it's true or not, that someone was illegally listening to the chief prosecutor in this country. If it's possible for the attorney general to do this, well, I can think of what these other mortals can wait for. And the bigger the tragedy: this illegal video is later used as an argument for the prosecution's suspension, if that's true. So, that is, we are in a very sensitive period of building trust and building the institutions of this country and these are sensitive issues in which in the most harsh way possible the integrity of these institutions is being torn down and, anyway, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. I would like on my part to mean here to support the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, to support it completely independently, impartially and without any pressure, and especially without this kind of pressure that I was talking about, works in the interest of all the citizens of this country. Well, I don't know how sensitive the questions are and how many questions you can give me today. Anyway, here's to you and your other colleagues in the D.A.'s office the only thing we can, on this side of Parliament, show support and if you have a request from Parliament that you lack some tools in your responsible struggle, here, I'd like you to suggest. That's not in this report either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5825	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Did you sign up for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5826	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5828	I'll be brief. Since there is no applicant for the report before us, and we do not know how all this will end in his case, and that the regrets that may be objective that subjective for a long time at the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office exist, not entering into it at all who is wrong, is the fact that there are problems there. The fact is that there have been some processes in recent years that have not been famously completed by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, I will say only some investigations, which I can say freely have not been in the jurisdiction of the BiH Criminal Law, are purely mounted trials against certain officials and even the SDS, the Party of Democratic Progress, HDZ, were all more or less hit. We believe that there really should be order in this area, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office must be free of any external influence and that it is necessary – it is not enough to make brief estimates and observations at this point alone – I think that without a professional, indeed, independent BiH judiciary, it is impossible for us to have a legal state. And the SDS MEPs' proposal is to hold a 104-thematic session of this parliament, which is the conclusion that we are proposing, where we will consider the situation of the BiH judiciary, which may be the problems they are facing too, and to bring together all the conclusions that would lead to the improvement of the situation of BiH's judiciary institutions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5829	Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5830	Chairman, I'm sorry, what I'm about to say is not a replica, but I don't know how it can be re-packed in a cellophane with a bow tie. But here, I've been closely following this current discussion, and I'm only talking about your proposal. We today had a proposal for an initiative on several points of the agenda, let's say colleague Zaimović launched an initiative on the work of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency, was the initiative of counterpart Pandurević on Public TV Service, etc. Here's the initiative. I would suggest that, given that our initiatives have a different treatment and usually go at the beginning of the session in the context of parliamentary issues, that you treat the initiatives as a proposal for conclusions or that they go through autism as initiatives, so that they do not potentially fall into some difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5831	We will plead to them as conclusions. Dušanka Majkić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5832	Just a proposal, so I think it's a good idea that the whole case with the BiH Court of Justice, the tužilaštvo's Office and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council is being considered at a joint session of both Parliament's houses and the whole story of the judiciary would be over. I don't think it's necessary to open the D.A.'s question today, and in a few days we'll be in a position to talk about these same things about the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, which is directly relying on the prosecution's problems. So, I think we should insist on the BiH Court report. I think that report had to come to the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm talking about 2010, here's the end of the seventh month. And I ask that this initiative be put to the conclusion: that both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council are under discussion at a joint session of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5833	Replica, Šefik Džaferović. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5834	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, there is no case of the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, there is information about the work of these institutions, which are based on the functioning of these institutions, to certain authorities in this country, and, among other things, on the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is information that we can take into account, we do not have the right to adopt it because of the well-known issues concerning the independence of the BiH judiciary or at least the need for this principle to be affirmed in BiH here. We can therefore take note of it, we can make certain remarks, and the aim of this information is to see what is not working in the system and what it is about Parliament and the Council of Ministers to help these institutions. This is where the representatives of the prosecution are present, I saw it, were present on the Constitutional Commission. We have every assumption that today we make those decisions that the House of Representatives makes in these situations. Try today, all the time through the debate, to issue a package called the BiH judiciary and bring it here in a debate like this, I don't think it can go. There's a way to do it, and that path should be respected. These are today's reports and information on work. And immediately to say my position, therefore, regardless of any debate or if there is no debate, from this debate and from this dialogue that is being conducted: BiH's judiciary institutions will come out even more strongly and come out more functionally, exactly in line with EU requirements and the standards BiH needs to meet. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5835	Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5836	What institutions will come out, we will see this when this dialogue that we are conducting, which is launched by the RS, and we will see, Mr Džaferović, what it will look like. Why did I just say this proposal? Because first, it is not correct and there cannot be enough good dialogue if we do not have people in front of us who are responsible for the 2010 Report. We have an official in charge of the D.A.'s office who can and doesn't have to answer the questions we're interested in. So, she'll probably be there, being our talker as much as she can in that domain, but it's certain that the largest number of answers she can give to former Milorad Barašin, as a recent chief prosecutor. Another question, which I would like everyone to answer, given that in BiH, individuals suspected of war crimes, whose prosecution is allegedly under way, I would like to ask a concrete question, at the same time as I talk about the prosecution, to ask this question to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council – how is this possible. So it's not a booth. The judiciary is the whole to be declared by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And it's good for both of her homes to be declared here. And I don't see anything wrong with that. Why would that, Mr. Džaferović, be a problem with the judiciary? We'll talk about the problems in the 106 area and let them be heard, because we don't adopt but we have the right to take a stand. And the High Court and Prosecution Council only informs us. We have no obligation to adopt that report, but we have a duty to say what we have to say, and I think that would be an overall review of the situation in the judiciary. I don't really see why you're contesting it. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5837	I would tell Mr. Džaferović that we have a systemic problem, that there are many, many reforms, under quotes, done that are actually the source of our problems today. Three basic pillars of the state, meaning judicial authority, executive power and legislative authority,... should by every theory have insight into each other's work, that's what Amerikanac tell you... Everyone has to answer to someone. Here, according to the story of independence, the judiciary is trying to create a separate entity, something that has become a purpose itself, and here I am telling you that the BiH judiciary is not independent. Who says the judiciary and the prosecution haven't been in motion in the past political process? How is it possible to launch against top political officials in the past period of processes that he loses after three or four years? Is anyone responsible for this? Did the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council have to sanction those prosecutors who launched political proceedings for which they had no basis? Or is the Court responsible? Maybe the Court didn't want to make decisions that were in line with the evidence the prosecution made. We also have personal reasons to be dissatisfied, we have proof that what is done in BiH is not an office. We have SDS Vice President Branislav Garić, whom the man killed in his office, admitted to killing him, and eventually went through the judicial system and released, there's a man without any sanctions, without any treatment and walking around Doboja today. Will someone answer those questions? We therefore insist that the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council be present here, to ask him – is there any responsibility in the judiciary? You've created a separate system. It is not true that the judiciary should be independent of the political system. In America, the Senate resolves and appoints judges and prosecutors. The segment, perhaps the most important segment of society, must answer to someone and must answer here in Parliament, because this should be a parliamentary society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5838	So we need to take over the Senate's jurisdiction, too. Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5839	...and everything that goes with the Senate. _________(?) 107 [[no microphone turned on]] In the package, I accept Bianca, here, although in these replicas the essence of what I was going to say is said, so I'm thinking whether I should give up, even though it might not be fair because we should have participated in the discussion. My basic essence of the replica was Mr. Džaferović, we can talk about everything, but the problem is if, and I think it is, the postulate of an independent judiciary is at stake. If you could convince me that's what we have, we could talk about all the other shortcomings. However, in addition to the fact that from these, here, let's call political circles or representative circles, or whatever you want, criticism comes at the expense of the judiciary, the prosecution, I think that at this moment 90% of BiH citizens think that the judiciary is not independent. And that's the problem. And I'm convinced of that. And, of course, no one's going to let go of the research because they know they're going to get that result, meaning no one, and from whom they're all addicted, there'd probably be different options, but you wouldn't get 10% of those who are convinced that it's an institution that's completely independent, sure. I'm allowed here to bet that over 10% that wouldn't be the result. And then if you have an addictive judiciary, then you have a problem. Of the state of lawlessness is only a worse state in which the law is misused. That's the problem, then. Too much has happened over the past years and too many arguments, which are mysterious, which was spoken of by Mr. Lozančić, and what are these directly subdued arguments to ask whether we have any institution independent. In recent days, Murat Šabanović gave an interview to many of the BiH media, and I can see that they both passed it on to Zagreb and Croatia, where they put an accent on the story that all of this was sold to us by foreigners and that we need to get rid of them as soon as possible to start communicating normally and to start building normal institutions. Today we had four or five debates where such cheap strangers sold us legislative packages, which, by force, led us to unprecedented problems. Justice, higher education, public procurement, Mr. Pilav spoke today. All that package was brought to us here and, not to lie, served by principle take or leave it, you have to do it. These are supposed to be the advantages of Western democracies. And when we started to pick on it afterwards, there's no land that's been sold to us. No Niko has that. We have also been on some trips, seen what an independent judiciary in Spain looks like, has no independent judiciary, has just said, there are only different models that one sovereign state, so it is possible to be independent of your people, of your citizens, of your country, of your highest legislative body. It doesn't exist anywhere. But one thing is clear, the international community, after the harsh means of force it has managed this country, has installed in its system such faulty things as to further manage and create political processes through these systems. It's completely visible now and it was for their needs, I totally understand them, but I don't understand us as people sitting down and saying -- people, this is a defect to this climate, this space, this area, these people here is not responding, let's agree to do something of our own. Unfortunately, there are political groups in BiH that accept everything that foreigners propose for granted. We're aware of that, that we don't open that story. There are groups that do not allow any critical relationship to what comes from institutions. And then you have a paradoxical situation – in those areas where all the foreigners have decided, and the responsibility remains for us, here we are now also responsible for the situation in the judiciary, even though nothing has been asked of us, and every day everyone is trying not to ask us anything. But now that you ask, give us those who set us up with 108 whether they have their responsibilities, no responsibilities, no such characters, I remember those various names of reformers,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5841	This was a replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5842	(Yes and I'm finishing), experts who have been profiled, who knows where they are now around the world in some low-class positions in their midst, and here we have experts, and now we have what we have. So, to talk about anything, we would have to find out, and we will probably require that all international forums and international institutions first inform themselves that it is not an independent judiciary, so let's see what we do next. If my information says that in judicial institutions...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5843	Comrade Kalabić, you have united two replicas in one.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5844	(ending) There are representatives of individual embassies of foreign countries sitting in the judicial institutions of a country that wants to be sovereign, so if you'll excuse me, it's not a sovereign state.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5845	There are no more applications for discussion. Moving to the 28th point of the agenda: Ad. 28. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (Common College of both homes) The joint college of both homes is held at the 1st session, held on 7. Seven. In 2011, established a proposal for a conclusion that you all got. The proposal of the House College in an extended composition is that the members of the Interim Joint Commission should be named Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Božo Ljubić, Petar Kunić. Any other suggestions? There are no other suggestions. 109 We move to point 29. I suggest before we start talking about point 29 that all points 29 to 43 unite the debate on granting consent to ratify these agreements. If you agree, I suggest we vote on that conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote for this conclusion now. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. Ad. 29 to 43. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5849	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5850	It won't change the situation. Do you want to do it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5851	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5852	So, at the request of Ljubić, we repeat the vote. [[Common discussion]] Shall we go to the second round of voting? Prepare for the second round of voting. Vote, now!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5854	Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5855	At the request of MP Beriz Belkić, we will repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. I just want to tell the MPs there's no problem in voting until morning if you're not in a hurry or really a little bit of attention to try and vote. Prepare to vote. We are voting now on the amandman of MP Milorad Živković, the second round of voting. I'm saying that the amandman didn't get the general majority and it didn't go through. We move to a vote on the draft law in the second reading and note that we have an amendment to one of the amendments to the Commission's Report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the draft law in the second reading received both the necessary general and the entity majority and was adopted. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: 111 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on minerals (second reading) I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I also find that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on mineral fertilisers has received unanimous support, both in general and in entity. I'm realizing he's adopted. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. _________(?) /Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]] You'll get the number of votes. Okay, if you want to wait a minute, it's not a problem. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5858	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5859	You can feel the relapse of the past, that need for unanimity... We move to the ninth item of the agenda: The draft law amending the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission Here we are voting on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! 113 So we don't have a general majority here. We can conclude that it was more for, therefore, against the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission, and this law has been rejected, it returns to the Constitutional Commission. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: The proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Here we vote on the bill in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the bill has received both the necessary general and the entity majority and that we have adopted the bill in the first reading. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics Here we vote on a negative opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! "For" voted 24, "against" 13, one "abstained." We have the general majority we need, we don't have the entity majority. Agreeing to the College. Shall we go straight to the second round? Prepare for the second round of voting. Vote, now! We do not have 10 votes 'against', or 12 'against', to return to the Commission since we have not adopted this negative opinion. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010 (the debate held at the 5th session of the House of Representatives held on 14/07/11) We will stress that this item has been removed from the agenda due to the absence of the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: 114 The report on the work of the BiH Parliament Assembly's Citizens' Board of Appeal for 2010 The vote on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH and the conclusions contained in it. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the report has been adopted. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: The report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2010 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2011. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that the report has received both the necessary and the general and entity majority – 35 votes 'yes', 0 'against', four'maintained'. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: Report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2010 Glasmo on the adoption of the Report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I'm realizing that we have the necessary general majority, that we don't have the necessary entity majority. We're going to get into college. Are you agreeing to accept this? _________(?) Round two. Second round of voting. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2010 was adopted. We move to the 16th item of the agenda Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2010 115 First we vote on the conclusion of the MEP Mirza Kušljugić. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Do you need me to read you that conclusion? You know everything, that's better.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5861	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5862	This isn't a business initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5863	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5864	A colleague, Živković, needs to intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5865	Thank you. Just for a little while. So, in Parliament's work so far when it was an initiative or a proposal for the agenda for the next session, it was more formulated as an initiative and then it went to the commission. The Commission says whether it's okay, it's not okay, and it's getting ready for the material, so we don't initiate the agenda points to the next session of the assembly. I mean, the work so far that he's been good here in Parliament, and I suggest a colleague to formulate this as an initiative instead of a conclusion. It will pass a certain treatment and will surely be found as a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5866	The word has an MP, Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5867	I'd just like to know which commission, because
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5868	The Transport and Communications Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5869	in the previous term, the Commission for Transport and Communications has not considered the situation and analysis other than the Derek report. joint discussion 116 If you think she's the commission, then she's fine. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5871	So, the proposal has been agreed by colleagues from Živković, here and counterpart Kušljugić, to turn this conclusion into an initiative that we refer to, in this case, to the competent Commission for Transport and Communications that it is evident about this initiative and then Parliament will declare it afterwards. Please prepare to vote on that conclusion. Vote, now!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5872	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5873	To refer to the Commission. I'll ask you a little attention, you can't all talk at once, though. I find that we have adopted this proposal, the conclusion, that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority. We're voting now on the adoption of the report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we adopted the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2010. We have the necessary and general and entity majority. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: The Work Report and the Financial Report of the BiH Post Traffic Agency for 2010 Glasmo on the adoption of the report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted these reports. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: Report on the activities of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010 117 First we vote on Dušanka Majkić's Conclusion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here we will read to you the conclusion: 'In accordance with Article 10. The law on the revision of BiH institutions, "the Official Messenger of BiH", number 12/06, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions to immediately initiate a professional assessment of its work by the independent auditory house of the other country, and to deliver the report on the professional evaluation to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I realize we have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. We're moving on to the collapsing at the College. We're going to the second round of voting. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! Parliamentarian Dušanka Majkić's conclusion was accepted. We're going to vote on the adoption of the report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that a report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office has been adopted. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: The Annual Financial Report of the Office for the Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions for 2010. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted the Annual Financial Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: The report on the work of the Management Board of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export and Credit Agency for 2010 118 Voting on the adoption of the Report. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives adopted the Report. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: The 2010 report on the work and business of BHRT has prepared one conclusion from colleague Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5875	Thank you. So, I propose the following conclusion: 'to postpone the plea, and to task the competent commission to systemise the proposed conclusions and propose consistent conclusions to this House.'
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5876	So, given that we have a large number of conclusions within this agenda point from a whole series of MPs, the proposal is that this goes towards the competent commission, that this commission systemises it and that we, after that, as a representative home, come forward. Can we make a statement about this conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this conclusion has been adopted. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda: Annual report on the results of the BiH Ombudsman's 2010 activity in BiH's Human Rights Institution, I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the Annual Report has been adopted. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda: Special Report on Persons' Rights with Disabilities We vote on the adoption of the Special Report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. 119 Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted the Special Report on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We move to the 24th point of the agenda: The report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2010 The Word has an MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5877	So, the chairman, I propose the same conclusion: 'to postpone the plea and to the committee in charge systematise the conclusions.'
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-27-0.u5878	So the same conclusion as point 21. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! The conclusion has been given to both the general and the entity majority and I find that we have accepted it. We move to the 25th item of the agenda: The report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010 and here as at the previous agenda point, the proposal is to re-adopt the same conclusion that this is also going towards the competent commission, and after that will come to us, the vote. I invite you to prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote, now! I find that this conclusion has received the necessary general majority and the required entity majority and has been adopted. We move to the 26th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for the completion of the 5th session of the House, on the debate on the BiH Law Department's work report for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010, which reads: 'A report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2010 will be returned to the BiH Law Department with the aim of reaching agreement between the lawyers and the deputy attorneys' Therefore, we are voting in the second round on the conclusion of Parliament Dušanka Majkić. I invite you to prepare for the vote. 120 votes, now! I find that there are not enough votes 'against' from any entity. I find this conclusion adopted. If we adopt this conclusion, and we adopt it, the Attorney General's Office's report for this period returns to the BiH Law Department. We move to the 27th item of the agenda: Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010 First we vote on the conclusion of MP Borislav Bojić. You all got that conclusion, if there's any need to read it. There is. Here, we'll read it anyway. The conclusion is: 'Because of the accumulated problems in the judiciary of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples will hold a joint thematic session with the agenda point – the situation and problems in the BiH judiciary institutions and a proposal for measures to overcome the problem. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! There's no need for a general majority. The conclusion was not accepted. We're going to vote on receiving information. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! 22, 13 against. We don't have the necessary entity majority. It's clear here that we've taken her into knowledge but we haven't voted just to let her know. We're moving on to alignment. Round two. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 28th point of the agenda: The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance (Proposed by the Joint College of both homes) We vote on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion with the proposed members, and the members unanimously propose to the Joint College, i.e. the Extended College. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! We have the necessary and general and entity majority and I realize that we have adopted this conclusion with the proposed members. 121 We are now going to vote on points from regular number 29 to 43. I suggest we vote first on all agreements in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree, as my colleague Jovičić would say, that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. We are now going to vote on giving consent to ratifications of the agreement between points 29 and 43. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have ratified all these agreements, that we have the necessary and general and entityal majority. That concludes the vote on all points of today's House of Representatives session. Thank you again for your constructive contribution to the work of this session. The next meeting of the House of Representatives is in August of the month. The seat is closed at 1950 hours.
