ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7473	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 15th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from the session was justified by MPs: Borislav Bojić, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Ismeta Dervoz and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. According to service information, there are 26 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I want to know that we have downloaded from the previous agenda: - point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, because of the need to bring the competent commission into line between the colleges of both homes. - point 23. Information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, due to the failure to fulfil the business assumptions for the discussion at the House session, i.e. because of the lack of the opinion of the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The Commission's session was not held due to the lack of quorum. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Is this display working here? Meanwhile, until the technique is ready, here we have a agenda for today's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7474	Thank you, Chairman. 2 In accordance with Article 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the agenda of today's session be the point: Addressing the President of the BiH Court of Justice, Ms Meddžida Kreso, representatives of the international community in BiH, on the initiative of the BiH Prosecutor's Office on Amendments and Supplements to Article 27a) of the Criminal Procedure Act. On 23.9th, the BiH Prosecutor's Office sent an initiative to amend the said member. And nothing would have been disputed, and the initiative refers to more effective processing of war crimes cases, and nothing would have been disputed if the President of the Court had made her arguments and directed to the Ministry of Justice, to whom this initiative was addressed or to this Parliament. It is disputed that her letter was sent to everyone except those to whom it was to be sent, and was addressed to the Office of the High Representative, the Office of the Special Representative, the Embassy of the United States, the Prosecutor's Office, etc. What worries me is that this shows me that our judiciary is not independent, that we have a higher instance above the judiciary and I believe that this is the reason and that this is, in fact, derivating BiH's executive and legislative power. This is, I mean, a textbook example of attacks on the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7475	I beg you, you're proposing a agenda point. If we open it, then...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7476	That's exactly what I'm explaining. I also have materials, I mean, I'll deliver materials, it's no problem, and I have the right to explain up to three minutes. I wonder if this parliament or representatives of the international community and various embassies are passing laws? And what came well from this letter is that we saw, first of all, that our judicial system is not independent, that we saw that BiH is neither a sovereign state, that there are various offices and embassies above our judiciary and that we have seen that in fact there is no longer a division of power here in legislative, executive and judicial matters, but in legislative, executive and ambassadorial matters. These are the reasons, and it is a shame that this is how the President of the Court of Justice's institutions are being undermined and, therefore, in order to protect the dignity of both this Parliament and the institutions of BiH, I expect that we open a debate today on this letter. The material's here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7477	I don't know after these numerous findings, what we'd like to discuss next, but I want to remind you first of the following.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7478	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7479	Mr. Bosić, take your word for it. Please, if I don't want to warn you, answer your word, ask for business intervention. Before I remind you of this. As a Joint College, we had a session yesterday, like an extended college. A representative of the 3 SDS also participated in the work of the Enlarged College. And this draft agenda that is on your desk today is a unique proposal from the Extended College, including the representative of the SDS. And let's say that, here, it hasn't even been 24 hours, and now we have a change and a supplement. But we'll get to the bottom of it, it's no problem. Replica, Pandurević Aleksandar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7480	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I have an amendment and addition to the Rules of Procedure, Article 65, I have the right to propose today. And I remember you well from the previous session – when there was no session that you did not propose changes and additions to the agenda, so that the right you gave yourself cannot be denied to us. It's our business law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7481	You have the right to exercise your business right, and I have the right to say what was the answer and how should we work towards the Rules of Procedure. No more reports. I'm closing the debate... We have more on the agenda. Discussion, Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7482	Here, if I'm wrong about the Rules of Procedure, of course, I'll correct myself immediately. So I would like a brief comment on this proposed agenda point, i.e. my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7483	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7484	Here, if I have no right, if Mr. Bosić says I have no right, I'll sit down, Mr. Bosić, it's all right, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7485	Mr. Belkić, you have your word. You've got the word and no one has the right to disturb you at the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7486	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7487	Mr. Bosić, I will be forced to give you a warning. Mr. Belkić, you have your word. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7488	So, I absolutely respect Ms. Pandurević's business law to propose a item on the agenda, however, the way she explained and the qualifications that have been given are worth a certain comment. So, obviously, you've observed the President of the Court, or, in some way, you've followed her moves and her correspondence, etc., and you've denied her the right, which each of us has, to send a letter, to ask for an opinion from anyone, or even from those institutions that you're talking about. I'd just like to remind you that the High Representative is part of this country's constitutional justice. All the institutions you listed are one type of guarantee, i.e. very specific guarantees for the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and the preservation of this country. Your claim that you want to help the BiH judicial system is not true, you definitely want to break it this way. And, therefore, I just want to say that we understand it, that is, I understand it and I will be absolutely against it and against this point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7489	The word is Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7490	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have stood up to say that I object to this proposal, that I do not think it belongs here in the Parliamentary Assembly, that it is not his place to discuss the House and that I will vote against it. And I call upon the House to vote against this proposal. We don't need to, nor can we discuss who's writing the letter to the President of the Court. The President of the Court of Justice of BiH has his rights, obligations and responsibilities and is known to whom he can and cannot, and what he should do and what he should not do. So, it's a question of opus, I don't want to go into it, I don't want to go in here. And when it comes to this information that is trying to make a joke when it comes to the participation of the international community in the processes in BiH, it is said that in BiH the government, among other things, is being divided into an ambassador, I would call on all those who block the processes in BiH to do less. Then there'll be less need for that so-called. The ambassadorial authority, i.e. by implicating the international community in the processes in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7491	We have a replica. Dušanka Majkić, please. I hope this is the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7492	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's a good thing what we're doing today at the beginning of this session. If we introduce the first criterion by which no MP can propose a agenda point past the College's decision, we did not do a good thing because we violated the 5 Rules of Procedure. So don't stop anyone from proposing a agenda point, no matter what the College finds, shared, expanded, I don't know which one. Second question. If a colleague has already proposed a item of the agenda, it is amazing how much... one MP rises one by one to disprove everything she says. She may have a little too elaborated on the point itself, maybe, but you didn't accept the point so we could open up the discussion and talk about it. Which is the attack right now, this is at the beginning, so does that mean that if she put out her position is whether it means that we need now to get a floor of votes that will disprove everything she thinks. Well, you forbid anyone to think otherwise. I beg you, all of you who have answered the word, respect that each of us has the right to state his position, no matter how much he may have liked him. Let's be collegiate with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7493	... Here you go. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7494	I must refer to this interpretation of the authority of the high representative by Mr. Belkić. Mr. Belkić, under the Dayton Peace Accords, a high representative is a simple errand boy who goes from side to side and tries to bring them to a table to sit down and talk. So, the High Representative is not a legislator, he's not a legislator, there are institutions of this system, let's admit, well, what's our point if someone else is going to pass laws? What do we spend money on the budget for this House? Well, come on, let the fine high representative write us laws, let the embassies pass laws. I do not at all dispute the need to communicate with the representative of the international community, but to try to exert pressure through representatives of the international community to make certain changes and additions proposed by one institution of this country, sorry, in my humble opinion, it is an attack on the country's legal system.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7495	Another replica, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7496	So I absolutely don't think of challenging anyone's right to have an opinion and not to listen to it. However, the way these opinions are presented and in which they explain themselves sometimes leads a person into a situation where he has to react. So, Miss Pandurević says he's a high representative of the errand. There, here, I won't go any further, there, I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7497	Okay. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We only have one proposal to supplement today's agenda. Unfortunately, the promoter called for Article 65, but I, as chairman, cannot put it to the vote at the moment because, in accordance with Article 65, I still do not have the material in writing. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7498	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7499	Who and when?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7500	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7501	So, let's wait, shall we? I'm taking a break from 10 minutes until we get that material. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the 15th session. We've concluded the debate on the agenda. We have a new proposal to supplement the agenda. I'll read that agenda point the way it was delivered. So, the proposal is to include, quote, an initiative to supplement Article 27a) of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act. I can't see what point of the agenda you're proposing here in this material. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7503	...no microphone turned on... The BiH Court of Justice, Meddžide Kreso, to international institutions over an initiative to supplement Article 27a) of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7504	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7505	Well, I don't know, then they didn't copy everything, so it's not really up to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7506	I have a question which regular number does this point have, like a number?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7507	No microphone 7 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7508	Regular number 22, respected suggestions from fellow Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7509	So, please, fellow MPs, prepare to vote on who is to put this proposal in the agenda today's session, as the 22nd item of the agenda? This is a SDS proposal, right, or your own?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7510	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7511	Here, well, emissaries Aleksandra Pandurević. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find 'for' eight, 12 'against', five 'abstained', so this proposal has not even received the necessary general majority, has not been accepted. Now I'm going to read the agenda of the 15th session of the House of Representatives. 1. Approval of the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-111, of 3.2.2011. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5410, of 11.10.2010. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, legislators Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, Law No01-02-1-1611, since 5.9.2011. (first reading) ; 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act; 7. Report on the work of the Research Commission on the establishment of donor funds for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, material No 01-50-1-82-1510, since 18.3.2011; 8. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission for 2010; 9. Report on the work of the Commission on external trade and customs for 2010; 8 10. Report on the work of the Transport and Communications Commission for 2010; 11. Report on the work of the Finance Commission and the 2010 budget; 12. Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Affairs for 2010; 13. Report on the work of the Commission on gender equality for 2010; 14. Report on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH for 2010; 15. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Oversight for the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for 2010; 16. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics for 2010; 17. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2010; 18. Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration; 19. Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2010; 20. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Commission on European Integrations on Parliament's initiative, Šefik Džaferović, which reads "The initiative of MEP Šefik Džaferović with a modified deadline of consideration will be included in the Work Plan of the House of Representatives' House that a three-month analysis will be made of the state of fulfilment of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has on its European, Euro-Atlantic security path"; 21. Appointment of a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak people, the BiH Regulatory Agency, material No 01.2-29-117911, of 18.11.2011; 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Member States of the South-Eastern European Health Network on the arrangements of the host country and the Secretariat of the South-Eastern European Health Network; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of San Marino on the promotion and mutual protection of investments; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes and the prevention of fiscal evasion; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the "IPA Adriatic Programme of Cross-border Co-operation" under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 28. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Greece on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes; 29. Giving consent to ratifying the UNIDROIT Convention on stolen or illegally exported cultural goods; 30. Giving consent to ratifying the amendment to Article 20(1). UN Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. 9 We move to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7515	Thank you, Chairman. So, I am pleased with Mr. Sead Lisak's reply and I thank him publicly for this answer. But I hope you've all read this answer. If not, 10 I would ask you all to read, because what I received in response is very worrying about BiH. So now I don't elaborate on why it's worrying, asking all of you to read this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7516	I thank Mr. Babalj. Next thing you know, Mato Franjičević signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7517	I'm pleased with the response I received from the Council of Ministers, and there was a question of executive oversight in intelligence and security agencies. I'm glad the Council of Ministers has a body that oversees the work of this agency, because it implies some other conclusions. I am not satisfied with the answer I received from the Committee for the Conservation of the National Monuments of BiH, because it did not answer the point of my question. In fact, it consisted of the commission saying whether it is in the function of preserving BiH's national monumental heritage or in the role of meeting different stakeholders. From the extensive material that I received in response to this institution, which, by the way, reminds me of all fellow MPs, established by aneks vi. The general framework agreement for peace in BiH is more than obvious from this extensive material that the Commission has gone beyond the mandate set out in this aneks vi. and that, rather than worrying and protecting BiH's national monumental heritage, more attention and concern have shown how it will satisfy certain stakeholders. Of course, I'm not going to spread the story any further, but, not at today's session, but at the next session, I'm going to ask additional questions, and I'm going to trouble this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7518	The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7519	I've got answers to two questions. Of course, I thank those who answered me. It's a very brief comment. When asked about the conditions under which parliamentary parties can use these premises here in the BiH Parliament, I received a half answer, so I am half satisfied. One of the decision-making actors replied to me, so I would ask the other to answer me so that the political parties represented in Parliament would know that they could use the same hall here in Parliament for these large gatherings. When it comes to the response to the implementation, relating to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's appeal to Mr Izetbegović, I have so far only received an answer from our Joint Service, which she told me, which she stated here, that she received 3.11.2011. The Constitutional Court's decision. So she has already lost over a month on her journey to the BiH Parliament. And I have no information, what I was interested in, what was done at the execution of the verdict. I do not have that information, and I expect the competent ministries, which also referred this question to 11 answers – whether someone is already preparing amendments to the Law on Citizenship as a way of implementing the Constitutional Court's ruling. So, I am staying, insisting on the answers and other institutions to which this issue applies, because so far I have only the answer that the verdict in Parliament, after a month and a few days, has come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7520	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7521	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, to the first parliamentary question and to the answer of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, of course, I am not satisfied with the space of the reasons why my question was about three ministries, and it was about Maoču – therefore, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights that it is really possible for this ex-terrestrial territory, some part where practically the police were not allowed to come. The Ministry said they weren't in charge. Of course they're in charge. Who brought these people here? So which ministry is competent, it's not the Foreign Ministry. But here. So it's no use to me either for being dissatisfied or for being answered that way. And as for this second parliamentary issue, addressed to the defence minister, I am also not satisfied with the simple reason that the issue was very clear and concrete: 'Will the BiH Ministry of Defence carry out an investigation and determine responsibility for those members of the Armed Forces of BiH who knew about the existence of a mass grave and killed Serb soldiers and civilians in Adil Bešić's barracks in Bihac, knowingly covering up evidence of war crimes committed and protecting the perpetrators of these crimes?' So, jurisdiction was the Ministry and command, there's a multiethnic army. So who's in charge if he's not the Secretary of Defense to order an investigation? And here's how they answered me, indeed, not that I'm not satisfied, but not close, it says – we inform you that the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces, so now, they... informed the Minister, this Joint Staff, the Minister of Defence of BiH that the Ministry and the Armed Forces do not have information related to the contents of the parliamentary issue. Now I ask the question again – then who has it? Now, they point me down: 'As war crimes cases are in the jurisdiction of the prosecution, courts and law enforcement agencies, the BiH Ministry of Defence will provide the necessary assistance and assistance at the request of the same.' So, I'm not going to interfere with the work of judicial institutions if they're doing any investigation, investigative actions. I repeat, I was clear – there is a multiethnic army from all three nations, a certain space that belongs only to the Armed Forces of BiH, does not belong to any other institution. Well, I guess someone's in charge if he's not the minister. Here, the commander of this headquarters should order if anyone really knew, I didn't say that under pressure someone had to give me some information, but, well, to conduct an investigation and to inform me – we did nothing, we didn't determine anything, and only then would I be satisfied. So it is illusory to ask any parliamentary questions, but you will get these answers with which we will always be dissatisfied. There is no answer that will satisfy what happened. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7522	I thank Mr. Jovičić. The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7523	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. I have received, I have to say, about half the answers to my questions so far, but I would only like, on the basis of the answers I expect from the State Department of Refugees and Displaced Persons to point out that I have long expected certain answers to the questions I have asked them, as well as from the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry of the Federation. As regards today's answers, they refer to an initiative addressed to the entities' privatisation agencies from which I received, above all from the RS, from the Investment and Development Bank, which has practically taken over the responsibilities of the RS Privatisation Directorate since 2008. In that statement, or answer, they say they will practically take whatever they consider to be past the legal regulations, or contracts they have signed. I wanted to say this, and I first of all asked this question to the Agency for Privatisation or, in one entity and another, it certainly plays a huge role, given that it is the masses of problems, primarily employees of these institutions, that is, in companies where people are employed. Companies are privatised, but implementation of contractual obligations, i.e. monitoring, practically, is not adequate. This answer I received is that they will undertake certain activities in accordance with the laws as they encounter problems. I really believe that, not only in the RS area, but also in the Federation area. Surely, at this point, the mass of the company, the mass of the company, with major problems, but certainly the activities at least through the Prosecutor's Office or in the regular procedures of the competent courts are not seen any sort of resolution, which is exactly the purpose of my question. As for the second answer to the question, i.e. from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, relating to the situation and the situation in the railways, I received an answer saying that activities are currently being conducted, however, Directive 91440 has not yet been respected. The EU in which we have more significant opportunities to get some funding from European funds when it comes to the railway sector. I thank you for your reply, but with this, however, I must say that I am not satisfied, because if we have not done everything necessary to respect Directive 91440, I believe that the competent ministry, as well as the entity, must do so in order to reach the resources necessary for this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7524	Thank you. The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7525	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I am partially satisfied with the answer that has been raised on the issue of the 10th session of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives meeting on the issue of the establishment of a national body for the collection of tenders for the issuing of ETS licences. So, I would like the Council of Ministers to fill me in on this information, because in that answer most of the answers refer to the elaborate, i.e. the elaborate what the above mentioned ETS issues are, i.e., the issue of CDM licences. So it's said that we're going to have to take the first steps towards establishing the list of largest broadcasters, that we also formed the National Authority for the Implementation of CDM licenses, that staff training was done and that it was done a year ago, so a year ago, but it doesn't say anywhere what we've done on that issue so far. I would just like to remind my distinguished colleagues of the fact that the issue mentioned is of exceptional importance and that, as one of the major problems mentioned in the White Paper, which is published every year by the Council of Foreign Investors. Therefore, a very big problem and it is of great importance to find an adequate answer and it is finally necessary for that body to live and start issuing ETS permits and solving CDM problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7526	The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7527	The Honorable Chairman, in fact, I didn't get an answer to my question. I received a reply only from the secretary of the Joint Service on the number of jobs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. My question was addressed to the other institutions. Who is this, is this the Council of Ministers to send a brief letter to the ministries and other institutions to deliver this information to him or is it the Agency for the State Service? So, I really don't know, but I think the Council of Ministers needs to know who this question is addressed to. Does this agency have a record of all state officials and tenants? I think you should, I guess, come to that stage. If she didn't even come to that stage, then, really, what is she doing and why is there a government service agency? It's for that purpose and established. It is her main job to keep records of the number of employees, to participate in the election procedure, to conduct education of civil servants, etc. So this is a bit of a non-serious, unserious answer. I don't know, if a local-list journalist had set it up, it'd probably be a more appropriate answer. This is about the state of the spirit and us. This says a lot. So, that the MP does not want to be given an answer, that the asked question is belittled. So, what stage did we go into, what is this state? I think that we all need to ask ourselves about this situation, or we need to disbanded this Parliament and the institutions because they are not doing their job. This is the basic 14 questions to be answered. What kind of condition is that? Is this a state of chaos in certain ministries, agencies, etc? Who's coordinating these activities? Is the Council of Ministers in office? It's not, obviously. Thank you and please answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7528	So, colleague Kunić, we can conclude that you are dissatisfied with the answer and that you are looking for a complete answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7529	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7530	Okay. The word is Mr. Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7531	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will comment on part of the response from the 12th session. I then asked two questions that were related. So I got a second question answer, but I'm interested in a relationship with the first question. I will Podsjetić you of this question which was: "Did the Council of Ministers respect the legal procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Return Fund to BiH?" I received a response from the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency. I don't see any reason why the Council of Ministers won't respond briefly, based on all this, whether the procedure is respected or not. Only when I get the full answer, these two answers, then I would comment on the whole case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7532	Thank you. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7533	Thank you, Mr. President. Sorry I'm late, we had a meeting with Mr. Čavušoglu. I have received an answer to my question and he is well engaged, but I cannot be satisfied with him by those who have waited more than 15 years to resolve their housing issue, or to return their apartment to property. For these reasons, another appeal to speed it up in resolution, so that people do not come into positions that they must do so through a court or a greater statement at Europe's level. In that sense, another appeal to get rid of this faster. It doesn't take us 20 years to solve things that are much faster. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7534	We're done commenting on parliamentary matters. We move on to b) New parliamentary questions. I have three parliamentary questions concerning the usurpation of Mr Tahirović Esad's assets from Banja Luka. I ask questions to RS Prime Minister Aleksandar Džombić and the Minister for Refugees and Displaced Persons of RS Davor Čordaš. I'm not going to read any questions, nor am I going to explain the question, given the deficit of time today, but I'm going to deliver it all here in writing. The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7536	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have three short questions. First, the Council of Ministers: 'In 2011, the Budget Law on the BiH Institutions and International Obligations was not adopted, and no grants from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs have been realised, but budgets have funded projects from sports and culture, and this way I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with a response – which projects, or which organisations have been financed from the 2011 budget reserves in the field of culture and sports, as well as other NGOs and in what amounts?' The second question is the Directorate for indirect taxation, Director: 'Is there a different approach to the collection of VAT in entities and Brcko District by the Management Inspector and the calculation of VAT obligations? If there is, by what law?' And third question to the BiH Ministry of Defence: 'a) I ask this ministry for a response on status, location and layout of perspective and inspective locations of the arms and ammunition and MTS warehouses, from the aspect of the filling, operation and dislocation of the same, i.e. Unspective of perspective locations and warehouses, as well as from the point of view of the destruction of surpluses? (b) Who and under what conditions does the destruction of the surpluses of arms and of the ETS, and who oversees this procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7537	Thank you. The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7538	Thank you. 16 I have one initiative and two questions. I'm not going to explain the initiative because we've already talked about it, and it's: an analysis to include in the agenda the 'Analysis of Implementation of the State's War Crimes Strategy', and, behold, there it is, I'm going to hand it over in writing. As far as the issues are concerned, my first question is addressed to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and it reads: 'Besides all possible intentional or unintended personnel failures in the appointment of the holder of judicial functions, cover-ups by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, their unwitting work, there are indications that persons suspected of dealing with or engaged in counterfeiting documents, property fraud, and that they abuse their position in the judiciary for unlawful influence on certain judicial decisions. This is what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has been informed of, among other things, and the complaint against the prosecutor of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Zenic-Doboj canton Dinka Lukes and her husband, Tihomir Lukes, Judge of the Court of BiH. Although the complaint to the disciplinary prosecutor against this couple was filed on 11 September 2010, its applicant has not yet been informed that any action has been taken by her, so here is an opportunity for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to say what's the matter with this." And my second question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice, Minister Bariša Čolak: 'I ask that the situation of internal transfers made to the Ministry of Justice be explained, because it is obvious that internal transfers have been made selectively and that only members of a nation have been damaged. I would like to know why internal transfers were made and by whose orders, and we all know that in the BiH Ministry of Justice, in the past term, which continues, there is no Serbian cabinet that could protect the interests of civil servants and employees of Serbian nationality." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7539	The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7540	Mr. Chairman, I deliver my question to the Ministry of Transport and Communications by written means.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7541	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7542	By estimating today's time and obligations, I am not going to give any arguments on the matter, but I am going to specifically ask three short questions. First, it is to the Council of Ministers: 17 'I am asking the authorities to deliver to me the number of employees at the Agency for Identification Documents and Data Exchange, and the names and last names of employees and civil servants both for all regional centres and for the headquarters of the Agency.' Two questions to the competent entity ministries: 'How many railways of the Federation of BiH and the RS Railways received funds from the Federation of BiH and Budžet RS budget in 2009, 2010 and 2011?' And the question: "What are the total responsibilities of the Federation of BiH and the Railways of the Republic of Slovenia as of 2011, normally, with the structure of the debt?"
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7543	Thank you. The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7544	I have one question with two or three, so to speak, questions. Of course, I won't burden you and it's at a higher address, but the basic address I'm referring to is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And it's not that I'm going to go into details about the already established case-law in the RS that the compensation for investment by the temporary user puts on the burden of the owner of the apartment, i.e. the original owner of the apartment, and that very often investments cross the value of the owner's apartment and then happens that people return and lose their apartment. So there's this explanation and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7545	I thank Mr. Belkić. The word is Božo Ljubić, the second vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7546	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm initiating the initiative. I propose that the House of Representatives or, better yet, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly conduct a debate on BiH's foreign policy orientation. The foreign policy orientation of BiH is the most important issue of state policy for us. In particular, the strategic issue for the future of BiH is meeting the conditions for obtaining EU candidate status. In fact, as much as we speak about BiH's path to the EU, the real behaviour of not a small part of the representatives within BiH does not give us the right to claim that there really is a true commitment to meeting the requirements for convergence and ultimately full membership of BiH in the EU. In reality, there is an irresponsibility to this strategic issue, which proves so far too much wasteful opportunities. BiH was in front of other countries in the region at the time, and is now at the beginning. Even the minimalist approach to using the criteria and obligations that we need to meet as a state has not been able to meet. Now it is almost certain that BiH will not meet the set conditions by the European Council meeting on December 9th, including the adoption of the census law, the law on the state support system, and there is no real progress in implementing the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac ruling against BiH. 18 I ask the question of honesty and commitment to achieving this goal, as set out by EU representatives. In fact, the works show true intention. All this has concrete and daily negative effects across the BiH state and its citizens. The increased presence and activity of the EU in BiH should be used to meet the requirements for obtaining candidate status faster, to use the benefits already provided by the EU, the IPA Funds, etc., rather than constantly saying that BiH will suffer damage from Croatia's entry into the EU. And finally, as one of six party presidents negotiating on the new Council of Ministers and meeting... the conditions, I can say that we are already at a meeting in Sarajevo hosted by Dr. Lagumdžija, we've actually agreed on the essence of all the laws and I'm asking myself and the whole public why it hasn't been realized so far? I'll tell you. At the last meeting that I hosted, when it was obvious that we could not agree on the Council of Ministers, I proposed that day: let us agree and put into practice those laws of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership that we agreed on. And after five leaders supported such a position, the sixth, and in fact the first as it is presented after the new elections, he said I will be restrained. Why? Because I'm not part of the Council of Ministers. Now, these are no justifications for us all putting up with the impasses on the way to the EU together. And then when I see all this going on in the wider and further neighborhood, then I ask myself: is it for all of us here that the EU's goal is to stay as a black hole in the Balkans or some Balkan union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7547	Comrade Ljubić, just for the exact address, you have asked one initiative and one question. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7548	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7549	Okay. We'll treat it that way. The word has Zijad Jagodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7550	Thank you. I have today...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7551	Let me, colleagues, just plain business to remind you. Therefore, when asking parliamentary questions, they should be delivered in writing and very clearly indicated to whom you ask the question. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7552	Okay, thank you. I have one parliamentary question and one initiative. The parliamentary issue concerns competent cantonal and entity institutions, i.e. ministries and tourism, and the Brcko District Tourism Department. I ask the question: "What are these ministries intending to do, i.e. make the area of tourism in the area of their competence more significantly in the recent period, in order for the purpose of production to be in the function of tourism?" An initiative for all BiH institutions: given the deviations in the presentation of official data between BiH institutions and the BiH Statistics Agency, I urge that, in accordance with the applicable regulations and deadlines, all data should be delivered and displayed identically, both in BiH institutions and the Statistics Agency, in order to have the necessary data in one place and, on the other hand, to reduce the costs of institutions through various checks that require significant costs. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7553	The word is Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7554	Thank you, Mr. President. Before asking a representative question, I will quote the provisions of Article 128. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. "The BiH presidency, at the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, submitted before 15 October of the current year a bill containing the BiH institutions' budget for the following year." I asked the BiH presidency three or four months ago whether and when the draft budget for the current 2011 was submitted to the parliamentary procedure, given that it had already expired significantly. To this day, and today is 8 December, 8 December or 8 December, perhaps the Presidency does not understand all the languages in the current year 2011, and I have not received an answer by this date and I say that the answer to that question is not needed because it doesn't make any sense anymore. It might make sense, if it makes sense, to deliver the draft budget, at least at the end of this year, for 2011. I am now asking a question, appreciating our business provisions and the constitutional commitment of the Presidency, and bearing in mind that they are already significantly delayed by the submission of the draft budget for the next year 2012, given that the lack of the budget of BiH institutions, with the unnamed Council of Ministers, is another of the obligations of the BiH Presidency, has a significant or already significant impact on the decline of the BiH credit rating, which is why the real sector in BiH, i.e. all parts of BiH, all the peoples and all the citizens of BiH, will suffer from an increase in interest rates, so here, I ask the BiH Presidency when will finally submit to the parliamentary procedure the draft budget of the BiH institutions and external debt for 2012? Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7555	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7556	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one parliamentary initiative and three parliamentary questions. I'll be very brief, and the broader arguments are in writing. I am initiating the initiative, and I demand that the BiH Council of Ministers resolve the members of the Monitoring Council for BiH, whose own member I am. I refuse to resolve the members because they have done nothing since they were formed and have not adopted a strategy to develop BiH's measurement, which is why BiH is questioning the implementation of 4.7m euros in projects from IPA funds. The second parliamentary question also refers to... unforming something that we were obliged to do, i.e. what the Council of Ministers was obliged to do a long time ago. Article 6 The law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance adopted pursuant to Article IV. The BiH Constitution, which was adopted in 2004, is prescribed that technical regulations, adopted under this law, are carried out, i.e. by the Technical Committee on Technical Regulations of BiH, made up of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister, Minister of Industry and Energy of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Industry, Mining and Energy, Head of the Department of Urbanism, Property Relations and Business Development of the Brcko District and Director of the Directorate for European Integration. My questions are, "How many times has the Technical Regulations Committee met? When was the last session of the Committee organized? And what has the Committee done since 2004, when it was to be formed, to this day?" My second parliamentary question was addressed to the government of Brcko District: 'Why did the Brcko District government make a positive decision on the establishment of new several universities when it gave a positive opinion to the formation of the same, of the seven members of the expert team, i.e. only two of the seven members. What are the members of the expert group who gave a positive opinion? What reasons were managed by the Government of the District and the Resort Service that, apart from the opinions of the appointed experts who are obligator, give a license to start the university? And what were the criteria that were run by the Government and the Resort Service to grant licences to all three cycles of newly founded universities?" And the final parliamentary question: 'How much was employed in 2011 by new civil servants and tenants in certain services, issued (?) by public universities and by private universities...'
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7557	Time's up. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7558	Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7559	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7560	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. I have one parliamentary question that I ask the BiH Ministry of Security and the Ministry of the Interior of the Federation of BiH, and the question is: 'Are these ministries familiar with the disputed report by the RS Ministry of Interior on the alleged activities of the Wahhabi in 14 municipalities of RS, which was presented to the public on 4 December this year. This report states that these activities are being carried out at the border of the jurisdiction of entity MUPs, so I'm curious about what the interior ministry of the Federation of BiH's position is on the allegations in this report and does the Federal MUP have similar knowledge? Please respond in writing." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7561	The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7562	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Ministry of Justice. A group of Serb war crimes convicts, who maintain a fine in a female prison, recently made a dramatic appeal to protect against constant harassment and beating up in a female prison. The appeal said that a group of Serb convicts are on a permanent target of attacks by Bosniak convicts, and that only this year they were brutally beaten three times only because they were Srbin. The group is seeking a transfer from the women's prison to some of the prisons in RS, such as Croatian convicts seeking a transfer to one of the federal canton prisons with the Croatian majority. lawyer Duško Tomić, a legal representative of one of the Serb convicts, says a group of Bosniak national convicts is in the women's prison, and that Serbian convicts are their permanent target. In view of the above, I ask myself to answer the following questions: "Are there cases of human rights violations being investigated by beating and harassing Serb convicts in KPZ Zenica? What are your findings? What is done and what is meant to be done so that cases like this will not be repeated? What are the opportunities for the transfer of Serb convicts to prisons in RS space?" Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7563	The word is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7564	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow representatives, guests, I welcome you. I have one question about, essentially, the issue is the BiH Ministry of Finance, or the Directorate for indirect taxation. Since they are working and performing intensive works on the highway section, the tender procedure has been completed in the southern part of the highway towards the border of the Republic of Croatia. The selection of performers for this other stock is under way, but there is one problem down there. I think that's the problem, I have to say, maybe that kind of nature, obstructive nature, that's all. That part of the road doesn't end. Since the BiH Direct Taxation Authority is responsible for building a part of the highway in less than one km, meaning from the very border of the Republic of Croatia, meaning in the southern part of the Red Worm towards the interior, it seems to me that it has done nothing, any preparations for the financing of the highway's construction and share of the highway, nor has it called any competition, possibly for the execution of works on that part of the highway. Then I ask: Is it also when the Directorate for indirect taxation, has it begun, or will it begin to solve this problem? Obviously, we already have problems building this section of highway which now ends not on the border with the Republic of Croatia but on a nearby hill, near the border of the Republic of Croatia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7565	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7566	Thank you, Mr. President. I give up my parliamentary question because it has already been set.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7567	Thank you. The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7568	Thank you very much. I have three parliamentary questions. One question I refer to the Food Safety Agency: "Why did the Regulation on microbiological criteria for food fail the adoption procedure of the Council of Ministers?" 23 According to my information, it was made in 2008, in line with the EU Regulation EC2073 of 2005. Applying the Regulation in BiH, the one from the SFRY (the Official Journal), aged 45/83, which does not have the current bacterial culture, such as Listery, monocytogenes and the like. The analyses covering the above-mentioned copper strain include routine EU searches. In this way... bacteria, as well as many others that are not covered by the outdated Regulation, can simply enter through the product into our country, thus presenting a significant risk to the health of our citizens. Please respond in writing. And I'm giving two other questions to the Institute of Standardization, so BATI. First question: Why are BAS standards not translated into the languages of the people of BiH or at least one of the official languages in BiH?" Second question: 'Why is BAS standard and this general requirements for the competence of test and calibration laboratories translated into Bosnian, and no other procedure for implementing this standard has been translated?' I'm also asking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7569	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7570	I have one initiative, I think it's closest to that form and two parliamentary issues. In fact, we all remember that we recently adopted the Wine Act here at this House of Representatives. If I'm not mistaken, it's almost unanimous. The media could tell that the law had been stopped, or that it had not passed the House of Peoples. Since I was quite, like this, a workaholic when it came to this law, I had about 20 amendments that had been adopted, and some of my fellow Members had an amendment effect on that law, and in the end we had one, in my humble opinion, good law that brought us closer to European standards in this area, it remained unclear what reasons the House of Peoples had set out not to adopt that law. So I ask the first parliamentary question of the College of the House of Nations, if I have the right to do so,...to inform me of the reasons. And secondly, I propose, here, to the Joint College to consider the need to introduce an appropriate mechanism that would allow for informing MPs, i.e. representatives of the facts and reasons for not adopting acts at one home, after they were adopted at another home in the Parliamentary Assembly. I believe that the formal presentation of the arguments, which have committed one of the homes to refusing to adopt the appropriate act, would be useful both to parliamentarians themselves and to the greater quality of the acts themselves coming out of the parliamentary procedure in this House. Secondly, therefore, it is an initiative. The parliamentary question I refer to the Federal Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining and it reads: 24 'Is there a planned and possible realisation of the financial or any other aid to coal mines in the Federation of BiH in this, or in the next financial year, and what is the position of the Tušnica coal mine compared to that?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7571	The word has an MP, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7572	I have three questions. I'll just set one up like this. I'll put the rest in writing. Following the issue of fellow BiH institutions, I ask the following question: 'What places have the institutions been purchased in the last five years, so in the 2006 term, to date? What is the squareity of these spaces, for which institutions are thus provided working conditions and what was the cost of costing these spaces individually?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7573	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7574	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have two parliamentary questions, one renewing, here is the fifth year, which number do I really not know: 'When will the property of the seminary be returned to Sarajevo?' In the press comes the agreement, the Interreligious Council, the High Representative intervened, gave a statement by cantonal officials – will be returned, given by the officials of the City of Sarajevo, each given something, and the property is not returned. I ask the question, and I remember well, then I say, knowing what might and how far this might go: 'Will the bogoslovija be returned in my term? I've been thinking about the past, and here I am again, will she be back in this term, will she be back in 100 years, will she ever? Let him show the interest of Sarajevo too once to restore the seminary and find space for the Faculty of Economics, of course, not alluding to leave students without space, but when they find space for all things, then it would be best to invest in this youth and find a new and even more modern space than that." So that's the question. And secondly...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7575	Who was the question asked? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7576	The asked question to the Cantonal government and the mayor of Sarajevo who are in charge of it, I don't believe that the Federal Government, but here, whoever's in charge, can do something to get it back. The second question is similar, Chairman, to your question, you just didn't explain about this property, these private persons. So let's help with at least one or two examples to get that property back, and I will, here, not to mention dozens of such cases throughout BiH, take as an eclading example, and the parliamentary question is also addressed to the mayor of Sarajevo and the Cantonal Government in Sarajevo: 'What about the return of property from the Kosmajac brothers located on 2a Mahmut Busatli Street, and these were exclusive restaurants of Kogo, across the street from the National Bank and Stefanel in the street of Tito 50 across the street from the National Bank too?' The process lasts more than 15 years, and it's all back to square one again. In the case of Kogo it's almost interesting that the facility was taken from these real owners, so from these brothers the Kosmajac, because this new owner is in a magical way, some other way... not going into that procedure, so those Bukvić brothers allegedly came up with some documents or, I don't know, building permits, as it is called, that they built a new facility. There is no citizen of Sarajevo who will not confirm the truth: this facility has never been destroyed, it was only devastated. But in what ways, who took all this part, I do not want to be a prosecutor, not a judge, but I ask, really, does it make sense that this process is stalled for 15 years, and these are dozens, not only in Sarajevo but in every city of BiH. And here's an eclectic example, if we call it the capital and I'm going as my colleague, Emina, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7577	I thank Mr. Jovičić. The word is Mr. Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7578	Dear President, honourable MPs, I have an MP's question. I refer the issue to the cantonal health insurance offices and the Republika Srpska Health Insurance Office. The parliamentary question is, "How much so far has the funds for treatment been charged based on injuries caused by car accidents from insurance companies?" I'd like a report delivered for the last five years in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7579	The word has Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7580	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow guests, I have three short questions, I will not exceed those three minutes. The issue is raised by the Federal Institute of Health Insurance, Cantonal Health Insurance and Health Insurance of the RS. 26 '1st. How many services have been provided to insurance companies from the countries with which BiH has signed a health service contract, we know that there are 13 countries, and how much money has been charged for these services? 2. How much money has been spent, or what and how has the funds from these revenues been spent? 3. Why do the insurance companies from the countries with whom we have contracted to provide health care do not have the right to choose a doctor in BiH? If we do not allow this right for the citizens of BiH, I am now speaking for the Federation, why are we contesting this right for foreign insurance?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7581	The word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7582	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have two short parliamentary questions. The first question concerns entity labour ministries, and it says: ‘Do the competent labour ministries have updated data on the number of labour injuries and the number of labour injuries, and whether the competent ministries have regular communication with the International Labour Organisation on these issues, and whether regular inspection is related to these issues?’ The second question is for the entity health ministries, and it says: 'Is the entity health ministry going to launch initiatives for the establishment of a diabetes counselling facility that does not exist under the applicable legal regulations, and in the field, it is obvious that such counselling centres would be necessary because of the huge number of diabetes patients?' In neighbouring Serbia, they are already seriously considering introducing these counselling centres in primary health care and has certain needs for this form of assistance to patients suffering from this disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7583	Thank you. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Second Reading) 27 At the 8th session of the House, held on 25.8.2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Commission submitted the report with two amendments that become an integral part of this law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. First, MP Saša Magazinović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7585	I'm not going to discuss this law because that's how we agreed on the College, so I'm just going to suggest a conclusion. So, in order to reach agreement on the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the BiH ID card, I suggest that the debate and vote be postponed on this law. In the light of the proposal for a conclusion, I will say, first of all, that it is an extremely important law, I will also say that the law, as it was first delivered by the Council of Ministers, is supported by all political parties, i.e. its essence is not questionable to anyone. What led to the dispute are amendments which do not concern the essence of the law itself and we at the SDP Club, and yesterday representatives of all political parties at the College, we believe that there is a possibility that, taking additional time, we agree on this law to be adopted. In addition to agreeing to the College unanimously yesterday, we agree on some assessment that if we opened this discussion today, that unfortunately this law would probably not have been adopted and we think it would be a shame and that the additional time I'm talking about... adopting this conclusion would be an opportunity to agree on the text of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7586	You heard Mr. Magazinović's proposal, it's a unanimous attitude and an enlarged college. The word has Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7587	Mr. Chairman, I am very pleased with this view that the president of the SDP Club has made and suggested that a solution be made to adopt this law. I would not lead the controversy in this sense, I would only say that at the Commission's session, I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has proposed a compromise solution which, in some ways, has been supported by the Commission, I am convinced that this support can also be obtained in the House of Representatives. In order to help, I will just say, it is said that we, one part of the Constitutional Commission, have destroyed part of the compromise in this sense, I must honestly say that..., I would like to remind only the House of Representatives that by its decision in the "Official Messenger of BiH" 16/2, since 28.6.2002, therefore, it has put off the last position of Article 2, which SNSD MPs voted for and which, at the request of the applicant for the issue of a ID card, can also be entered on the ID card. Just so much, I won't do anything else, so it slowed down the processes, we didn't crash, we're in compromise and we're in agreement on the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7588	... Džaferović, with the fact that I have to remind myself that this is, however, a law in the second reading and we cannot delay the debate, but, of course, when we vote, we can make a statement about this. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7589	I stand up to say that I support this proposal by Mr. Magazinović. I suggested it, in a way, and on the Constitutional Legal Commission, you witnessed it and I'm just staying consistent with what I said two, three days ago at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We need, people, this is a serious thing, the identification document is, if anything, the order would be to have him here on the screen, to be seen by citizens here in Parliament, to see what he looks like, I think. What's the big deal, and I think this proposal's okay, so let's wait, so let's find a solution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7590	All right, I'm closing the debate within the third item of the agenda. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers (second reading) At the 5th session of the House, held on 14.7.2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Commission has submitted the report with three amendments that become an integral part of this law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7592	Although I don't owe you the same conclusion, the same argument applies to this law, and in the same way we treated these two laws yesterday at the College, well, here I am again not formulating the conclusion, so it's exactly the same as the previous one.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7593	Thank you. No one's registered for discussion, I'm closing. The fourth item of the agenda was registered by MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7594	I'm going to make it very brief, just to be clear, whether delaying the statement on this law implies extending the amendment phase, if there were any arrangements, amendments, additions, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7595	It's a political party deal...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7596	You got the answer, we're closing the debate on the fourth item of the agenda. Before we move to agenda five, in line with the college's already agreed, I'd like to ask you now to make a statement on the break by 13:30. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, the chairman has the right to take a break of up to 60 minutes, and it's obvious that this break is more than 60 minutes long, so I want to share this break with you. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! Thank you. I find that we've brought... we've got both the general and the entity majority, the break is by 13:30. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7600	I signed up...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7601	The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7602	Well, here, I won't take much time, I'll try not to upset anyone, as they say. I'm very sorry and I'm a little disappointed that we have the Commission's negative opinion, but, look, people had their reasons and we have what we have. I tried to make an argument yesterday in favour of the need to pass this law, but I failed. This conclusion that is here, as far as we are concerned as the promoter, if both of us at home and above all take it seriously and truly realize it, is acceptable for us and we absolutely did not insist on a specific way of editing. We would be very pleased if we were to arrange the matter through changes and additions to the Criminal Code, but to make it clear that these three matters covered by this law, so genocide, holocaust, crime against humanity, will have criminal offences and that sanctions are prescribed in the Criminal Law for their approval, minimisation and all that is stated in this law. I have no intention of repeating for the hundredth time what I have already said, or what is heard here in this hall, is on the MPs, each of us, to determine according to this matter. And, here, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7603	Thank you. The word is Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7604	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we reject this negative Commission opinion and keep this law in practice. I think most countries, or almost all countries that intend to deal seriously with this problem, are regulating this issue because of the importance of the topic, the importance of the topic for the future in every society, the specific laws. I think it is better for BiH that this area is governed by a special law. Unfortunately, in BiH today, there is still no necessary political agreement to pass such a law, it does not have to mean that we should go towards some palitative solutions. We should persist, here, I am convinced that BiH will one day have this law, so I have no dilemma at all. As for whether to regulate this matter by criminal law or by special law, I have already given my opinion, but let me also say something from the experience of this home. Those who were in the previous meeting remember that in September 2009 we received amendments and additions to the BiH Criminal Law and that this crime was then recorded as a criminal offence as to how it should be recorded, or prescribed, sanctioned. There was no political agreement about it either, and it failed in this parliament for the same reasons and for the same actors. And then in December of the same year, in 2009, it was the time when we passed visa liberalisation laws, when this crime was intended as one of the forms of criminal acts of causing religious, national, racial hatred, so it was intended to be a kind of mutant, something unknown in the world, and for the same reasons of the same actors it did not pass and did not receive political consent and political support. So I think we should insist on passing a special law. I think it's the only real solution. I wouldn't mind, too, what Mr. Belkić was talking about, if we could settle it in a way that's usually arranged in the world, but from this experience that I've cited, from this practice, I find it better to stay, so insist on this being a special law that will prohibit all this about genocide. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7605	The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7606	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the ban on the denial of genocide and the Holocaust is one of the great civilization achievements of the world from the end of last and the beginning of this century. The law, which is proposed by honourable lawmakers Hadžiahmetović and Belkić, implies individual responsibility and gives a chance to fight those who claim that the peoples and groups of people are not responsible for genocide. The reason for supporting this law lies in the fact that MP Bećirović has tried several times in the past few years to make this law a law of this parliament. So, by supporting this law, not by spreading the story, that is, my debate, because MP Džaferović said, here, I am contributing to the adoption of this law. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7607	Are there any more reported? Come on, come on, Dušanka Majkić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7608	Well, I wouldn't, otherwise, if it weren't for all of us to think the same thing. So we see that this is a law that already knows which way appears in the Parliamentary Assembly and it is evident that only those who are proposing are changing. And maybe there's a key question. Why is it so urgent for Bošnjak political representatives to pass such a law? So in normal countries to open this issue would be really pointless. But BiH hasn't yet. There are many answers we owe each other. There is an unequal attitude of the people, an unequal attitude towards the victims. Countless answers await questions asked. And, here, 16 years after the war in this country, things are starting to change, because obviously in the international community, in many countries, some of the opinions that have been exclusively in favour of a nation in BiH are beginning to change. So someone here is from the representatives of Bošnjak, so all three I think political parties have changed in proposing this law without any rationality, so in a country where we are very few who would seriously propose such a law in a position where we can't agree on much more harmless matters. It is a clear position of the RS representatives since, in addition to what you expect from us, we should have sensitivity to the suffering of others, but you can't expect us to have no responsibility for our own people who didn't get satisfaction for everything that happened to him in the past war. I'll remind you of a bunch of things left unsolved. I'll remind you of a Jasenovac who hasn't gotten his epilogue yet. Let me remind you that the most problematic thing in this law... is what is, in fact, what lies in the background, what is the aim of the legislator of this law. So, now that I'm saying it, I mean all the proposings that have proposed this kind of law so far. The first thing I think the promoter had in mind is an attempt to stop the story of the events that occurred in the past war, especially after the publication of several European documentaries published in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, which talk about the events of the previous war in a different context. Another reason, witnesses of war events are increasingly questioning the black-and-white image of war events in BiH. I remind you of the presentation of former UN Secretary-General for the Balkans Jasuši Akašija, who recently said, "It is still unclear who shot at the market for Markala." Recent reports by Wikiliks suggest obvious obstructions over the investigation of killings and crimes against Srbin in Sarajevo, as also suggested by the US Peace Institute, which requested the formation of a truth commission that should investigate developments and killings in BiH during '92-'95. years, but, as is known, the initiative is not realised because it did not like Bosniak politicians in Sarajevo. Many prominent magazines such as the Vienna-based "Standard", "Prese", speak and join the Austrian media in breaking and revealing the truth about BiH. The Italian press also speaks of killings in Sarajevo, where thousands of Srbin were brutally killed. So the most numerous liquidations, as is known, took place in Sarajevo in '92. the year, from the end of the summer to the end of October of '93. A year. It came from Kazan, then the chain of Serb casualties continued in Dobrinja, Hrasnica, Novi Sarajevo, Islands and other illegal prisons. 33 Federation authorities continue to refuse to form a commission for the loss of Sarajevo Srbin, although the RS MUP sent a large number of war crimes reports. All Serbian families' demands have been ignored, thus sending a clear message to Bošnjak that they are not interested in the loss of Srbin in Sarajevo. A number of cases have been sent to competent institutions such as Dobrovoljačka, Central Prison, the Viktor Bubanj barracks, the Tarcin camp, the Hrasnica camp, the selective and non-selective killing of former Sarajevo municipalities. And I have to stand there. The full truth of the war is yet to be told. And that's a prerequisite for reconciliation. And that is a prerequisite that we can sit together and discuss many of the open issues that stand before us. And in the end, it's also a prerequisite for passing a law like this. Without that, without that first part I said, there's no story of reconciliation, there's no equality of three peoples, and without that, I repeat again, there's no way we can pass this law. So I realized the proposal's intention to prevent the demystification of events from changing the distorted image that has been carefully nurtured for 16 years. Why? Under one, the adoption of such a law would lead to the indictee Srbin not being able to defend themselves by claiming that genocide had not been committed. And that means that it would be contrary to this law and they would be convicted in advance. That means, if someone who started the trial said it wasn't my fault, that's when he'd get a new report that he was responsible for the violation of genocide or the minimisation of the crime. And, therefore, his human right to defend himself would be excluded. So there's no one left to defend. He'd have to say - yes, it's my fault, if he didn't want to be wrong about this law. And another reason that is especially beyond any comment. The defendants' lawyers couldn't do their duty and function. That means they could say, yes, my defender is guilty because I can't say anything else, otherwise I'd be accused of breaking this law. I'm sure one of these laws will be passed. But before the troika, this law will require much more mutual honesty, much more sensitivity of Bošnjak to the suffering of others. Because as the greatest nation, countless times so far, it has been realized that they are making the same mistake that the Srbin in the former Yugoslavia have made and God Bog what happened to you. And your insufferability and lack of compromise can do more harm to this country than any of your wishes to make this country great, strong, with the strong institutions you fight so zealously for. So these are some of my observations and be sure when you answer these questions that I have mentioned are brought, then we will have no reason to even lead discussions on such topics, and until then I call on you to make each other as equal as possible, not to be someone because the majority of the people are more equal than those who are less represented. So, I suggest that at this point we do not accept this law, or support the Commission's report, but we cannot support this conclusion by the Commission which says it should be introduced through Criminal Law, because no matter what law it is introduced, if Srbin were losers because they do not have... to defend themselves anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7609	Replica, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7610	It wasn't easy to listen to all these observations, but, look, I listened, so I'm still going back to the subject of today's debate. So, first of all, this law, for those who claim to repeat itself nonstop one and the same law, is absolutely not the same as any on this subject. So he's very specific and doesn't have that feature. That's number one. The ambition to change the image of past events of war absolutely does not stand, nor is it possible by any law to do it, these are the facts that we all know, now everything depends on what kind of glasses it looks like. Here's the thing. This law, of which Mr Lozančić spoke very well on the Commission, I apologize to him, perhaps I will use some of his words, this law rests on three principles and the Commission has discussed the principles and these principles are, in practice, whether this, or on the principle of whether this society supports, or condemns the appearance of a holocaust, genocide and crimes against humanity. And there's no further. Is it or isn't it? And the law, not the goals, not the ambitions of the promoter absolutely did not go the other way. I told you at the initial presentation that I tried to explain to people on the Commission and give the arguments, etc., it didn't go through, I repeated it here, and I say again that the 42 of us sitting here with ourselves need to talk to each other a little bit and say whether this principle of not accepting the approval of these three things stands or not. And all this other talk, we can talk about it for days. And in the end, this law or Criminal Law or anything has not been passed will not change the fact that a holocaust has happened in the world. There's been a holocaust. There's been a genocide in BiH. And there were crimes against humanity everywhere the court ruled, it was Kazani, it was Srebrenica, anywhere. And there's no further. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7611	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7612	The right to tell you was difficult to listen to, and I think Mr. Belkić is absolutely right. This is an amazing thing. I've lived in this country for all the 55 years I've been alive. And I've been since '92. And since '95. A year. When I hear this, this is a disaster, right to tell you, it was hard to hear. I instead of calling for suspicious reports and suspicious roles of various Jasušija Akašija, ordered articles and all that, therefore I advocate the full truth of every event and every moment in all BiH, every place and every man since '92. '95. A year. And until then, I advise all those who are calling for this to take the ruling of the International Court of Justice in The Hague and that it is well-readed in BiH's lawsuit against Serbia for breach of the genocide Convention and to read all the UN tribunal rulings that the UN tribunal has made will be easier for them when they discuss this topic. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7613	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7614	So, I'd like to, Mr. Džaferović, you, besides your verbal support that is very common and I don't question them, if you'd do something to make it more than just verbal support. You are known as a man who will verbally support everything, but will essentially do nothing. So, you're the first of the people to step on everything that's not in the interest of his party and his people. I am sorry that so, I have respect for you as an MP, but also, as a man who has never shown any willingness to change things in this country and that everything that has been outside your political party's political party you were not prepared to listen to, and especially you should not have done. I have invited all Bošnjak to understand that this law is not for this time. So we can't agree on the budget, we can't agree on the Council of Ministers, so imagine that we can agree on a picture that was not full 20 years ago. Don't let us be so unconscious and irresponsible to our own people that we accept what you are now responding to solely because a large number of cases now being conducted in court get a negative epilogue against those who are being defended. Remember that the Srbin paid, a thousand and a few years paid for all those who did. But it frees no one, no nation, that they may not answer for what they have done. That question is a question we have to ask here. And I'm not sticking my head in the sand. And you, as the greatest people, are responsible for this truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7615	Replica, Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7616	What is my relationship with this country, the relationship to work or to this Parliament, and the resolution of the issue, will be decided by the public of this country. To tell you the truth, I'd be worried if you thought differently about me. You think so and stay in that movie of yours, I don't care about it at all. Everything I've stood up and said that I advised you to take the ruling of the International Court of Justice in The Hague and to read it and to take all judgments against all, the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, and read and then speak on this subject. I didn't say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7617	Mirsad Mešić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7618	It's not a replica, it's the wrong quote. Mrs. Majkić says this law gives qualifications on previous events. We either didn't read the same document or the law had nothing to do with the verification and evaluation of anything. He prescribes sanctions for denying crimes, and qualifications are given by others. No one in BiH will qualify for anything, including the International Court of Justice. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7619	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7620	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, what to say when this law appears in different forms, I don't know which time, but it's not an important number, and everyone who suggested it knew and then, they know and now, and they'll know for maybe some further future that it won't be adopted. So, if someone was invited to talk about the injuries, even those treated by members of a certain law, so there's a holocaust connected here, which, of course, no one contests or opposes, happened. And genocide happened, but where and how? Then crimes against humanity will be proven for years. And you know that, when the prosecutor, BiH's chief prosecutor, Marinko Jurčević, was here, I launched an initiative to make a strategy to clarify it, so that we had a clear picture and even suggested five years of time. Well, then, on his initiative, without any support or any elaborate, he said if it took 200 prosecutors and judges to accept it all, so we could find the money to be in charge of clearing up this war past so that we could have as little trouble in the present and the future as possible. So, I'm famous for never looking for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, under alleged signs of quantity, but I've always asked for a balance in the amount of justice for the victims. Well, here, and in this House, it seems to me that I was the only one in the camps, has a respected colleague, Mr. Tihić, in the House of Peoples, and for me, the camper of holiness, no matter what people and nations, but that picture of 44 months per camp, and the war lasted 42 in BiH, says everything. So there are three key truths in BiH. One is Bosniak, the other is Serbian, the third is Croatian, so let me turn around, so one is Croatian, one is Serbian, one is Bosniak, then in the third row, one is Serbian, one is Bosniak, one is Croatian, to respect it all, and for many years one is the truth of the international community. Well, everyone who has any interest in these cases knows that this verdict is the Court of Justice, in which I will not interfere, but it has arisen in the rulings of the UN tribunal. I spoke to Carla Del Ponte on three occasions, and it's not the subject of this law, but it's doing pictures of what's going on, and I told her in her eyes that she's the biggest monster, because she's been given the task of satanizing one people through charges. Well, then, from here in Sarajevo, it depends on what level, first begins, of course, in the media: trees and stones at the RS government helping families indicted in front of The Hague. And here, without meddling at all in the investigation, just 10 days ago, eight people were spotted, saying lower-ranked and responsible for the crimes in the camp where I was, and the express government cantonal finds and money to help these people and, of course, no one in Sarajevo will react. And when Banja Luka did, everyone on their feet. Well, that's how it's gonna be in the future, so we don't lie to each other, we have to be honest if we're gonna build something, and we're supposed to build it. So, I repeat crucially, everyone will have their own truth, each will perform from their positions, but at least they have a chance to tell the victims. I've never heard in this House that someone has set up a law on how to help victims of camps, tortures, and that is what the Geneva Convention obliges us to do. If that law were, my people, do you follow that only for the last five years, a few hundred campers from all three nations have committed suicide. It's the most endangered category of people. Or whoever takes them to work, they're all mostly refugees, because wherever the camps are, they'll never come back. It's an illusion that someone calls them, nobody does anything. That's the law he never found. These people are unhappy, whatever law we're talking about, no one can help anymore. Of course, they need their families. But every time I ask you, whenever there was such a law or similar laws of this topic, we are fully and fully aware of who we are that we are opposed to it – we are not opposed to it. People, the truth hasn't arrived in BiH. It won't be 37 in 10 years, I don't know if it'll be 50. We don't even know history from World War II. And today they dig up some tombs, they're looking for people there. They're digging up now, they're going to dig up. So the bill of law of this character, it was quite clear that it would not be supported. Because the war is over, it's peace, and thank Bog it's permanent. But in this peace, we are complicating ourselves to the situation that I never, but I repeat, ever, until the last Srbin is a representative from the RS, I stress from the RS, never diminishing, never letting anyone in my head, everyone's right to state as they please, but of course I have support in the RS, never in the Federation will any Srbin get the chance to represent the RS or do so. Is that so? And let's play open cards and then we'll understand each other. We won't make a deal, but we'll understand each other. And we will not always put ourselves in a position that, like me, we are insulting the people, and those other us, and then these individuals, and then Honorable colleague Džaferović didn't understand Mrs. Majkić, and Mrs. Majkić didn't understand him, and then nobody understood anyone. Let's get this straight. So the war is over and thank Bog it is. The war truth won't be over, I don't know, I haven't thrown beans or looked at a Fieldjan in 50 years. Everyone has their own truths, people. Wait, wait, let's see, here, one camp is only for the Sarajevo area, eight people have been arrested. Let's see the iceberg when it melts, who's gonna get caught by that avalanche, we'll see. Guys, you're free of all the declarations, the laws. If every Srbin has seen Bejtić win for the first time for 14.5 years, and now released, what kind of judges are these, people? Will we, and we have no right to interfere in the judicial system, to call them to account? The way he was, here, let him make a mistake, the first judge to give him 14.5 years. Was he normal? Did he respect the law? Or the one who set it free? And the same court, just other people! Is this true of war in BiH? Is it true of any law, any resolution? I'm asking you to remember this, not that I'm something important, well, people, I'm a representative of the victims. I suggested, we have the right under the Geneva Convention to sue BiH for war damages, because BiH was obliged to protect our human rights. Then neither would I sit here in Parliament nor you. Strazbur will make a verdict in our favor, but I begged people, don't do it against your country, don't do it. These laws and proposals will never reconcile us, nor will they... reconciliation is an individual act, everyone has the right to make peace with someone or not, but trust will not build, that's the essence. There's no trust on this. Not that I'm afraid to come into my midst if I, God Bog, accept this, and I'll never, ever, ever, ever live, if you know, not getting into it whether it's it or not, because I've never had anyone from the Bosniak people in my life, never asked for a confession, but I said, well, a dear colleague, or I don't know, here, let me call me the ugliest name, is not the place for this pay phone to talk, where you've been for 44 months? It's a vacation, isn't it? So that every time I have to limp in here, I can barely get out. But that's mine, I saved my head. What about those unfortunates from all three nations, Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat they don't have? What about those laws? They forgot all that. So, I beg you, and I end up, don't ever try similar laws to propose these kind of things again, they won't get support. And we're just wasting ourselves, and only the free man, who's watching this tonight, will say, "Look at these from the RS, they won't give." We won't accept it, so you're welcome to kill us here in Sarajevo. There's no accepting any of this, remember. And we'll never suggest anything like this to you either.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7621	Okay. Just to keep in mind, then, that this is, however, a debate in Parliament and that we do not use those terms to kill, etc., I hope that it does not occur to anyone. 38 The word has Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I answered to say a few words about this law. First of all, I think he's as he suggested, he's very short and he doesn't give anything special in the sense that the first part contains definitions of what a holocaust is, what a genocide, what we could read, or we read and we know from international conventions, and the second part concerns penalties that should be prescribed for any persons who have sinned against this law. When you look at this, then a man comes to the idea of whether the promoter had any intention of starting on this proposal to open up some topics that we might need to stay away from at a time when we have major national, social and economic problems in society, or maybe he wants to think that this law will go away so that those who are already convicted by genocide and some war crimes, if by chance, what my colleague Dušanka said, if he accidentally said something against genocide and holocausts, then that punishment should be re-confirmed to him and be punished for the second time under this law. I can't believe that that was the intention of proposing, but what people say, sometimes you have to read between the lines what you get into your hands. The predecessors already said that this law, in the burden of the problems that we have in society, so that a law like this would be accepted, in order to accept at all to talk about it, took a lot of preconditions to acquire and meet so that we could come to this topic to talk about. In a situation where BiH society... has not yet regained trust among citizens, that is, trust has not been created after all the events we have, in a situation where victims have not been treated equally and evenly, a law like this is proposed. Someone who's malicious would say it's someone who wants to put oil on fire with a proposal like this, in a situation where we have a lot of problems, but here, I won't believe it. But I want, of course, to say that the promoter had to bear in mind that he wasn't from another country, from another society, but that we are here who are sitting and we know our reality and our objective situation in society, so he had to know that proposing one of these laws could only provoke some new problems. At the very least, here, let's open up some topics and stories in this House without which we could be very comfortable and go without it and focus on some more useful things. That it's all so saying certain things that are indicated here, so I'll just focus on one. Therefore, it is very difficult to accept a debate on such a law when it is said here: 'The law clearly and precisely restricts the crimes in question to only that group of crimes defined by the relevant and generally accepted provisions of international law, and which as such are recognised and confirmed by the International Military Tribunal, the National Tribunal, other international courts and tribunals whose jurisdiction BiH recognises, and the BiH Court of Justice.' And when you mention the BiH Court, then we've come to the right things. So, the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office who were supposed to be one of the factors in this society to work, that is, to make peace and trust between people has just failed. And to call upon such an institution here, you must immediately know that you will cause great dissatisfaction and great provocations to do with it, as far as we are from the SNSD Club here. Just as I mentioned, the victims who have been treated in an unequal manner and what has been done, the real example of this is the State Institute for the Search for Missing Persons and a number of other institutions at BiH level that have not done the job that should have been done, and in order to restore 39 trust, or reconciliation in our society. So my proposal to the Proposer is to withdraw this law, otherwise, I think it's clear to him that this will not go away, and if he wants us to bring him down, we're going to bring him down, so we're going to challenge him, but I think that today's discussion should be a lesson to all those who, in some next closer or further time period, are going to want to run again like this or a similar law not to, because we still have a lot of questions and a lot of answers that we need to analyse, which we need to talk about, and the solutions that we need to come to, and only then to open up these issues like proposing this. And what the proposer is calling here in law, I don't know, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, some other European countries, so please don't think we should just be in this law like Germany, Switzerland, Austria and other advanced European countries, and we're not anywhere near those countries, let alone that we can make a comparison between us and them at all. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7623	Replica, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7624	To be very precise, I absolutely knew how anyone would react and nothing surprised me. The other thing, I still think this country needs this. The other thing is they're trying to find some reasons that I keep trying to explain that it's not them. Once again, this law rests on one principle: is it acceptable or not acceptable? And there's no further.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7625	I could, as I believe a number of others, talk a lot about this, maybe a little more on the scientific side, and a little less on the political side. But I'm gonna give it up and I just want to say a few words. The debate on this law and on this subject absolutely makes no sense, in advance, if we use this topic and this bill in a way that we open up the open and painful wounds that exist in this country anyway. This bill and debate on this subject only makes sense if the goal is to prevent something in the future and try for every man and every collectiveity to give him a little more security in the future. So this law can't change our past, but maybe it can do something in the future that it doesn't repeat itself. Why do we need one such law, and why should we agree, if it falls today, that such a law should still be adopted in BiH in the coming months and years? First we need it for the victims and for the respect of the victims. And sometimes we shouldn't just talk in this country about three constituent peoples, so I'll say we need it for Jewish sacrifices, and for Roma sacrifices, and for Serbian sacrifices, and for Bosniak victims, and for Croatian victims, and for the victims of everyone else living in this country. We also need this law for the sake of the present, for the simple reason that all the collectiveities and all the individuals in this country feel safer and need us for our children and for the sake of the future. How we're going to adopt it, which provisions, etc., about it... it's evident that this law cannot be passed by revote, but we can come to an agreement and we need to understand that it doesn't need anyone individually. As long as we don't all realize together that we need everyone in this country, we won't even have one. 40 I will now say something heretically sounding in this country, but honestly I think that's the problem. In all the collectiveities in this country, there is a smaller or greater tendency to want to talk about victims within their people, but little or no one wants to talk about the victims of other peoples. There is no stability and security in this country while and from us, the politically elected representatives, there are no messages that we respect every sacrifice no matter what religion and nation it is. And to do such a thing, we must not only be politicians but also statesmen. This law cannot only be passed by politicians, this law can only be passed by those who are politicians and statesmen. If Vila Brand was just a politician, he would never have done what he did. I am the chairman of the House of Representatives who has been in three symbolic places in the last four months. I went and bowed down at Jasenovac Roma, Jewish, Serbian victims. Also, anti-fascist victims from other peoples, in Jasenovac, if anyone may not know, 4,500 Hrvat anti-fascists were killed, over 1,100 Bošnjak, etc. I was in Mathausen where over 180,000 people were killed, close to 10,000 from the former Yugoslavia. I was in Srebrenica, too, bowing to the victims. I think that regardless of our discussions, it would be good to think about how and in what form to sit down and, for the sake of all peoples and all peoples, try to get to this law one day. Whether this is a real form or not, we can talk about it, but I think the main thing is to get to one of those laws, though, shouldn't be questionable. If this were to happen in the first reading, we'd have a chance then possibly for the amendment phase to fix something. I'm not going to talk about it right now, but, let's say, just point one of this law: 'The Holocaust represents crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity committed by the German Nazi regime,' etc. It is absolutely certain that there should be room here to see, is that a number of crimes when we talk about this period were committed both by the German Nazi regime and by the Italian fascist regime, but also by the puppet regimes that imitated these regimes and that made terrible evils. Therefore, I suppose what the outcome of the vote will be, but, behold, I call on all of us to at least speak with caution and responsibility on this subject, and I believe one day some representatives and citizens and peoples in this House will be sitting to do this precisely for the sake of these peoples and citizens. The word has an MP, Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7626	Thank you, Chairman. First, let me say that this is the most sensitive subject that can appear in this congregation, the question of history and direct events that have occurred in the immediate past and that we are all witnesses here. The promoter just said that he knew exactly how anyone would react to this law. I am sure that he knew that representatives from the RS would react to this law, and this is more under question the motive of proposing this law. So this law is not proposed to be adopted, because the promoter knows that this Parliamentary Assembly will not pass. The motive of proposing this law is to try again on victims and in the history of profit which political point. And that's one in a series of political phenomena here that keeps bringing us back to the past. And it's no secret that we see this direct history in different ways, and it's no secret that anywhere in the world there's some historical, time-distance to get to... Here, the chairman said earlier that he visited Jasenovac and that 1,100 Bošnjak were killed there, I don't know, 4 thousand and some Hrvat, but the chairman did not say how many Srbin were killed there. You're a historian, do you know how many Srbin were killed? After 41 years, you and I disagree on how many Srbin were killed. Here, I invite you, as historian, to say how many Srbin were killed when you know how many Hrvat and Bošnjak are. Therefore, the truth needs a historical distance. I claim that as Srbin and RS, it is in the interest that the truth is found, that those who killed innocent people are responsible for it. Here, I ask you all, do we agree on the number of victims of the last war? 100,000 people have lost their lives in the past war plus, minus 4 or 5 grand. And the party's president proposing this conclusion claims that 250, 300 thousand Bosniak victims in BiH were in the past war. One is war propaganda, and now that we're having a discussion about history and the number of victims is a political abuse of victims. And here, I'd like to appeal, so I'm not going to cause any replicas, to be, to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7627	I don't have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7628	...no, here I would give you, if it were up to me, I would give you the right to a replica, if we didn't keep coming back, not looking back, not looking back at wounds that won't be productive in the future and that won't bring a better life to our children. Of those 100,000 victims who fell here in the past war, which in battle, which is what civilian victims, which I don't know, 30,000 or about 30,000 are Srbin, is one third of the total victims in BiH. And that was about the percentage of the population that lived in BiH before the war. So, the Srbin got hurt here, here's to say, like everyone else. But I think it's counterproductive to measure the victims. The pain of every mother who lost a child is the same and we all know it is. I urge you not to abuse the accident because of political points or some future political concepts. And I know perfectly well that you all understand what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7629	Since my colleague Bosić spoke directly to me, I will only repeat one thing. I invited us all to be not only politicians, but statesmen as well. Politicians only think about the number of votes, and statesmen sometimes think about the future, not just how it will go in the elections. So that was my general call. And the second general call is to try and talk about this in a way that we don't open painful wounds, but to try, if at all possible, something to prevent in the future, to make every collectiveity and every individual feel safer. I think it's unfair for anyone to enter, including, of course, a colleague of Bosić and me, into this statistic. When I illustrated with the number of victims of Hrvat and Bošnjak in Jasenovac, I just wanted to say that fascism has no borders, it kills both its own members and other members. But since you asked me directly, I'll give you a direct answer. There are different statistics on Jasenovac. Franjo Tuđman presented the data, and that's the minimum data that meets, out of 50,000 killed, some have spoken between 200 and 300,000 killed and even more. Kočević and Žerjavić are the most serious scientists who have dealt with this, and now that I have been to Jasenovac, I have brought here to the Parliamentary Assembly a large black book where there are over 82 thousand, name and last name, the date and from where people were killed, noting that it is not the ultimate number of victims. However, it is really inappropriate to enter any 42 statistics because my life motto is as follows: Whoever kills an innocent man, as if he killed the whole world, who saves at least one, as if he saved the whole world. The word has Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7630	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues, I listened very carefully to you, I knew that there would be this point on the agenda and I remembered, much I remember, in none of your discussions, the polemics, I didn't hear the judgment that was the most terrible and most difficult in this world if it wasn't said. Because the greatest crime of humanity, from his great-grandfather, with the most terrible consequences that will never be solved, because he is in the eternal movement and constantly commits new crimes, it's called war. He's the cause of what we're hearing and talking about here today. And the consequences, my esteemed colleague, who has spent, I can only imagine how difficult moments as a camper, and I, from whom this war has done what you see, are the living witnesses of this most terrible crime of humanity, no one can stop him. The famous poet Kipling wrote a Kipling in one of his works “In the assembly of dead warriors”: “We warriors from the beginning of mankind are cursed from now on until eternity.” Based on those two verses, the famous Džems Džojs wrote one of the greatest war books that is just as it is called "From Now to Eternity". It's going to take so long for interpersonal conflicts, because it's a curse of the human race. Why are we arguing about the bill? Just to be honest with each other, don't be mad at me, my dear colleagues, dearly respected, you know how much I appreciate you, and my colleagues from the RS, not to mention the word genocide of this debate wouldn't have happened. It is a painful point, unfortunately. However, the meter, and the measuring bodies that established it, proved it, explained it and announced it had happened. But if for a moment we put aside that terrible word and those terrible consequences that are genocide over one nation, then we can mention this another. He's right, Mr. Chairman, he was cursed from now on to eternity, and I say, every man who dirtyed his hands with innocent blood. Being a warrior is no shame, it's a terrible condemnation, but being a warrior and being a criminal is the most terrible condemnation in the world and the greatest curse that will follow him for the rest of his life, whoever he is. That's what this is about. No Niko has the right to deny any crime, any murderous innocent victim, from now on to eternity. Believe me, you know I speak from the heart, from the soul. In 1953, I was eight years old, spent every summer until the end of the elementary school in Mrkonjic City, a month, a month in my then Banja Luka, because I loved her terribly, I had many relatives and the most beautiful river in the world, called Vrbas, is what brings me back to the age of youth and the time when I was happiest, when my wounds hurt me most. But why do I mention the grad of Mrkonjić? Like all kids, we loved kicking those old rags, we didn't know what a football was, but the result of the terrible war was still feeling. The collapsed Orthodox church, next to the old high school in Mrkonjic City, had a large field behind it, which was a children's playground for all children from Mrkonjic City. And one morning, when we came to play ball, we found a large number of militiamen and a large number of citizens gathered to watch something. We, like all the curious children of this world, have broken through between them, through their legs, and seen what I remember today, that image is alive to me, and never, until I'm alive, will come out of my memory. A large mass grave was unearthed, peasants from the vicinity of Mrkonjic, in his traditional peasant uniforms that we seniors know looked like, lying bound by wire, killed, dead. After that 43 was created a Partizan cemetery between Key and Mrkonjic City, but believe me, I've been coming for two years, never a carrot kid played ball on that meadow, ever. He's saying something. And another thing, and this is deeply emotional, human, the greatest tragedy of the Serbian people in World War II is one of those epics called Kozara. One of my fellow countrymen, respected and appreciated, may his ricket, peace and rest be his soul, Skender Kulenović, in a fit, looking at these terrible crimes, in front of the gathered and surviving Serb people and what little partisans left, create the famous term "Stojanka Mother of the Knežpoljka“. I'd like some dear and dear Serbian poet to write something like that about killed Sarajevo children. Don't be angry. I had to say this for deep human reasons. This is my view of your thinking, your thinking and your debate. Remember, each war leaves two types of the most severe consequences, the severe war wounds on the body and those, which are sometimes much scarier and lead people to death, to the soul. I hope my friend Slavuj will get over it and not let Bog turn himself around so it'll be the worst, but he'll live with it the way I live with my own and thousands and thousands of people like me. I'm '99. In the year when the expansion was to return to life of a wartime military invalid, he first organized, with his then team involved in sitting volleyball, a friendly encounter between the military disabled city of Kakanja and the wartime wartime wartime disabled Banja Luka. We sat next to each other warriors, and now wartime disableds, martyrs and martyrs. No ugly word has been heard. And it doesn't matter who won, we won because we didn't blame each other. Some far, far from us made us be warriors, don't forget. I hope you understand and forgive me for being so emotional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7631	The word is still available to counterpart Milorad Živković, deputy chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7632	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, here, as someone who not only came to Mrkonjic once a month but someone who had been born there for 20 years, from all of what the distinguished colleague Bašić said, not only did he see the places he described but he also wondered now when you said that no one who lived in that time had said that this law was needed in that country, that no one had said or raised the issue of genocide in the past, that is, the Second World War that you keep mentioning, and how is it now the time for such a law to apply only the verdicts that were related to genocide in the previous war? I'm saying that BiH's history, the history of genocide, the one who doesn't know it or doesn't admit just stick his head in the sand. This law that has now come to the agenda, and we have had several variants of these laws, not only of this, but of the Law banning fascist, non-fascist organizations, the holiday law, we could conduct here debates as we have led them on four or five occasions on each law individually for three or four hours. And they would say that this law, in this form that has come, let's say the principle of a law in which only sanctions are imposed, and there is no other chapter, is not a law that was passed in this Parliamentary Assembly by nomotechnical principles, that the law is not comprehensive, because its principle is treated only by parts of the minimalization and genocide and humanity, crime, etc., means none of the principles that the legal project should ever come here... I am not talking about what the law is talking about, but I am talking about the principles of this law, did not fulfill what we could do here to support the principles of this law. 44 And the other thing I want to talk about here is the issue of the agreement, not just about the law, but about any project in BiH. Do not think that anything that is long-term can be brought to BiH, which is feasible and time-consuming, without making an agreement between the peoples of BiH. Do not think that daily calls to the High Representative to bring the budget, to form a Council of Ministers, to act daily in BiH means an agreement in BiH – no, that means deepening the crisis and that we from the RS suggest that you do not want to negotiate with us, that you want to pray before the kancelarija of the High Representative for his reaction and that we, in fact, do not need to negotiate here, but to call the international community across the table and to conduct negotiations with it. There is also this law on the background, and the future of BiH and agreements with the international community is clearly on that background, not agreements between us. As long as it works that way, this country won't move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7633	I'm closing the debate on the fifth agenda. Moving to the sixth point of the agenda: Ad. Six. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act The Joint Commission delivered the Report on 5.12.2011. The subject of the harmonisation was the two amendments adopted in the House of Representatives on which the Joint Commission unanimously reached an agreement, amandman I. and amandman II.. You've got it. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the next item of the agenda, 7th point: Ad. Seven. Report on the work of the Research Commission on the establishment of donor funds for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7636	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you've all received a report, he's also in the form of a CD delivered to all interested, so I'm not talking about him. But it would be very important, since it was the ad hoc commission at the time, her term was never over. It is over because fellow members of this committee have not been elected to this assembly of parliament. And here, as I recall from that commission, the Honorable Chairman Bećirović is there and Mr. Šemso Mehmedović, the three of us were members of that commission. Just a little bit, as we form these committees and why we are even coming into this situation that now, here, the end of the year is also this 2011, we are discussing this report that was made up in that term. So, at the end of that term, about two years before the end of the term of office, at the proposal of a respected colleague, Sefer Halilović, we formed the commission, the House of Representatives elected members. So she worked very briefly, so some reports, you see there, and she did. 2.5 billion were admitted by the federal commission, and there's no money there, so around those and... so we just started to unwind. Now, today much more important than this report is that the House of Representatives doesn't have to declare today whether it should work for that commission, whether it should be for anyone, that it should put an end to it once. And if there is no longer the work of any other commission that will continue to work, no report should be adopted at all. What's the big report now if that neighbor's gone? If no one else is doing anything, if the prosecution, the court is not doing anything, what's more important is this report? As if it matters now that Greece has failed, I don't mean state, I don't insult it, but monetaryally, monetaryally. Wait till we see how many Berlusconi are, how many Italys, and so will we, so slowly and what will be used now for some report whether we adopt it here or not. I propose that a proposal be prepared for the next session: the commission should continue to work in some new assembly, with some new names or the work of all possible commissions and the point of donations more and this story is interrupted. Let's get this over with sometime, if at all possible. Or maybe some next call will fall on someone's mind again, I don't know, I never like to use words for some political promotion, no matter what political promotion this is, it's a pathetic promotion. What a promotion here, we've been chosen, no more promotions, we're going to do this right now. But if it was found there, we couldn't trace 275 of the so-called NGOs. The organisation, and the foreign ones, which Interpol can no longer find now, has helped BiH well, but, people, they've washed up billions of dollars. No one will give you this pen for free, only for New Year's Eve or could it be if I congratulate you on a holiday, if you won't get your wallet out of your coat. Who gives you this for nothing without taking anything else away? So where's that, let's get in line, everybody. So, there's been a huge crime done here, we've been captured somewhere, something started, and today we have a report and what we're saying is, we're adopting the report, the report is good, or we're refusing the report. And what happens? Only tomorrow will the media write: Parliament helpless, there are allies in Parliament these... someone... stole. Whoever stole more, I have no idea, the prosecution doesn't advertise, you just get a report in all languages, I don't insult anyone, an investigation in progress, all I understand is either suspended or being. So what do we get with this report, we're just making out, people, we're serious people. Let's just say once, the commission needs to finish working on that and that. And not if we formed it at the end of the term; these are the political goals, at the end of the term – so what they would do, so the commission would do 18 months. And, by accident, I was lucky that I was, for a short time, 12 months, someone left, I don't know, from my colleagues, so they put me in there, let's just do something myself. Not something, except for all these jobs, but let me deal with these problems. But it's obvious, folks, that someone stole a lot of money. And that's why I'd like to have a proposal: the commission continues to work, will be members of you and you, or put 46 points on any story about the cost of donations and stop that. Because we're only wasting ourselves and these congratulatory associates who have done a huge job, never before have the commission, any institution, prepared anything like our co-workers from the CDs. Well, you've got all the reviews, who can't read, they'll manage. But I'm asking you where I'm going to find... through Interpol, here, to discuss the warrant, but we can't even solve our situation here, not to look abroad, where those 275 NGOs who have been harassing BiH here and, of course, have helped, I can never say they haven't, but symbolically, built a house, two, and a people's language -- shut down the rest of the money and the escape. Who's gonna find them now? That's why we're exhausted here, that's how we contribute to doing nothing, that we don't have a goal. We've got people, we've got a goal, I've spent my entire working life fighting thieves, but my misfortune is that I've never seen a thief in prison for anything before. Now, that's an accident, I've never seen anyone answer, a politician, the one with a spending donation, never allowed the building of houses to returnees, water, infrastructure, anything. So please, you have a report, whatever you do, you won't make a mistake, you accept it, you don't accept it, what's important now, there's not even six colleagues, here, I don't know how many from that commission, over. But give me a proposal, if it's possible from the College, which I suggested to you three sessions ago in the initiative, whether the work of this committee continues or interrupts and puts an end to this story? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7637	The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7638	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am also one of the former members of this committee for the examination of donor spending and we have come to very interesting data after a long work, and these data have been delivered to you, as I recall, on the CD. And you can see things from that data. When I say things, but the essence is difficult to see, because most of these funds were not managed by domestic authorities, but mostly by various consulting firms that were foreign origin, who had ambitions to manage the crisis in BiH, so they invested where they thought they needed to invest, so they did what they thought they should do, etc. I told people in the break that there was one case where international forces, by donation of one of the Scandinavian countries, made a bridge on a single river as a means of connecting the people, you know, overcoming these differences. And, of course, the bridge was made after the opening ceremony, and in some ways the public was told that the funds invested amounting to several million euros, that bridge was never used, but after six months it was only decommissioned and taken away, to cases that invested several million in return, and there is no such funds anywhere. Therefore, I stand at the point of view that it would not be true what someone said that this commission was formed solely in order to pre-election activities of certain political parties, that is how some former government spent, stole, etc., I stand at the point of view that it should be in charge, i.e. to form a commission again to work where this one stood. To remove the mortgage once, not only from any political option but from the BiH state. The BiH state at least managed the spending of these funds. And make them answer that they didn't answer. We have sent thousands of addresses to send to whom, how, when, in what form, they delivered donations to BiH. Of course, hundreds of subjects have not responded at all. Some of us can't even make it. For example, foreign embassies or some foreign associations, non-governmental 47 organizations, etc. But in whose determination of the truth, believe this is a very important issue, to take down a mortgage from BiH, like, here, a country where corruption, thieving, etc. I am in the position that this home should adopt the work of this previous commission and make a decision on the formation of a new commission which will define precisely what its powers and tasks and duration are and, behold, I will propose, in that sense, that for the next session of the expert service, a decision on the establishment of the commission with the specified powers and time to be completed. In this way, we're going to take the mortgage off BiH, because, you know, whenever any elections come, then the issue is raised -- so much money has been spent and bid on, I don't know, 6 billion, or 7, as much as this commission has determined, because so much data, up to about 40 billion, which some, I don't know, professor, expert, etc. I ask you, here, to support such a conclusion, that next time we have a decision on the formation of a commission and that the presidents of clubs, or the General College, or the College of this House, in consultation with the clubs, be identified and a proposal for a name, or members of that committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7639	Here, it should be said that the Commission we are now talking about, and its report, is not the first committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In the 2002-2006 term, the Commission was also headed by, I think, Mr Gligorić, as well. Well, in the 2006-2010 term, here, we had a second commission headed by Mr. Halilović Sefer. And what connects both committees, when you look at their reports, you notice that both have faced almost the same problems in the realization of what was set the task. This commission has sent four thousand different addresses of requests to deliver the truth about these donations. Of the 4,000 requests, do you know how many answers we've received? A little over 1,300, 2,700 of those to whom we sent the request did not respond. And that should be the first question why they haven't answered. Based on the replies received to these 1,300 addresses, here is a presentation of 7 billion and more, of 7,086.000,000 donations made. So it's calculated based on what we got. However, even this information, the truth works, cannot be taken as completely accurate, because even among these 1,300 responses that we have received some have not spoken in which currency they have received these funds. So it was very difficult for these people who did this to calculate it. The second thing, one part of the donations are not newly forwarded to BiH, but in natural form, which is also a theme for itself as well as to process the part of the job. We did part of the job. Usually when it comes to commissions, first association, especially the media, how much funds they've received. Here's to clarifying that dilemma, I was one of the proposings, and it seems to me that we all agreed that there was no compensation for working on this committee. And listening to what my predecessors Jovičić and Mehmedović said, I really think justifiable that today we accept this report, accept the conclusions contained in this report and form a new commission that will complete this part of the job. No more reports. Moving to the eighth item of the agenda: 48 Ad. 8. Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission for 2010 I'm opening a debate on the report. There's no record of a hearing. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Commission on external trade and customs for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7654	The problem of the other members is being raised here, given that some members have extended their mandate to 31.12 in the order of Serbia and, I think, from the Croatian people. So, what about it? We are now in a situation that the Commission is not able to work again, or the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7655	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7656	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think that... As a matter of fact, there will probably be these official proposals, but aside from the official proposal, I would like someone here in front of the Commission to tell us when they have been given a mandate, when a session at home has been decided and what is not accepted and who is in office today because no decision has been taken to have a new mandate. [[Disable microphone]] There are such board members. I think that we should once clear all possible dilemmas here, we should call on the Council or this Communications Regulatory Agency, the President of the Council, the Director of the Agency, and once disseminating it and see what we do next. As far as I'm concerned, there's no bother in making this appointment, but I think it's being imposed as necessary. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7657	The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7658	Here, at the very least, the situation is in general alarming. Because you have no legal act here when it comes to the board of directors, and the Regulatory Agency, and the decisions of this Parliament, which are also illegal. So there's a general illegality here, so the chaos of the one we tried to get out of is the best way, although perhaps illegal, etc. So these 52 things have been pulling for years. Obviously there are some forces that dictate outside this situation and here is the real, real chaos, the real mess. I accept this finding by Mr. Džaferović to look at this whole complex issue, in general, but it requires that we return this thing to this committee again and again we will not achieve some agreement there, because we differ in thinking, or even in the concept of legality – what is legality and what is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7659	The word is from Ambassador Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7660	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were at the extended college of this house, discussing today's agenda, making a series of conclusions, it seems unanimous to me, and one of the conclusions was that Mr. Drago Kalabić was preparing one conclusion on this agenda point. I was later informed that counterpart Aleksandra Pandurević would draw that conclusion. Apparently, no colleagues here knew that we were going to go this fast with the rest of the agenda, so I would like to ask my colleague Pandurević to make this conclusion that we adopted unanimously yesterday at the Expanded College.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7661	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7662	Thank you, Chairman. In order not to enter into a barren discussion, I don't know where Mr. Kalabić is, he should have written it, however he didn't. I, here, ask that we agree with the SDA in view of... and with the parties, and with the SDP, since we still have the problem that the mandate of the Serbian and Croatian board members is extended until the end of December. So, in order for us not to suggest maybe to extend the mandate now, and if we don't have support on the other hand, here, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, to agree maybe a joint conclusion. In any case, our proposal is to postpone this item of the agenda until conditions are obtained. And it stays, so, eventually, to consider this because we're going to create a vacuum where the board of directors won't be able to sit down, because the term of the members has expired. So, here's the deal, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7663	At the request of the SDS Club, I'm giving a break of 10 minutes. 53 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing to discuss the 21st item of the agenda. Is there anyone on behalf of the SDS Club, who asked for a break, to explain it to us? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7666	The word has Drago Kalabić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7667	Well, here, I formally have to, given that on behalf of the SDS Club, you asked for a break, to give you my word, so you continue to delegate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7668	Mr. Kalabić will read these conclusions once we agree to the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7669	Word has a colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7670	Thank you. Here, given that this drama team has been ambushed, strengthened by Mr. Džaferović, so the proposal for a conclusion is very clever and looks like this: 'A statement on the appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people's order is being postponed. It is up to the Commission for Transport and Communications to hold a meeting with the management of the RAC and the RAC Council until the next meeting of the House of Representatives, which means to inform this House of Representatives about the results of this discussion, and we will end all other things at the next session." Here, that's the suggestion of a conclusion, so... The last third is Šefikova's, I mean, that's the contribution.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7671	Okay. After this mental proposal, there are no more applications for a debate within the 21st point. 54 Moving to 22. But before we move to item 22 of the agenda, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 22 to 30 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I urge you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority and the necessary entity majority, we have accepted this conclusion. Ad. 22. - 30. Granting consent The opinion of the Commission responsible for external affairs on pollution for all these ratifications has been obtained. I'm opening a debate. Is this a report? It's not. So, I find there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. In 15 minutes, here, we'll have followed the suggestion of a colleague of Živković in 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7674	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-08-0.u7675	Thank you. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session So, I invite you to prepare yourself. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted a 14th-session record. We move to a vote on the 3rd item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Personal Card of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) 55 Here we vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Saša Magazinović, which reads: 'In order to reach agreement on the text of the Amendment Law and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH, I propose that the vote on this law be postponed'. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this conclusion has been adopted by MEP Magazinović. We move to a vote on the fourth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) We vote again on the proposal for the conclusion of MEP Magazinović, I will not read it, it is almost identical. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that this proposal was also accepted by MEP Magazinović. We move to a vote on the 5th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, legislators: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics (first reading) We are voting here on the Commission's opinion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! There is no general majority, therefore the Commission's opinion is not accepted, it returns to the Commission. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Origin Number of Voices on the adoption of the Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we unanimously adopted this report. 56 We move to the 7th item of the agenda: The report on the work of the Research Commission to determine the spending of donor funds of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House Here we will vote first on the adoption of the Report, and then on the conclusions. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I realize we have the necessary general and entity majority, so we adopted this report. We now move on to two conclusions that are quite similar, the proposal for the conclusion of MPs Mehmedović and Bećirović. We agreed to unite this conclusion. So, this formulation of Mehmedović, from my conclusion, we're just inserting 'in 60 days'. Now, please, let's be clear about one conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have received both the necessary and the general and entity majority and that we have adopted this conclusion by MPs Mehmedović and Bećirović. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: The Constitutional Commission's 2010 report. [[Common discussion]] I would ask you, there are already MPs who want something to vote for, somewhere "sustained," we won't waste much time, but to go like that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
