ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7176	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 14th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by MPs Borislav Bojić, Milica Marković, Saša Magazinović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and Mirza Kušljugić. The delay was announced by MP Lazar Prodanović. According to the information service, 32 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the agenda, I want to introduce you that we have downloaded from the earlier proposed agenda - point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH; - Point 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens; (The Constitutional Commission sent a notice on the postponement of the examination of these two laws in 22.11.2011, as the proposal for a Council of Ministers' Law did not deliver an opinion on the amendments submitted - point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, as the Constitutional Commission has requested an extension of the deadline for submitting the report due to a large number of amendments submitted. The House College set 12.12.2011 as the deadline; 2 - point 6. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity; (the Joint Commission for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics has submitted a request to extend the deadline for submitting opinions, because it has postponed the examination of the bill due to the absence of a proposing. The House College set 6.12.2011 as the deadline.) - Point 8. The report of the Joint Commission of both homes on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number, at the request of the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number, which, due to the lack of quorum, could not hold a session. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and I'm realizing that the 14th session of the House has the following. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 13th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a framework law establishing a joint register of NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-2211, since 27.9.2011. (law in first reading); 4. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations for 2010, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01,02-16-1-86711, of 3.8.2011, 5. Audit report on the 2010 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, No 01-16-1-107111, of 13.10.2011; 6. Report on the implementation of the Prevention and Combating Domestic Violence Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2009 to 2011, for 2010, the Council of Ministers' material, No. 016-37-99211, of 22.9.2011; 7. Report on the implementation of the UNSC Action Plan 1325 “Wife, Peace and Security” in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011 for the period 3 from 27.7.2010 to 27.7.2011, BiH Council material, No 016-37-991 from 22.9.2011; 8. The UN's fourth and fifth periodic report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's CEDAW, the Council of Ministers' material, No. 016-37-99311, of 22.9.2011; 9. A half-year review of the implementation of the activities of the Action Plan for the Implementation of Priorities of the document European Partnership with Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 1.1.2011 to 30.6.2011, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No. 034-06-9091, from 31.8.2011; 10. Report on the state of implementation of the Interim AgreementStabilising and Association Agreement for the period from 1.1.2011 to 30.6.2011, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 034-06-9091, from 31.8.2011; 11. Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-06-113211, of 2.11.2011; 12. Information on the Recommendation on HIV, AIDS and the world of work, No. 200 from 2010, International Labour Organisation, Council of Ministers material, No 01-50-19-106511, 12.10.2011; 13. The Commission's 2010 report on an effort to reach agreement on the Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers' material, No 01,02-04-48511, of 03.6.2011; 14. Consideration of the BiH Law Department material provided for the adoption of the BiH Party's MPs' initiative to discuss at the House of the Agenda's meeting "Information of the BiH Law Department on preventing this institution from performing its functions under the law", material No 01-50-3-695-110, of 28.7.2011; 15. A statement on MPs' initiative by Šefik Džaferović "To include in the work plan of the House of Representatives that every month the state of fulfillment of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has on its European, Euro-Atlantic and Security Road will be analysed, No 01-50-19-63611, of 23.6/11; 16. Proposal for appointing members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly (to be agreed on by the Joint College of Both Homes), material number 012-50-3-2-911; 01-05-117/11, since 9.11.2011; 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on the granting of international organisation status to the International Anti-Corruption Academy; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Swedish Trust Fund Grant Agreement (The Water Quality Protection Project and Mostar sewerage) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as administrator of the Swedish Trust Fund; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the National Programme (Part II) for 2010 under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Credit Agreement for the Main City Highway Project in Zenica between the Saudi Development Fund and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Amending of the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) for the Energy Community Programme for Southeast Europe – ECCEE (credit No. 4197 – BOS); 4 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Amendment to the Agreement on the Loan, Financing and Project Agreement of 23 June 2008 for 17,000,000 euros between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loaning), the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Elektroprivrede of the Croatian Community, Herceg Bosna d.d. Mostar (EP HZHB) as project implementation agencies (Agency for project implementation) and Credit Assessment für Wiederufbau (KfW), Frankfurt na Majna – Rehabilitation of the Rama Hydropower Plant; 23. Granting consent for ratification of Amendment No. 3 to the Funding Agreement of 27 February 2006 (European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBH) – Housing Loan Programme - Small and Medium Enterprises Loan Programme) between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and KfW, Frankfurt in Main; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Loan Treaty (A Water and Waste Water Project in Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons against Forced Peters. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 13th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7180	Ladies and gentlemen, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications and has to do with the control of the sky in BiH. The answers I received were, of course, done correctly, but on your attention and attention, Minister Vidović points out several facts. In fact, in the previous period BiH lost cca 300m dollars due to the lack of adequate control of the sky, which would be meant for the development of air traffic in BiH. Every year, BiH loses $78m, some two-thirds of which, or three-quarters, belong to the Republic of Croatia and Serbia, because they are taking control of the sky over our country. Part of the issue relating to the functionality of equipment obtained by the Directorate for the Control of the Sky has to do with the compatibility of equipment in Croatia and Serbia and the answer that this is completely compatible, ministers, expressing doubts that it can rest on the business interest of Serbia and Croatia not to give consent to the compatibility of these equipment, with which we can achieve the control of the sky in some future. And, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of Parliament and ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am also expressing a reserve in the possibility of establishing this control by the end of 2012, as you have answered in your question, from the simple fact that at this time in BiH we do not have a single certified flight controller. This is the information I checked, so it's in the competent institutions. And for their education, it takes a minimum of 18 months right now. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you that in the coming period really this problem which is fantastically large, here, because of the figures that I mentioned, which are therefore going to develop air traffic and release the budget from costs – to provide very significant support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7181	A comment on the answer received is also Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7182	Here is to welcome you, first of all, and to thank the Joint Service and the chairman for the expeditional and rapid response. I'm happy with the answer. But what did I say? There were a lot of questions that I asked before this topic, so I'd like to ask, so these others will be as expedient as you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7183	The word has Amir Fazlić. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7184	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I must admit that I am satisfied with the 9th session's response, but from 9th session to 14th, I always get a succesively few answers, and I believe that my question was such that the directors of the agency could answer it in 10 minutes, so I would ask the professional service to direct the emergency once again for those answers I didn't get from the institutions. Otherwise, there were more questions, so I hope there will be answers by the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7185	The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7186	Dear President, honourable MPs, I am not satisfied with the response I received from the Federal Minister of the Federal Government of the Federation regarding the adoption of sublegal acts in the jurisdiction of the Federal Minister of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry in relation to other laws, specifically the VAT Act, since it is absolutely and roughly derrogated by the VAT Act. Since this is a serious legal legislation, I will send my comments through my club in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7187	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7188	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. I have a need to comment on both of the questions I've received so far. This is... the answer to the question addressed to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and the answer I received from the Office of Representatives/agent of the Council of Ministers before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. When it comes to the answer I received from the RS Ministry of Finance – and to remind me, I asked the question: Who in the RS and the Federation of BiH, and does anyone at all, oversee the credit responsibilities of the local self-government units, is this process under control and what are the problems in this area? – I am pleased with the answers received, i.e. I am pleased that the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia have sent an answer to this question of mine. However, the situation concerning the borrowing of units of local self-government, especially in the Federation of BiH, seems to be serious and appears to be, from what can be read from the Federal Finance Minister's reply, that the process in the Federation of BiH is not controlled in the right sense, because units of local self-government have an obligation to report to the finance ministry, but, as the minister said in his reply, they do not. It would be good, in that sense, to take certain activities because, unfortunately, the direct selection of BiH mayors and mayors is one significant step forward when it comes to democracy, but a large number of these people are not at all competent for this job and bring public finances to units of local self-government that will eventually affect the head, so entities as well as the state of BiH. When it comes to the response from the Council of Ministers' Office before the European Court of Human Rights, we also have a significant problem here. For example, according to the information I received, 7 at the European Court of Human Rights currently has about a thousand and six hundred cases against BiH. Some of these processes have a very significant impact on BiH's movements. It is also an example of Sejdić and Finc's ruling against BiH, so it would be good for the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, to address this issue a little bit, and in this sense, in the context of new parliamentary issues and initiatives, I will refer one initiative to a more comprehensive debate on this issue, which is becoming more and more serious when it comes to the functioning of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7189	The word has Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7190	Thank you, Chairman. I asked a question about going to retirement of government employees, or employees. I got the answer very spotlessly, quickly, and... I thank you for that act, but in response everything is confirmed that I've come to terms with it here. It says here that the law applies, to include an insurance internship, not a job internship. However, it is a general phenomenon in BiH. I would like to warn that state institutions, not only here but also in entities, violate the human rights of citizens, so people who retire. In fact, all employers are counting on a job internship, not an insurance internship, while the law says an insurance internship. Therefore, it must be verified before a decision on the termination of a working relationship is issued whether a retired candidate has the necessary number of years of insurance training. It's according to the law for 40 years. However, this is not determined, but only the work experience is determined. People send themselves: to get their solution, people to retire and wait two or three years for their employer to pay for that job internship somewhere earlier, pay for insurance. And it's a very serious thing. I would ask the ministers who are here to consider it at the Council of Ministers. So it's too serious a question to torture people like that. So, the employer has to check whether the candidate who needs to retire has the required number of years of insurance training, not a job internship, or if he asks that candidate to get his own job job job insurance, years of working life insurance, not simply send it, and that he waits for two or three years, when,... you know how it is with us, the law does not apply, and many employers do not pay the insurance internship and we lead people to the threat of fundamental human rights. It's a threat to fundamental human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7191	This concludes our comments on the answers received. Moving to b) New Parliament Issues 8 Božo Ljubić, deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, applied for the first time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7193	I would like to congratulate today's New Year on all representatives and all BiH citizens who are marking it today. Also, I would like to congratulate all the representatives and all the citizens of BiH on tomorrow's holiday, so November 25th, which celebrates it as a state holiday. And now I move on to the parliamentary question: “What is the Ministry of Defence and Authorities in the Federation of BiH doing or intending to undertake to resolve the practice of discrimination against workers on a national basis in the Igman Company of Commerce d.d. The issue is addressed to the Ministry of Defence and to the authorities in the Federation of BiH. Short explanation: From the documents available, as well as a statement by the company ‘Igman’ d.d. Konjic, it is evident that workers of Croatian and Serbian nationalities are being violated by labour and social rights. First, they alone are not bound by a working internship, unlike the Bosniak national workers. Second, they don't work in their pre-war jobs even though they still exist. They are forced to sign work contracts on the schedule at jobs that do not correspond to their professional preparation under the threat of cancellation. They work as semi-qualified workers, of course, and accordingly they get less pay. Third, mother workers do not have the same rights as their fellow Bošnjakinja. These workers were talking to the union. They have received the answer that they have the right and that it is only up to the corporate administration to recognise their rights and fulfil their obligations. But the employer still refuses to do so. I note that it is a company of 51% state-owned companies. I have here very extensive documentation with statements from workers, documentation, etc. It's about my election base, and I'm looking for an answer, but I won't be satisfied until this discrimination is removed. So this is my message to those who are responsible for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7194	I also have two parliamentary questions. During the Conference of the Western Balkan Parliament Speakers in Budapest, among other things, I had a bilateral meeting with the president of Albania's Parliament, Mrs Jozefin topasti. On that occasion, I learned that there are a whole series of international agreements between BiH and the Republic of Albania that are not ratified because of the BiH Council of Ministers. In this regard, I ask a concrete question: 9 "Why is it stalled by the signing of the following international agreements between the Republic of Albania and BiH: (a) A maritime agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and BiH, (b) an agreement in the field of veterinary cooperation, (c) an agreement in the field of economic co-operation, (d) an agreement on co-operation for the rights of citizens and criminal rights, (e) an agreement on co-operation in the field of defence, (f) an Agreement on cooperation in the field of science, (g) an Agreement on Customs Cooperation?” I ask the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Justice (Min Bariša Čolak), the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (Mladen Zirojević) and the Ministry of Defence (Min Selmi Cikotić). I'm looking for an answer in writing. Second question. I received an extensive item from Mrs. Mijatović-Škondrić-Škondrić Stoje, and the case was named as a protest because of the obstruction of the return to the Sanski Most in the Federation of BiH and I quote, "Denis Bećirović for the help of citizens of Serbian nationality who are usurped property in the Federation of BiH". Here are documents, pictures, court rulings, etc. Among other things, it is said that I intervened when it comes to Fata Orlović in Konjevic Polje, so I am expected to stand up for citizens of Serbian nationality in the Federation. I will not comment on these allegations, except to say that with the same passion, I will equally advocate every citizen's human rights, regardless of which entity it is and whatever people it is. I therefore ask the following question of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, at the state level, so Safet Halilović, and the Federal Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees, Adil Osmanović, and the questions are: “a) Are you familiar with the case of Mrs Stoja Mijatović-Škondrić-Škondric, which refers to the usurpation of her private property in the Sanski Most? ( a) Are the exact allegations of Mrs Stoja Stoja-Mijatović-Škondrić in her memo? (b) If you are familiar with this case, what have you specifically done in accordance with your powers to help Mrs Stoi Mijatović-Škondrić-Škondric?“ As a contribution to the issue I am delivering the complete subject and, of course, I am looking for the answer in writing. The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7195	Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all BiH citizens on November 25th, BiH Statehood Day. I refer the parliamentary issue to the chairman of the House of Peoples, and I draw the reasons for this from the BiH Constitution, which says the House of Peoples is discussing all the topics discussed at the 10 Parliamentary House of BiH. Since the activities of the House of People do not follow the activities of this House, and that delegates in the House of Nations have the same status as MPs in the House of Representatives of Parliament, I ask the Chairman: ‘Why has no meeting of the House of Peoples been held in the previous two months?’ I insist on a written reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7196	The word has Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my question is to the Council of Ministers. It is easy, decadent and reads: “When will the BiH House of Representatives definitely receive a quality report on the subsilence, means a report on the subsilence of the BiH state?” I think the report should be at the House of Representatives long ago. You all know very well what it's all about, I wouldn't have elaborated for long, but it must be known that the BiH state owns in its sub-silence huge material assets worth more than millions of KM, which have never come into its possession, and this sub-silence has never been delivered to us. And, in some ways, he's trying to turn the entity's property into the property of another entity as a state subsilence. These are some games that are played around this subsilence, and it would be really high time for this House of Representatives to get it. The parliamentary question will be referred in writing and I pray as such that it will return to me as an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7198	I thank Ambassador Bašić. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7199	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and to the Ministry of Defence. The companies "Pretis" and "Binas" carried out the destruction of ammunition and MES in the period 2006-2009, which took place with serious failures and non-compliance with positive regulations and procedures. The Ministry of Defence for the aforementioned period does not have the actual quantities of elements obtained and debossed, nor adequate disposals, and therefore is not able to book ammunition and MES. Due to the failures made in the process of destruction, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA is in charge of the investigation. Also destroying 506 tonnes of ammunition and MES, as a pilot project that was supposed to be verified for destruction procedures, made at a workshop in Zenica in March 2010, has not been legally and financially closed to date, as the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH and the sub-commands did not comply with the provisions of the Interim Instructions for the destruction of ammunition and MES. This is also the reason that BiH cannot continue mass destruction of unstable ammunition and MES, which could be a serious security threat to all citizens of the country. Accordingly, I ask that the following questions be answered: ‘ 1. Does the Ministry of Defence have clear procedures for the destruction of ammunition and MES outside the capacity of the Armed Forces of BiH? If he does, why isn't he using them? 2. What happened after the decommissioned elements obtained during the destruction of 506 tons of ammunition, the Pilot project? 3. When has the Ministry of Defence been informed of the disappearance of the 11.530 kg TNT in “Pretis”, (data date)? 4. Why does the Ministry of Defence not resolve the issue of sales of over 1,000 tonnes of decomposed ammunition and MES elements at the site of the Trom workshop in Doboj, which are stored and separated by entity membership? 5. Why doesn't the Department of Defense address the issue of selling explosives to previous deborations? Six. Is the Department of Defense familiar with the Justice Department's opinion on the right to sell debossed elements? Seven. Has the Ministry of Defence made up a full analysis of the gaps in the process of implementing a pilot project to destroy surpluses of weapons and MES, as well as a plan for measures to address the lack of destruction?’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7200	The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7201	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SDA Representatives' Club, I would like to congratulate Statehood Day, November 25th, on behalf of all BiH citizens. I'd like to ask a few short questions. The first question is to the Director of the Direct Taxation Directorate: ‘What will the Director of the Direct Taxation Directorate do to prevent crime and customs evasion at the Regional Centre of Sarajevo, the Customs Office of Sarajevo, as regards imports of Chinese goods, as well as the Regional Centre of Banja Luka, the Customs Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to importing and customsing vehicles? It is a public secret that customs fraud is being carried out here and I am asking the director what it is doing, that is, what will it do to prevent this?” Second question of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: “How much permission and for what kind of goods has the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations given the company "Trom" Doboj? Namely, this company deals with trade and arms of military equipment and the competent ministry of granting such a type of authorisation is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I ask to be indicated which type of goods, means which permits and for what kind of goods this ministry has given permission to this company.’ 12 The third question is to the Council of Ministers: ‘How much is the increase, or reduction of foreign investment in BiH since the appointment of the new FIPA director? Secondly, to provide me with a list of all official travel trips outside BiH of FIPA employees, with travel data, what are the costs, and what are the effects of these trips. Third, is FIPA’s work subject to the provisions of laws and sublegal acts, and were there cases of non-compliance?” The following question: “When will the Council of Ministers begin to implement and implement this law on the retirement of Bosnian-Herzegovina troops, which was adopted two years ago here in Parliament?” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7202	The word has Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7203	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would have two questions and one initiative. I ask the first question to the Federation Government, continuing to question my colleagues, Bašić: “Why has the Federation of BiH not formed a Passive Subsilence Agency, although competitions and formal actions have been completed seven months ago?” If we know that since 2006, there has been a Passive Subsilence Agency, and that certain processes point out in March 2012, it is unclear to me absolutely why this procedure has not been completed, although we know that the weight of the funds is in other republics, both in Croatia and in other republics, where this process has already been actively done and carried out. This issue will be delivered to the Federation Government in writing and I demand the answer in writing. The second question is, ‘How much is the funds of all the Health Insurance Institute funds in the Federation, RS and Brcko District? How many health insurance institutions have allocated funds for capital investments from 2005 to September 2011 for the needs of health institutions and may, in accordance with the regulations of the health insurance institutions, be able to purchase equipment directly from the means of compulsory health insurance? This question is raised because very often it happens that money that insurance companies pay to the Health Insurance Office and which serves to treat patients and finance health workers, their salaries, consumer material, where the depreciation of funds should normally be, but this process, by my knowledge, does not go in this direction but directly from the Health Insurance Office, is being invested in capital investments. And to that end, I want to get an answer in writing from all cantonal institutions, Brcko and RS – what are the funds and how many capital investments have been invested in this period?' As an initiative, I would also like to run towards the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Federation of BiH: 13 Given that for many years the hydroaccumulation potential of the Buško Lake for the Elektroprivred Croatia is already being used, that around 70,000,000 profits of the Elektroprivreda, i.e. the Croatian Electroprivreda on this hydroaccumulation potential...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7204	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7205	Then I'll take the initiative as a new question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7206	All right, thank you, colleague Đugum. The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7207	I have two initiatives and two parliamentary questions. I refer the first initiative to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which concerns the delivery of information to the Parliamentary Assembly on the state of play in the implementation of the digitalisation project in BiH, obstacles and perspectives in the context of the identical process, both in the EU and in the countries of the environment, with dynamics and deadlines. 2015 is close. I also refer the second initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers. I propose, in particular, the rapid development and adoption of new rules on the systematisation of jobs for the Border Police and the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA), in line with the Law on the Protection of Secret Information, as well as with the obligations arising from the Agreement on Security of Information between BiH and NATO Alliance, and the Agreement on Security Procedures between BiH and the EU. Me and my colleague Mešić were at an interesting working meeting on these issues these days, so this initiative is actually one of the results of our knowledge at the meeting. I would like to address the issue to BiH and entity insurance agencies: 'We are witnessing the great difficulties facing citizens in the collection of damages from individual insurance companies. Do you have any idea of this problem, and what you plan to do to get rid of it?" Finally, I would like to point out to the College of the House of Representatives: 'From the material that we received in addition to the 14th item of the agenda, it is clear that the House of Representatives, after receiving the text of information from the Ombudsman in Croatian, or only in Croatian, has requested the submission of the same and in the other two languages. In order for this request, which is, for every commendation, such as that, to remain, for every commendation, it is only necessary to inform me whether it is principled, or whether you have made similar requests in all other similar cases or in other similar cases, to mitigate the impression." Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7208	We've already said at one of the previous sessions that we're not going to ask ourselves questions within this house, but here we go. The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7209	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I will initially submit an initiative on behalf of my colleague Belkić and myself, in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and the initiative refers to the economic situation in BiH as the item of the agenda of one of the next meetings of the House of Representatives as an emergency. Due to the importance of the problem and the need for an adequate response, we propose that the discussions be attended by representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission in BiH, OHR, UNDP, USAID, the Council of Europe. We appreciate the particularly important presence and participation of the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, the Central Bank, the Banking Agency, the Directorate for European Integration and the Directorate for Economic Planning. As the basis for the debate, we propose materials that would be presented by representatives of the IMF, the World Bank and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Reason: The IMF mission was in BiH from 9 November to 22 November. Post-examination and analysis of the situation in BiH revealed findings and prospects for bh. The economy. Somewhere at the same time, on November 15th in particular, the World Bank presented a new economic report for Southeast Europe with a forecast. Status assessments and forecasts for bh. The economic situation by these two institutions, whose full membership is as follows: BiH's short-term economic prospects are weakened; the recovery that started in 2010 is at risk of turning off the right track, as the region is addressing a negative trend from the euro zone; projections of expected growth for 2011 have been reduced to 1.7 and 0.7% for the following year; there is a complete need for policy coordination for effective and responsible challenges; no global fiscal balance framework has been reached and policies for 2012-2014, which is the basis for the 2012 budgets; draft budgets prepared were pre-optimistic from the position of planned revenues. Given that external debt is growing and economic growth is slowing down, a significant reduction in budget revenues and an increase in pressure on public finances is expected. The deficit of the consolidated general... is estimated at 3% of GDP in 2011, which means very little room remains for adaptation for the greater upcoming crisis. Drafts of budgets and so far's moves by entity governments represent a major debt to banks, suggest large bank borrowing. Given that banks from EU countries are mostly in BiH, it is expected that further stress...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7210	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7211	I'm sorry, but I'm not finished. Is there a way to end the argument? 15
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7212	It's my duty to say that time is up, and you're done, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7213	Here's a little more, really. Given that banks are mostly from EU countries in BiH, it is expected that further stress in their home banks could lead to credit collapse and bank opportunities to borrow funds. These pressures on banks further boost the planned move of entity governments. Given that the financial sector is facing pressures with the growth of non-prudential and non-quality loans, it is urgent to strengthen the resilience of bh. The economy. With that global slowdown...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7214	A Koleginica of Hadžiahmetović, so you can deliver all of this in writing, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7215	Then I'll cut it short. Thank you, Chairman. I apologize for my time, but let me just mention that there are too many arguments here for the need for an urgent debate on the economic situation and we expect and understand the importance of this initiative and the importance of its rapid realization. Thank you. And the parliamentary question I'm going to ask in the second...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7216	Okay. The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7217	Mr. Chairman, I have three questions, they've probably been asked so far, but it's no offense to remind the Council of Ministers. First question: "What has the Council of Ministers done and what is it doing to protect our citizens about the old foreign exchange savings in Ljubljana Bank and Invest Bank in Belgrade? 2. Is there a new moment about this problem? 3 Did any of the citizens of BiH exercise the right to repay savings from these two banks?" I don't think there's a need for an explanation because this current topic is repeatedly potent and repeatedly debated. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7218	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7219	So, after years of attempts here at the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples and failed initiatives to amend the Law on Citizenship, i.e. the eradication of Article 17 which was a threat to dual citizenship, i.e. was the basis for the loss of citizenship of a large number of our citizens, and after the appeal of BiH presidency member Bakir Izetbegović, the Constitutional Court of BiH ruled on 23 September 2011 that Article 17 and Article 39 (1) of the Law on Citizenship of BiH were not in line with Article I.7.b) and d) of the BiH Constitution. I believe it's familiar for all of us here. However, given the practice so far and the relationship to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's rulings, I ask the question, more in order to encourage the procedures that are necessary, because the Constitutional Court has ordered that this ruling be implemented within six months, or that the Law on Citizenship be brought into line with the Constitution of BiH, so I ask the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs - have they officially received this verdict and have they taken appropriate actions towards the amendments and additions of this law? And here, I dare ask myself, and I don't know if I can say the word of the College, or the sekretarijat - did that verdict officially and arrive in Parliament, and is that what our working bodies do? If I don't get an answer, I'll ask it another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7220	I thank you for your courage. The word has Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7221	Thank you. I have one question to the entity ministries responsible for the issues of displaced persons and refugees: '1. How much funding has been realised in the first 11 months of the current year for the needs of displaced persons and refugees in BiH? 2. How much implementation funds have been allocated to the municipalities? 3. How much is allocated to the nationality of end-users?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7222	The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7223	Dear President, honourable MPs, I have one parliamentary question, referring to the position of advisers at the level of the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation and the Government of the RS. The latest information suggests that the number of advisors and their payment, i.e. the payment of their work at the Federation government level, is higher than in the same period last year, which surprised me. That is why my question is: 17 'How busy is the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of RS, as well as how much money is allocated annually for their salaries between 2005 and 2010. the year?' I refer the issue to the government of the Federation of BiH, the government of the RS and the Council of Ministers and would request the answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7224	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7225	Thank you. I have two parliamentary questions and one initiative. The first parliamentary question I ask the BiH Presidency, and it reads: 'Why has the BiH presidency decided not to appoint a prime minister for the Council of Ministers, and in what has found a foothold for the position that it will not be included in the process until it has strong guarantees that the candidate for the Council of Ministers has the appropriate support in Parliament? So, on what regulations is this based?' I believe that the BiH presidency cannot be amnested by part of the responsibility for forming the BiH Council of Ministers and I believe that the presidency cannot act as if it were an African-based presidency in BiH and as if this whole story about the Council of Ministers is not concerned. The second question is for the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury: 'How long has it come with the story of the BiH budget and international commitments? What is the ministry doing to resolve this issue, and what is the basis for the misunderstanding of the members of the Fiscal Council of BiH? Also, I would like to clarify the possible model of financing BiH institutions and international commitments in 2012, unless the budget is adopted, and given that we have had funding on a temporary basis this year. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia argues that there is no obstacle to continuing the same in the next financial year, so I would like to know what the position of this ministry is on this issue and ask for answers in writing." I would also like to ask the esteemed leadership of the House, since we are not receiving answers to the parliamentary questions within the time limit that is foreseen, that, if it is in an opportunity to send an emergency for those questions I have referred to and to which the answer has not yet arrived. When it comes to the initiative, offered an answer to the parliamentary question on the number and state of the cases being conducted in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg against the state of BiH, I urge the BiH Parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly to discuss the state of the case against BiH at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg within no longer than 90 days. And with this in mind, I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers be tasked with preparing, within no more than 60 days, full information on the state of the case being conducted before the Strasbourg court against BiH with an assessment of possible implications for BiH. 18 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7226	The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7227	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. I have one parliamentary initiative and three issues for today, of which the first parliamentary initiative for the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Federation of BiH. Since airports in Tuzla and Mostar have been operating in extremely difficult and intolerable conditions for some time, and if this problem is not resolved in a more appropriate manner soon, these airports are threatened with closure, and since the cantonal authorities are obviously unable to organise and finance their sustainability themselves, which includes better quality air traffic development and protection of extremely expensive equipment – I suggest that the competent ministry be able to urgently find an adequate financial and organisational solution, and put it under one supervision. The parliamentary question: 'As the BiH Council of Ministers adopted the Roadmap in 2010 to achieve the conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin, which lists specific deadlines and executions, I am asking what are executive institutions, or the Veterinary Office, the Plant Protection and Food Safety Authority so far have done so far to create conditions to raise and implement standards in BiH so that agricultural products can be exported normally to EU countries, starting with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia?' Furthermore, to the BiH competent ministry, the following question is: 'So, since a significant number of universally educated citizens of BiH, who have acquired professional titles outside BiH and have applied for nostrification of acquired diplomas, but that this process is extremely slow, I ask the question - what is... and why is this process not taking place within reasonable deadlines and acceptable prices?' And the last question to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: 'In view of the assessment of the fulfilment of BiH's priorities for the European Partnership, which provides for the adoption of the laws on veterinary medicinal products, amendments and additions to the Veterinary Law, the Law on Food, the Animal Waste Act, none of which have been adopted, and that the same tasks of the BiH Veterinary Office and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations I am asking the question - what has been done in this area and when will these laws be offered for the adoption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7228	The word has Ismet Dervoz. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7229	... He works as a lecturer at the offerer seminars. [[no microphone turned on]] That's why we have repeated documents, so we have a question. After the information, the same member of the Office, who is otherwise an expert in administrative law and which is then referred to in Article 49. The law on public procurement will again be a lecturer at a seminar for suppliers on 16.12.2011. I remind you that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has asked the BiH Central Election Commission to examine the possible conflict of interest of members of the Office for the Review of Appeals, and it has not done so today. So, questions for the Council of Ministers and the Central Election Commission. I'd like to, with a card for tomorrow's holiday, give you a little initiative. On November 25th, the world also marks itself as the International Day for Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. I would like to ask all fellow parliamentary deputies, at all levels in BiH, that in 16 days, the activists who are ahead of us contribute to the accepting of this great problem and its better solution. In BiH, legislation is one of the best in Europe, but unfortunately it is not implemented and is also not sufficiently in line with the legal provisions of other laws in BiH. Therefore, dear colleagues, I invite you today to pay attention to the points of the agenda that we have which are related to the protection and rights of children, women, and to the protection of all those who need such protection in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7230	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7231	I have, or had three questions, but I am giving up the third question, because I am very supportive of Mr. Purić's question. So, a question relating to the Presidency: Is the Presidency a independent body of this country or leaders dictate with members of the Presidency and you can hardly expect to see the Council of Ministers formed. Is this organ independent and does this organ feel responsible because it is the most responsible for this condition? So, I support this question and I hope we get some answers. My first question is: 'Who determines the schedule of official travels of MPs of the House of Representatives and is there a general act to be arranged?' Why am I invited to ask this question? Since I've been in this House, I've noticed that some MPs have already been five, six, seven times, one and the same travel, going around the world, looking around, etc., etc., not to comment on that. My smallness, though I will travel very little, but I want to be equal with everyone else. So it looks like they're all equal, and some of them, animals are more equal. _________(?) 20 [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7234	I would like to thank my colleague Kunić, who fits right into business time. The word has Boško Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there have already been some questions related to the lawsuits filed in Strasbourg. One of these is the lawsuit already carried out in the case of Duško Karanović for exercising his pension rights in the Federation, which was achieved in the RS, and the court dealt with it positively. Here, Minister Nović, on several occasions, tried to unite both entity ministries and try to solve the problem and, unfortunately, it was not resolved. Now a certain group of people are being set up to re-expose themselves... in Strasbourg. For these reasons, I would like to refer my question to the government of the Federation of BiH: 'What has the government done and what will it do to address the problem between the PIO/MIO Federation Fund and the PIO RS Fund over the 25,000 pensioners who have earned their pension in the Federation, and the rights are achieved in the RS?' I'd like that in writing to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7236	Thank you. 21 The word has Nermin Ćemalović. I guess my colleagues, Đugum and Hadžiahmetović, are mistaken on display. You've been asking questions before, haven't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me welcome everyone present. My parliamentary question has been addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers: 'I would like an authentic interpretation of Article 32. Law on an indirect taxation system in BiH ("Official Messenger", BiH, issue: 44/03).' In my explanation, I quote: Article 32. The law on the indirect taxation system in BiH is prescribed that the Directorate for indirect taxation assumes all movable and immovable property of earlier customs administrations. It is further stated that the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation brings forward a plan to consider the debts and obligations of earlier customs administrations. Therefore, Article 32 of the cited law does not specify who assumes the obligations arising from the activities and the existence of the customs administrations of entities. Since Article 32 of the Law did not explicitly define this question, I would ask an authentic interpretation of it from the aspect of taking over the obligations of the customs administrations of entities. I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7238	Thank you. My colleague Đugum has already used his three minutes so, despite his best wishes, I believe you'll save them for the next session. The word is Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7239	I can't save for the next session, I apologize, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7240	Just a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7241	The initiative can be read because it is in the interest of citizens and this Parliament is in the interest of citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7242	I didn't comment on the initiative at all, I believe it's quality, except for all your initiatives. However, I want to remind myself of the following facts. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 154, at this point in the agenda, each MP has three minutes in which he asks either a question or an initiative. You have taken advantage of this possibility and that is the reason, and this is not only a practice in this term, but a longer period. I hope we got along a little better after this. The word is Mr. Slavko Jovičić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, of course! I ask a parliamentary question to the BiH Constitutional Court. On 27 May 2005, as a representative of families seeking their missing, I received the Constitutional Court's decision in our favour and according to the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court, they are obliged to monitor the execution of their decisions within a year. Having done nothing, it is not a year, it has been six years, following the event, I have filed a criminal complaint with the BiH Prosecutor's Office against the responsible persons listed in the BiH Constitutional Court's decision not only to respond to the appeal I filed and represent the representatives of the victims but to tell the truth about the missing persons who were listed and were the subject of my appeal. So these are two parliamentary questions. It is one thing for the Constitutional Court: 'What about the decision that has lasted for six years, and, I repeat, they were obliged within a year to follow their rules of procedure and did nothing? If the greatest instance of this country, therefore the Constitutional Court, does not follow the execution of its decision, what will I expect of someone else?', that I don't balance anything or insult anyone. And this second, of course, to the D.A., I repeat again, because there are hundreds of times that I will not be understood by anyone: 'What about the criminal complaint I filed against the responsible persons listed in the Constitutional Court's decision as responsible persons to answer my appeal in which I represented the victims seeking their missing? To provide me with such an initiative, regardless of what people are concerned, I will do the same, but here are the missing Srbin in the Sarajevo area who are still wanted and will look for a hundred years if the Constitutional Court is unable to answer me in six years and does not follow the execution of its decision." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7244	I thank Mr. Jovičić. I'm closing this agenda item. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Commission report on efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a framework law on the establishment of a joint register of NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (the law in first reading) You all got the report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. Today we declare ourselves in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. There's no discussion here. 23 Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for 2010, BiH Presidency material
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7247	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I have a proposal to bring together discussions on points 4 and 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7248	You heard the suggestion, I think it makes sense. I'll put this proposal to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7249	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7250	The word has Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7251	... Because each of these dots has a special weight for themselves. [[microphone is not enabled]] And talk together, we'll lose our meaning, especially the part about the audit report. I'm asking you not to do that. We must pay attention to the audit report, but certainly also to this part of the BiH institution's behaviour on the execution of the 2010 budget. I'm asking you not to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7252	Okay. I think it would make sense to unite this on a proposal, and there's a reason why we could possibly do it in case there's a full consensus. It is my opinion that if there is one MP who believes, and we already hear that there is, then we are going towards the established agenda. Opening point four. I remind you of point 4 of the BiH Presidency's report on the implementation of the budget on 3.8.2011, in accordance with Article 130. The Rules of Procedure of the House. The Finance and Budget Committee delivered its opinion on 4.11.2011. The Commission accepted this report and adopted the following conclusion. I will read it: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to return the funds of 540.337 KM, which are in special account in accordance with the decision of the High Representative in BiH, and to inform the Representative's House and Office of the High Representative in BiH of the transfer of funds to the SDS account'. 24 I am opening a debate on this report. Dušanka Majkić first applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7253	Thank you very much. Here, today we finally have this important document that should certainly round the attention of all MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. First, I want to say something about the opinion of the report itself. I am a member of the Commission, but I couldn't be at the session, so I have my own position on this conclusion. I have looked at a little of this decision by the High Representative and therefore certainly should be done, but it should be done by the Ministry of Finance, whose responsibility and jurisdiction, that the SDS is unblocked by the funds of around 500 000 and that I think there is no need to conclude the Parliamentary Assembly, because what is... what is the task and obligation of the Ministry of Finance does not need to be transferred daily to any House of Parliamentary Assembly. So I think this report should be without this conclusion. The other thing I'd like to say is a few views of this budget, which is almost as easy as it is to cross by now. I would like to say that the Parliamentary Assembly has a responsibility over the budget and in many countries the issue of one cent of spending, i.e. the expenditure of institutions is so serious that no state will ever dare to spend one cent past the knowledge of parliaments. That goes everywhere except for us. So I want to tell you first what I think you need to do to make a parallel, that means in the material we see that the total approved budget of the institutions and international obligations for 2010 was 1,360 billion. Total revenues achieved together with debt service in 2010, if the transfer of revenue from previous years is excluded, is 1.20 billion or 88% compared to planned ones. We saw that external debt was 6.1 billion marks, and his service last year was 303 million marks. What's the obvious? That a certain budget deficit appears close to 72 million marks, which says that institutions will have to behave more responsibly in the next period and keep in mind how money is spent, so before we know that we have no budget for 2011, we still haven't reached an agreement on the indicative budget, the 2012-2014 Framework Budget document, and that it all fits the situation, and that the extra expenditure on revenues, this so-called. The budget deficit, they say here, will be covered by expenditure over revenues in recent years. In this regard, I have prepared a conclusion that says "It obliges the Council of Ministers to make an analysis and establish the reasons for the extra expenditure on revenues in 2010 and informs the Parliamentary Assembly." This is the conclusion that came from what we know... that incomes from indirect taxes are growing, so someone failed. Who and why, Parliament would have to know that. The highest percentage of budget implementation is 19 institutions, hence 99% of the Constitutional Court, up to 90% of the BiH Meteorology Institute. But what about the others? It is a worrying situation when it comes to institutions that have the lowest percentage of budget cuts. The Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office has 21% budget implementation, the Educational and Professional Human Training Agency 26%, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, that is to say that this is a new institution and that we have understanding, the Srebrenica Memorial Centre 33%, the Return Fund 25 (joint funds) 41%, the Police Support Agency 41% and the Agency for Forensic Studies and Skills 52%. The Return Fund that I mentioned here had more than 95 million marks in 2010, of which it realised only 41% or not full 40 million, but the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office had a budget of 10 million, 10.2 million, and it realised 20% or only 2.2 million, 8 million left for transfer in the next one, and so on. We know what public administration is, we know that there are strategies that need to be reformed, and we know that there's nothing to do, we know that they live in a very representative space and that there's something to be done on that subject. So 8 million will come in as much as they know for what purposes. So, I think it is necessary to examine, and in this sense I have also made this conclusion here: 'The Council of Ministers is in charge of reviewing the work of these institutions, establishing the reasons for their ineffectiveness and meeting with the findings the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.' Well, I guess somebody's finally gonna start filing accounts for his inefficient work. So the question that immediately leads to a poor budget execution is the question of what they haven't actually done, what their programming tasks haven't accomplished and whether someone can do nothing, be the execution of 20% and therefore have no responsibility at all. What I would also like to share with you is what I said at the beginning, that Parliament is affecting the budget only when it adopts it. And what happens after? So, after all the changes are made within the Council of Ministers, within the Ministry of Finance, and that Parliament has no influence on that. It is unimaginable in parliamentary democracies that one cent can be spent without knowing what it is intended for. I would like to remind you that 100 decisions on the restructuring of expenditure within the budget itself have been approved in 2010. So everyone was planning, most of them were planning more employees, so they didn't hire, so then she transferred the funds, bought new cars, arranged new spaces. So they live like in countries with far richer economies than this one. So the expenditures of institutions under the Budget Law were 1.28 billion, established by the parliament. And you know how much has been spent? It's spent 1,190, so one... billion and 200 million. And when 303 million were added to that amount... of debt service obligations, the budget of BiH in 2010 was almost a billion and a half, 1,495 million. So these are amazing things. The fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly knows an institution called budget rebalance, because it is believed that BiH institutions should receive as much funds as they need for their business, and everything else is the surplus that is the surplus entity. So this is a good way now... to come up with the Council of Ministers, or possibly the Ministry of Finance, to gain greater funds for which Parliament has no influence. I am truly appalled by the fact that that budget was a billion and a half, although it stands, the Ministry of Finance says it is a multi-annual capital investment, but that means that at some point the Parliamentary Assembly would have to give consent at least the first year to know. We don't have that picture... how much the total costs are on that basis, or what the plan is for that purpose, and so it could never be determined. The question is, would we allow one of these institutions like the Coordinator's Office to get $8 million and hold on for a few years, the question is, would we be referring those funds to another purpose? So, the proposal I said is about some, here's a rough look at this matter, to let other colleagues tell them their own. I said that I had two conclusions, I said the conclusions in the 26th course of my presentation, so I think that this should be given due attention and bring this decision-making process, when it comes to Parliament and the budget, to the extent that it requires it – that the Parliamentary Assembly must approve every cent. If he has the right of the Council of Ministers to decide what he will give the funds for,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7254	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7255	Here immediately, if they have the right to chair the Council of Ministers and his two deputies, then one man can make a decision to spend the funds beyond any control. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7256	Comrade Babalj, is it a mistake, a replica or, since you weren't there at that time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7257	Yes, I'm here now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7258	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7259	What is very important to me and can be taken under the line is that I fully agree with the presentation of Ms. Majkić's honourable letter, but I am asking myself a question and replicating. I can't say what happens if we don't adopt the Budget of the Institutions report today? Nothing's gonna happen. So, what we're talking about today, and we could talk a lot, a lot, a lot of things. How in my view is the basic problem of BiH is the Budget of BiH and I think that, I do not owe it, means to ask a question, and to challenge all of this what Mrs. Majkić said: What will happen if we do not adopt the report on the execution of the Budget of the institutions?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7260	Beriz Belkić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7261	Here I am, very, very short, and here's what Darko asks. In normal countries, or in the practice of normal countries, the government would probably fall, is it, when it comes to budgetary matters. I'll do it very briefly. I agree with Mrs. Majkić that the topic is extremely important and deserves a more serious debate, but the reports are conceived in such a way that capacity here in Parliament, including our working bodies, is not such that we can enter into some detailed analysis, because we simply do not have information. But when you look at this data and the facts that you can see in this report, it's more of an argument for that initiative... which we have just launched that it's really high time to discuss the overall economic situation in the country. 27 I have warned and launched some initiatives years ago, and here I am now taking the opportunity towards the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers, that this term of consideration, the timing of the examination of these reports must indeed be changed. We now have a situation that a year... after the execution of the Budget we talk about it, and I know that the law provides for it by 30.6., it seems to me, so here we are late, and that deadline has been broken and, therefore, this data doesn't mean much, because in the meantime, changes have happened and we have, we should have a report in six months, nine months, etc. So... they're not practically up-to-date, they're accurate, but they're not up-to-date. As for the very percentages of the execution and this analysis, which Mrs. Majkić spoke of, it can be viewed in different ways. So this is really about the necessity and the extreme time of the need and the impact review to see what does and the cost-effectiveness of these public funds, the spending of these public funds on individual projects, but there needs to be very careful and see if there are any assumptions that a certain institution can realize what it has planned. If you don't appoint her a director, if you don't appoint her a board of directors, if you don't provide her with certain preconditions, she can objectively do it hard. I totally agree that even in the planning system there's a kind of automation, there's a kind of, say, routine that later really makes a big problem and puts us here in a position to talk. For example, I know by circumstances the situation at the Potocari Memorial Centre said the Potocari Memorial Centre spent 33%, but it's about things that have timing, which require certain procedures, certain tenders, etc., etc. So we can't practically conclude that these funds aren't needed, that they're given for no reason, but we have to go into the details and see. And I totally agree with what's been suggested to see what's going on. Here, and I, when it comes to the proposed conclusion, absolutely don't mind, everything that is legal and procedures necessary for certain institutions to work for us. So, the finance ministry needs to explain, here's the deputy minister. Mr. Deputy, what is this all about, should these funds have already been transferred, why have they not been transferred, and why is Parliament in a position to push something, if it was your obligation to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7262	The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7263	Dear President, esteemed MPs, it is obvious that this topic, which is fundamentally the most important in this House and should be the most important, is not so attractive because we do not understand our function as we should understand it. I absolutely disagree with the view that the problem is budgeting, because there are 50, 60 million missing. He's got money, the money hasn't been used. We've calculated in our commission that over 200 million transferred funds have been transferred from one year to another. So, the 200 million that exist, that have shifted or transferred. So it's a state of play and we can talk we want to adopt, we're not going to adopt the budget, I just think we just need to name something that's absolutely inappropriate. It's inappropriate to make a decision without anyone making any bills. On all the committees we have a discussion on, I'd say bile discussion and debates varying in terms of each budget item, from space, telephone, oil consumption, these are terrible assets where blocks are created. If you say it's wrong to spend and rent 28 magnificent spaces where they don't need them, then you're against either the state, or you're for the state, for destruction, which absolutely doesn't have any rational foothold. I personally think that committees, and unfortunately I'm the president of a commission who analyzed it and realized that there's enough money in this country, but they don't know how to use it, and I'm thinking that we need to make some conclusions. If anything else comes seriously to this House, even if we feel like we're wondering about something else when it comes to the budget. I'm afraid that today we should just make a decision, because we are constantly getting through the media into a situation that these MPs are not doing their job and they won't make a decision, which is absolutely not true, it's absolutely not true. And so I ask you that, what Mrs. Majkić was saying, we really accept some of her conclusions as something that is the essence of the problem. Here is Mr. Beriz Belkić, probably Mr. Lozančić will say the same, but my opinion is that... this topic deserves to be sitting here and Minister of Finance, his deputy and all those relevant people who later solve the budget in a non-transparent way. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's done in a nontransparent way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7264	Thank you. I remind you, given that counterpart Kabil and the president of this commission, we have only received one conclusion from this commission and that you as a commission are asking the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to return funds to the SDS. You didn't deliver anything else as a commission when it came to conclusions. Here you go, Comrade Kabil.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7265	I think that when it comes to the delivery of funds to the SDS, we have only registered what must be returned by law and we have referred it to Parliament, and I see absolutely no problems there. As far as these conclusions are concerned, I think about these topics this committee, or Members of Parliament, should make, I would say, and there was our unique conclusion in, I would say, democratic debate – to draw certain conclusions. Because it has much more weight than the commission itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7266	The word has Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7267	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, so here we have today's Report from the BiH Presidency on the implementation of the BiH Budget and international obligations for BiH for 2010. This is the material that was on the agenda of this committee, so by discussing it and discussing all of this – which may have been said here in a small part here at the session, but here, and you all have this report – made this conclusion, or two conclusions. The first conclusion is 'to support this report'. That's the first conclusion. And the second conclusion is, here's what we're told in the commission's work, 'to carry out one of the obligations', so to speak, 'to the SDS', which I don't think is questionable. 29 I will not talk much about the content of this report. You all have it and it is essentially the inventory of spending budgets in 2010. Today is 24.11.2011, and this is the 2010 Budget Report. And here, I dare predict a little bit, I guess next year we'll be relieved, we MPs, that we have one or the same agenda, because we don't have a budget so we won't even have a budget score, so it's still good that we don't have a budget. So we're not going to discuss this at all how it was spent, because it's being spent on temporary funding. What we can say here, I and this report and any other I view exclusively as the right of the House of Representatives to exercise their control, supervisory function over acts adopted by the House of Representatives. Looking at this report, it can be concluded that this budget has been spent in line with what the House of Representatives and the other home has adopted, and there is nothing disputed about me. If we've adopted this budget well, that's the second question, did we adopt good laws that prescribe ways of spending budgets, that's the third question. And these are the topics we're mostly discussing here, but there's not a lot of suggestions to change the situation. I, about three or four months ago, referred a parliamentary question asking the author, BiH Presidency: Is he going to propose a budget to Parliament this year at all? I didn't even get the answer to think or not to think, so here's what I don't know and the rest of you can figure out whether or not they think. Today, I had another parliamentary question: On what basis did the Presidency give up on each other's constitutional obligations? The presidency is angry with us, it gets angry with Parliament when it doesn't adopt everything it sends and then says I won't even deliver it to you anymore. I figure that way, I don't know, I don't have another answer. The fact is that in this report, if it is looked at in a quality way, what one of my esteemed presidents of the Commission has said, the esteemed Kabil, is that we transfer significant financial resources from year to year. It means that we do not implement the established budget from year to year and that it is based on it that these funds are transferred, not because they are not planned for needs, but because someone has failed for some reason to realize them. Whether they were too ambitiously planned, whether our resources that should allow the projected budget items to be realised... so we fail, but here I'll just remind one of the questions, it seems to me that with barely 50% if not less that realised capital investments, and constantly, I think in the last five or six years, certainly, it doesn't pass a month that someone doesn't even talk here in this house about how we have a tremendously large allocation to rent space. I suppose this problem can only be solved by quality capital investments through the provision of adequate space for all the institutions we have. We also have indicators and phenomena that certain areas that have been purchased, so here's what I'm saying, bought under very interesting circumstances, we have indicators. So the indicators are correct, we can't say that the false state was presented to us through this report, they're correct. The fact that we've allowed every director of the agency to hit itself with the cost of renting space, it's not wrong either, the presidency, I have to say, unfortunately, not even the Ministry of Finance. So, we've allowed it through legal solutions that in this country everyone decides how to, let me put it that way, it's going to be a will to spend some of the funds that are intended, here among other things, to rent space. The fact that significant funds have also been allocated in 2010 to many items that we very often do on a daily basis through similar discussions here in Parliament, but we do not make decisions, we do not make regulations to limit the consumption of these funds. I mean the resources from the team, I mean the means of transportation from work to work, I mean the use of multiple cars. However, this is all prescribed and whoever manages the budget has the sole obligation to enable the budget to be implemented, in accordance with the law and with the applicable regulations. Is that good, eh, it's 30 to us here. We are responsible if the budget is not good, we are responsible and if it is not spent as planned, because we are the institution, that body that ultimately, and when it does not like our proposings, those who bring or do not bring the budget as proposed. So I think that this report on realisation of the 2010 budget, I'm still experiencing it, first of all, should serve us all as one good material, as a good basis for our decision on which and what budget we will accept for 2011, if we are lucky to get a draft budget at all. If it doesn't, then we probably won't need to talk about this, or discuss similar topics, and then I don't know, I can't predict whether there's going to be a budget for next year, because it seems to me that the budget from the previous year is this basis and for the temporary funding for next year, so here, I don't think there's any need to draw any conclusions, because you know, when we're making conclusions, so we invite someone to do their job, a little bit of that turns out anachrono. Perhaps a friendly recommendation, if you can say so, to the BiH Presidency that, at least at the end of this year, it delivers a draft budget for this current year, so that at least next year we may have the opportunity to discuss the implementation of an act that is... important, very important and why governments are passing or falling. We obviously won't have that much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7268	Last reported for the discussion Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this budget was passed in the previous assembly of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the House of Peoples, of course. So he's adopted and here we have a report on the realisation of the budget. Exactly, as many have said here, it is the thing where the government falls or survives, or the Council of Ministers, or Council of Ministers, or executive power, the one most responsible for the execution, because most of the things apply to that part. 71 institutions at the level of the BiH state that spends this budget, 21,067 employees, 1,996 vehicles. 2,000 vehicles, so only at the level of the BiH state. The truth is that I am here as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and I was also in charge of certain two institutions in depth to see how they spent money. About the money was spent as planned, not with a lot of deviations. But one truth that is that, for example, an institution like the Administration for indirect taxation in Banja Luka that has 2,000 people has not adopted an organisational scheme. She was proposed to the Council of Ministers, no, so I had information, then what we have to say and how we move on, so they're on their own. Of us from Parliament, therefore, have the full width to do exactly, here is what Mrs. Majkić was saying, I agree with her finding, but we allowed it to do so. And especially, what's most important, what's going to happen, as they say here, if we don't adopt this? Nothing. So, then it was pointless to discuss it. But here's one more thing to say, these funds, this conclusion that we've made, I've been abstentioned to this conclusion to stand out, so order the Ministry of Finance to do its job this Parliament has no need. With the decision of the High Representative, the Ministry of Finance has to end this. That's it, thank you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7270	Mato Franjičević also applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7271	In judicial compensation. Well, I've been thinking about whether or not this should be disturbed at all why I decided to do it anyway. In fact, getting acquainted with this report, I've encountered a problem. The problem lies in the fact that one significant number of tables that are in this report in this material, especially in this first analytical part, is mostly unusable, at least in the version of the material that I received. And I think that the services that multiply materials should take into account the legibility of copies so that we MPs can't find each other, neither guilty nor due, in the position of speculation or belief that something like this or something like that, because that position of course does not guarantee that we will build rational and clear views on a specific matter. As far as this point is concerned, I will, based on information from the text section that is clear and legible, raise my hand to this report, hoping that none of what I have left hidden in this table information could make such an attitude wrong. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7272	The word has been made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Fuad Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7273	Honorable President, honourable Vice Presidents, distinguished MPs, ladies and gentlemen, esteeming your time I will be as short as ever. The first thing, this house adopted the 2010 budget, was given to the institutions and the Council of Ministers to implement, spend or implement the budget. Today you have this report on this adopted budget and realization. Behind this point is immediately the point of the Office of Audit, meaning the revision of the execution of Budget, whether or not. It doesn't necessarily mean that you all MPs are experts in finance, for the budget and that. So today you have practically, as I would call it, statistical indicators, approved for these purposes 100 grand, spent 80, 90 and so on. Whether there have been legal irregularities in spending this budget, it has a competent institution and that is the next point and will say that it has been spent or not. The budget as it was adopted was approved by the institutions to spend it or not. It repeats the question often, meaning the transfer of funds. I ask you, to remind you that you all live here in BiH and you know what the political situation is, it does not last today, not yesterday, but lasts for years. You know that the budget of the BiH institution since after the war has only been adopted once in time. What does that mean? So now, if we get another 10 billion for 2011, we can't spend it, we have to transfer it in the next year. What's important about that transmission? The important thing is: it's much more important not to spend it properly or to break the laws so that those funds are spent, than we carry them on, they're not going anywhere else, they're making budgets for the next years. So you saw the 2010 budget you're considering, it's planned with a deficit of 72 million, but it's also planned that from the past those years that we transferred that deficit to make up for... As far as many donors are concerned, here's the public administration reform, it seems to me that it's most frequently mentioned, it's donor funds, and she, if they don't spend it, we have to transfer them in the next year. I repeat, it's about donations. As for many other things, I repeat, 32 live in BiH, you know. If there is only one indication for all these years that only once the state budget has been adopted in time, you realize that we can't realize the others, that there's non-transparent spending, there's everything, but that's why there's the Office of Audit and there's a need to insist on it. I'd like to tell you something else. I am concerned, and today is November 24th, that none of the MPs, nor does your Finance and Budget Commission know that you should have received a draft budget from the BiH presidency on November 1st. So that none of you take these measures, because now we're talking and you're wasting time on some statistical indicators that the Audit Office is going to say -- yes, there's crime here, there's no crime, and it's okay. I remind you: that in 2011, since we have no budget, we have temporary funding, the law says the following - temporary funding can go, so you take one quarter last year, and in 2012, so we don't have last year and this is an interpretation officially, and 1.1, if there is no kind of budget, you have to put the key in the lock as far as the vault is concerned. I'm worried that there's no more controversy about it. Furthermore, as a man and as an economist and as someone who is very transparent and in this Council of Ministers, I am concerned that no one says that for years, so here in 2010, this country throws 28 million for leases. It's this big building one, every year we dump it, so our institutions in the basements are that too. It's like that for me, I'm not here to teach you MPs how to do it, but I'm really worried about it as a man. So there's an audit, she's gonna say if this report is okay, it's not, there's no mistakes, there's no, and we're here. But these are the key things. I ask you to reach the conclusion that you are asking the Presidency, he was supposed to deliver the 2012 budget to your benches on November 1st, so if you're going to talk or not about it, I don't care. I'd like to know, I'd like you to adopt the state budget, like the rest of us, in time, if we had a year, not to be called to transfer funds, etc. And about that transfer of funds, I ask you all to know that there are no more of these savings. Everything we've been saving we've already done in the past budgets, and that's why the state budget is a problem. I was the only one and in my ministry opposed, it happened in 2010, just this year, we had savings until then, and I was against it, I knew which way the state was going complete. I mean entities and this, we come into one recession, now there's no funds and because they think the state is the weakest link – we're the only ones who don't get the budget, etc., etc. Here I will finish, briefly, I ask you two things, ask the Presidency of the State, on November 1st he should deliver you the budget, as he is, you are there who will either reject him or adopt him. And the other thing, make the Council of Ministers, this year 32 million rents, is, I'd be ashamed to be an MP, and I'm ashamed to be the deputy minister in a country that throws so much money, and they all know, with Mrs. Majkić, I've taken it from this Parliament and asked this question to be resolved. Take just 10 years and see how many millions we've thrown away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7274	First replica, vice-president, Mr. President. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7275	Thank you, Chairman. My koleginica Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, believe that I am also ashamed, and by the replicas that appeared after this discussion that the shame of many MPs is because we have 33 such Councils of Ministers and in this way we are talking about a subject that is not even a part of the agenda. We've heard a lot in this discussion, and before that, and a lot of things that have nothing to do with the agenda. I will remind you, Your Honor, that, on my proposal to the Constitutional Court, that BiH can no longer be funded after three months, and the Constitutional Court has accepted my measure, you were saying that Živković is destroying BiH. If it hadn't been for that, Your Honor, this BiH wouldn't have had any funding after three months and just on the basis of what I've done in BiH this year you're extending every three months... So, then you were speaking politically, not economically, financially, professionally, which should be your answer to the MPs here, not to interfere in politics. In that same response, the Constitutional Court said that BiH as a state cannot remain without funding. And if you stick to that sentence, you, as a Council of Ministers and as a Resolute Ministry, can go to the government, or the Council of Ministers, and make a decision based on such a decision by the Constitutional Court on further temporary financing and no longer interfere in politics. If you know anything about accounting, I believe you know, stick to pens and papers and stop running politics on the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7276	Replica, Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7277	Three things. First of all, it's not in place, Mr. Deputy, these words are shame, and it's not shame, and this and that, everyone has their own individual responsibility, and if your shame is me, it's not shame. Why am I not ashamed? That's why everything you've been saying here we've been looking for on the Finance and Budget Committee, and you, Mr. Deputy, along with your minister, have not been able to come to any session of the Finance and Budget Commission. Are you talking to your colleagues? And what you've been talking about, we've been talking about in the Finance and Budget Committee. So, question: Do you talk to your assistants and do they tell you what happened on the Finance and Budget Committee? That's what worries me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7278	Replica, Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7279	Thank you. Oh, I'm thinking, I thank the Deputy Minister of Finance and his colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH for suffering, here, a debate on something that is not their document at all. But here, following the responsibility they feel in this document, came to offer some information possibly additional, etc. We don't have reporters here on this document. The report is submitted by the BiH Presidency, not the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. And I congratulate Minister Vrankić for not coming in this public, even though I don't know what he didn't come in for. So we must finally face the fact, it is true, Mr. Lijanović, that governments fall when they are not adopted, but in normal states where the government proposes a budget. With us, the government does not propose a budget, nor does the Council of Ministers, and call it whatever you want, nor does the Ministry of Finance. We have a surrogate, we have something that doesn't exist anywhere else in the world. We have the Presidency proposing a budget, but they won't come to defend him here. The Bureau is also proposing this report, but it won't come and explain it. The Bureau won't propose a budget and nothing to anyone. And now 34 is the easiest, don't get me wrong, here's the deputy minister, the assistant minister, one, the other, the third, let's eat all our food, since the presidency doesn't even farm 5%, search us on them. Well, it can't be, it can't be. Let's change the rules, I was just saying, I was trying to say what I'm saying right now. One of the illogical rules is that the Presidency is proposing a budget, it has nowhere else in the world, see if there is, except in the presidential systems where the president of the state and the head of government are. It's not like that for us. Therefore, do not mix pears and apples. I said a little while ago, there were suggestions that we should conclude that the presidency would start doing its job. And I think if not, this is ridiculous, I think we'll come to the conclusion that the day after tomorrow they start coming to work, we can do that. So now we can sort out such conclusions, it's a constitutional obligation. Unfortunately, no one is responsible in this country for failing to comply with constitutional and legal obligations. And let's not talk to those who do, but I say to them again that they're challenged to come here, here's to help us if we need some information to give us information, then waste, here's my, I don't know what to say, dissatisfaction or anger. A key institution for submitting this report, a key institution for proposing a timely budget, thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, for reminding this House that we should have already received the draft budget for next year. Here, I reminded you that we didn't get a proposal for this year and that we only know who we're giving our remarks to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7280	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7281	So, I'm sorry we didn't get an answer to any of the questions that came here. So I was expecting someone who could analyze the execution to answer some of the questions that were raised here, especially that question about that deficit. You can't say in reply from the deputy minister: here, the audit did its job, so if something seems wrong, ask the review. The budget is not the property of Parliament until it is adopted. The moment we proclaim him, he's our property and we're responsible for him. So that responsibility, logically, is being asked here as a question. We can't take responsibility for anyone but you until they adopt. And that's why we have the right to ask, and that's why you're responsible for telling us everything we don't understand. And Parliament is not spared that it can be applied in this way as some say, we have responsibility for both budgeting and its execution. I'm sorry this is how it went. I just want to tell you that the question of yours regarding the lease: you could also, as you referred to the audit, also direct the audit because they are soon preparing to offer an impact review for space, so you will get information along with Parliament, but in the future you need to give us more concrete information on what our issues are.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7282	Replica, Slavko Jovičić. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it doesn't last a country, a nation, or this Parliament since this session. I just want to remind you that in the last term I proposed two initiatives and the House of Representatives was supportive, and now I don't just know how many times I've said it: that BiH is in credit for 200, if it has to be, millions, so that we have our own buildings, our institutions, that we don't pay this rent that we're talking about today, that from 28 million to 32 million, as I understand it, and the first year of office was 16 million. And then the next question goes: Who needs these institutions? When we discussed some of the institutions here formed by either the Council of Ministers or us what their task was. So I asked, not a parliamentary one, but a rewarding question for someone to answer me how many of those institutions we have. So I've been asking all kinds of questions, here and now: Does anyone know how many cars are on the road that this country is paying for? So I get answers from one institution, the other won't, the third, the fourth, so what can I do anymore! So does anyone know how many cell phones are being paid today? Well, if we'd given the social services stamp, we'd have saved two lives for those poor and countless things here! Whatever we bury, we dig something up. But I don't want to, it's not real, it's not even fair, that I'm giving criticism to any man who isn't responsible or that man says, is it a shame for MPs to be in this state? I'm ashamed of everything, but it's a matter of responsibility, we can't take responsibility for what we didn't do. And we're not to blame for many things. What we need is for the Official Journal to pay a square meter, when it was bought by 5 thousand, I don't know how many marks or euros, they don't even matter anymore. Who did he make such a deal with? And the only profitable organization that makes any revenue because everything that's published there has to be paid!? And when you open it up to whoever gets there, here's again a reward question from me, I'm buying it, to get there what it found, and countless things. But we have to have one thematic session to open up the functioning of this country, but that's not the problem we're talking about today. And I don't want to take responsibility for the deputy, or the minister, or I don't know who, individually, when they're not responsible, but I'm not responsible either, you're not the other colleagues. We're all responsible, and at the end of the day when nobody's responsible for anything. So what do we do next, people? 32 million for rent, which rent, who sits there!? There's an institution that people don't come there for 20 days and nobody asks them why they don't come and they take huge money. I want to fill these lines here first with this, every session of one institution, to ask them personally what they did, what they did for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7284	I just want to remind you, so the agenda point is the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2010. I see there's still a large number of people reported for replication. If you do, replicate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and tell us what you are replicating. The word has Danijela Martinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7285	Thank you very much. So, now that you've said what we're replicating, there's been a lot of these statements by Mr. Deputy Minister who primarily refer to the Finance and Budget Commission, so I'd like to join my colleagues' views and repeat that we're these problems, which you thought we didn't have problems with, so far we've had problems with them. There might be fewer of these critical reviews both from 36 of yours and from our side to include us actively as a commission in budgeting. As Mrs Majkić said, we as a commission, and of course Parliament, are not only obliged to accept, or reject, the budget, draft or draft budget, but to actively engage in all stages of budgeting, so that we are not brought before the final act when we have to accept or reject a certain budget. As a commission, we have both the right and the duty, the stated duty, because in the end we will be the ones who will be responsible. So I urge you to include us in all stages of budget-making. Also at one of the sessions of this committee, I told the gentleman... and asked you to start delivering our analysts. Based on analysis, we can see what the funds are intended for and what they are used for. Then there won't be these situations if we have a transfer of funds from one item to another within individual ministries and agencies. So in order to avoid perhaps future misunderstandings, I would like you to consider this observation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7286	Replica, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7287	So, Mr. Deputy somehow managed to open up a new time to discuss the report on the execution of the Budget Institutions which is not bad, after all. When it comes to Mr. Lozančić's discussion, which I agree with in the larger part and he is absolutely right, however, there is another dimension, so it is up to us to consider the materials without the proposal. The proposal is the Presidency. To the Ministry of Finance, whether, as the practice has already shown, it will assume on itself the role of the Bureau's spokesman. So, apart from the processors, we need to know that the Presidency is absolutely not competent in terms of personnel training or structure in the Presidency itself to do these jobs. And so, the Ministry of Finance is silent, so to speak, in some agreement it took on itself, not only does it have a commitment as a processor and a material creator, but it's kind of a lawyer for all these materials. And that's the situation. So it is up to us to next time consider this kind of material without the presence of the Presidency, that is, the person they empower, and generally the Presidency is authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Mr Kasumović, it is not true that there were no initiatives here when it came to the 2012 budget. Only we in the SBiH on three or four occasions were moving, looking, asking and receiving answers to have talks at the Presidency that it was trying to get along, etc. And I finally didn't get an answer to the question I asked you about the conclusion of this commission regarding the transfer of funds to the High Representative's decision to the SDS. Did you switch, why didn't you switch, whether to transfer, not to have Parliament here without information deciding on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7288	Replica, Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7289	Honorable President, honourable MPs, I am, I must admit, after all these replicas in an even greater dilemma of what is and what is the function of the Finance and Budget Commission. According to the Deputys' report, it is obvious that the Commission is not doing well, because no one in its report has received measuring people who need to propose a budget. 37 When I came to the President of the Commission, I asked what are the most common people reporting according to certain items, certain members, they told me that never since this House has been present, no one from the Presidency has come to report to this committee or any president of this Commission and its members on the budget or the next budget. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I'm sorry, but they told me, maybe this new secretary didn't know. So it's obvious to carry the ball from one side to the other. I personally think that no one from the Bureau will ever come and give any report related to the budget this year or any other year. So this is an established principle, and this is what I would say, the deputy, or deputy finance minister, to invite members of the presidency, in my opinion, I must disappoint him, there's no way. Is this the way we're doing good or good, I don't know. Therefore, I do not want to accept the slightest responsibility why this 2010 budget is not accepted, we will vote today and adopt it, and even less responsibility why this budget will not come for 2011. So this is some sort of starting point with all the problems that we've openly highlighted as a commission, and even had... situations when we've analyzed certain things that are obviously no longer to be discussed here, because if you're discussing you're against something. And it was my replica or wish for the deputy minister, like, let's say, and with his minister, the most competent people of a particular resources to come and tell us what the current situation is. And I personally think that the current financial situation is not so bad, it's the problem of distribution and use of funds. Now, that's what we're talking about - the use of resources that are catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7291	Replica, Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a replica to all those who are in one offensive to the Deputy Minister for the simple reason that he said something needed at this point. I don't agree with anyone who says that the budget of the BiH institution and international obligations are not needed by BiH and that we will continue financing temporarily in 2012. I didn't recognize anything bad in the words of the deputies, except for the need to be warned again, and we need everyone to warn us, warn us and the citizens that we don't have a budget. And why don't we now draw one conclusion and refer it to the Bureau or change the Constitution, change jurisdiction or assign political parties to run for the next election in 2014 as a member of the Bureau to the least degree economists, not to say, Master and Doctor, so that, brother, they sit there, make it a delivery here. If we don't already have it, then we have to warn them in some way that we need that budget and see why we don't have it, whose whims are, whose needs are that this budget hasn't been found in parliamentary procedure. I disagree that this should be the subject in 2012. It is better to stop funding on January 1st if we are unable to bring the budget due to a few of some personal interests, 38 policies or individuals there. And we have to distinguish, so we enter the Law on the financing of institutions, we find Article 14 and we see what the Ministry is responsible for, which is what the budget users are responsible for, and then in that part we tell stories, and not all of this is loaded on the Ministry of Finance. Here, I've had it, but that's what I'm going to ask the next item of the agenda for some visas on this audit report. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7293	Replica, Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7294	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I think we're discussing something... that happened a year ago, something like that. Therefore, things cannot change here, but simply this report must either be adopted or received into knowledge, etc. But she gave me a bit of a boost, did she, from all this debate and the debate of the Deputy Minister of Finance, and then here we discussed in a way that someone from the BiH Presidency should have submitted this report, because they are the draftors of the budget. They're formally budget promoters, and they really aren't. That this is how it says the fact or the fact that 157 employees have been employed in the BiH Ministry of Finance... is whether and was a request for 178, and in the BiH presidency we have 95 employees. Therefore, we have replaced little here, if we know what the constitutional obligations of the BiH presidency are. I personally went with the accounting representatives here to the Ministry of Finance to the assistants, so we corrected the budget needs here for the joint services of the BiH Assembly, and I did not go to the Bureau. So, the users of the budget, for those who don't know, and for those who know how to repeat: the users of the budget are the ones who put their budgets, agencies, directors, administrations, ministries carry and send to the Ministry of Finance of BiH and then the Ministry of Finance corrects by planning revenues and expenditures and when it collects all these requirements, and the income and expenditure side, then sends to the Presidency and the Presidency, here we heard, nor has the staff qualified to do this, sign or, eventually, as we have seen, the last time, by the wishes of three members of the Presidency somewhere, mostly on the expenditure side want to add or subtract, and in the income nothing. So it's coming from here. So we don't have to move some ball around here. That's it. I'll be brief. This is where the Deputy Finance Minister gave us a political lesson. If I were an agent, he says, that's how much you pay for this rental space. That's what I was talking about at that previous session, not in the last session, but when we had reports here also on asked questions from colleagues, how much rent is paid. It'd just be good to know who's getting the rent and what's not going on. The deputy minister becomes political, if it weren't for us today, we'd have the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7295	Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 39 This seems to be the Council of Ministers as a man's breast: neither to whom he serves, nor to whom he is in need, nor to whom no one accepts him, nor to whom he treats him seriously. My replica is in the sense of denying that we are against the budget. The SSND club here made it clear that it was for the budget, and we've given the exact budget. So we're for the budget. Why did the finance minister propose such a wasteful budget as no one in Europe has proposed, and on behalf of whom and in the name of which policy he has proposed, it is now a question for him. Probably the deputy would say something and as a responsible deputy to his minister, he would say it's not smart, but he can't say it when they don't talk, when they don't talk, it's probably the question whether the chairman is talking to either one of them, etc. So someone would warn and say: you can't put an unreal budget on Parliament, give people what's real. We all know that the presidency is just a transmission. Public Finance Minister said, I liked to ask him today: on behalf of which BiH's budget alone is growing across Europe. Is that meant to be, since the budget only comes with salaries, for double salary increases? Is it intended, since social needs are gone, since there are no other things, probably. I'd like to hear that because circumstances changed, times changed, and I don't know if the Treasury knows that. Investment, i.e. an increase in the budget for these things at this point completely out of the streams that surround us and we're facing, I don't think it's correct. I think it's unrealistic and it's politically inconclusive, and that's what it turned out to be. So I'm going back to the fact that we're for the budget, for the real budget, and as far as SNSD is concerned, you can have that budget today. Those who think it should be different, that hundreds of millions should be increased in consumption, in wages and other things, I'd like them to come out here on the streets of Sarajevo, they don't have to go any further, so that explains why it is and how it is. If you think the Federation government doesn't need money for social needs, where those needs are located, then that's what it needs to say and how someone thinks about solving it. Here's to not mention the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As for rent, rent, I think we've all said all about it, but it's not realistic for someone to cut the branch they're sitting on. It's not realistic to get a bottle of alcohol from a drunk. It is not realistic that this is resolved by the Council of Ministers and that it comes out with a quality proposal, although I fully agree with the account of a deputy who is absolutely correct. So if someone was taking care of the benefits and the savings, they'd apply this bill and solve it by now. And it's quite clear that the motives of those who didn't want to solve it are, I suppose, visible in these reports, you can add them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7297	And I meant the last replica, but it wasn't, Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7298	I don't replicate the deputy minister, I replicate my colleague Zvonka Jurišić with a question. I would really like my colleague to explain what this is really the difference between a formal proposal, which is, in his words, the Presidency, and a real proposer, which is the Council of Ministers. In fact, the remark or the finding would certainly stand if the presidency were indeed only in unchanged form, in unaltered form, to take over and forward the draft budget from the Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We're all aware that's not the case. A little, of course, with respect, I replicate my colleague Jurišić, because he has shown his skills in the budget and how in his term as Prime Minister of the Western Herzegovina County when he succeeded in a four-year-old budget, until then one of the more promising counties in the Federation of BiH, to break in with the duties, with a deficit that he crossed, if I am not mistaken, 40 million marks. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7299	Replica, Dušanka Majkić
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7300	The replica of fellow Sokolović. He said some people wouldn't bring the budget. Here, I ask a pragmatically one question: When I ask any of us here who's in favour of getting the budget, they're all. But let's see who it is, whether everyone is to run an analysis of all BiH institutions and to assign this ministry, that is, the Council of Ministers to make a financial analysis of the behaviour of each institution and make a savings plan for each institution. What do we get from that? Under 1. We will receive an indicative budget document that will no longer have to suffer the walking of ministers from one destination to another. So, we'll get the opportunity to bring in the draft budget document as soon as possible. Under 2.. We'll dobiće a proper relationship and a responsible relationship with the IMF. And below 3. We'll get BiH's 2012 budget. I don't think anyone would like to say it, he would be ashamed to say it's not for the institution's behaviour analysis, because there are no MPs in this home that have not had any objection to the behavior of a large number of BiH institutions. Here, we'll have, hopefully, at the next session of the audit reports, and we'll see what they were and how they were acting. Why doesn't our conclusion be this: an analysis of all institutions, see where the savings are and we'll get the shortest time and budget and a document of the 2014 indicative budget. I suggest you make that a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7301	Šefik Džaferović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7302	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, we are talking about the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2010 and this material is what it is. So there's nothing we can do about it right now. We can draw some lessons from this when it comes to the next budget, and the next point will talk about whether this... is the way it was prescribed by law, but I am in line with those who believe that BiH, when discussing its parliament on this topic in the situation in which BiH is located and what the state of the budget is, has no right to shut up and therefore I think that the Deputy Minister was absolutely right when he warned about the speaker that we were discussing at a time when BiH has a fourth quarterly decision on temporary financing for 2011, that there is still no draft budget in Parliament for 2011, and that there is no budget already needed to be in September or October of this year for 2012. So, the man has completely normally warned here, and he has the right to deal with politics, he is not a reference/state official, he is the deputy minister appointed by this parliament, and let no one here hold a lecture who has the right, who has no right to deal with politics, because then, when he is not involved in politics, I don't know who will after him, the minister, the MPs, deal with politics in this country. So, I think, and thank him for coming out for the pay phone and saying, so I think this is a very serious situation and that we should discuss the matter. And in the debate on this matter, I think that 41 we should remember some facts first: we are not exactly innocent in the overall situation, because the BiH Presidency has delivered the budget to the BiH Parliament for 2011, respecting the commitments that BiH has, but the BiH Parliament, more specifically, did not accept this budget. When a budget is made, I agree with those who talk about plans, projections and commitments, then you see what these are obligations, what are projections, what are the country's plans in that year and then the budget is projected. It is not possible to project the 2011 budget without calculating all the legal obligations that BiH has, as well as the laws that we have passed here. And here it is not the real question whether the budget should contain what has come from the BiH presidency, but rather the real question of who has the right and what are the consequences because a public call, or even in its decisions, is that the laws adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are not respected. That's the key to the problem we have. So the fundamental question is the question of responsibility for non-compliance with the laws that we have adopted. The law may be challenged before the Constitutional Court, but the Constitutional Court also said what he had to say. And that's actually the key thing. The second thing, I am a man who is trying to follow a little bit and appear, a tendency, is whether, in this House, both at the level of institutions and overall in BiH. I have a feeling that very often the functioning of BiH institutions is troubled, and I have nothing against it, or I would have nothing if I were sure that motivation is noble. I'm afraid motivation is not noble. And under a noble motivation for this kind of activity, I mean a motivation that wants the institutions to see you tomorrow even more efficiently and functionally. I fear that on the one hand, the development of BiH institutions is deliberately hampered, and then, when the problem arises, demands that these institutions, i.e. are troubled by the existence of these institutions. And it wasn't once said in this parliament for a pay phone and otherwise in the overall political speech in BiH. Same thing with the budget. That is why I call on all of us, if it is said that we need to examine the efficiency of BiH institutions, the efficiency of spending, I have nothing against it, but let's just say that it is done in entities, and in cantons, and in municipalities, so in all of BiH, everywhere, because the money we collect from VAT comes to one place and then, according to the relevant regulations, descend where they are to descend. So let's have a debate on the rationalization of spending both in the state and in entities, in cantons, and in municipalities, so on all public funds. That would be one correct relationship against this question. That is why I suggest that, firstly, when one of us discusses that at least the other colleagues have the strength to listen, not to comment on themselves, not to interrupt us, that this House asks the BiH Presidency, as well as the budget for this year and the next year as soon as possible. And it's not possible to make a budget without respecting the obligations this country has. I don't know if we're aware here that the soldiers who have the right to retire, and we've passed that law, which will be alimony from the state budget, tomorrow when they file a lawsuit, will get that money and get the costs, and that will cost the state a lot more than it would cost us if they adopted the budget and brought it in. That's why I think it's okay for us to address the Presidency to say, "Give us that budget." I know there's a problem, and there's talk every day on that subject, but here's a request from here, so maybe that, at least, might be a little incentive or an incentive to get those budgets here as soon as possible in Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7303	Replica, Drago Kalabić. 42 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're only 10 minutes away from the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7305	Here, just a replica of my esteemed colleague Džaferović, or one suggestion. I very much appreciate that you said you were following the currents and trends in BiH, but my proposal is to try to follow little trends and beyond, and out of BiH. If you follow those trends, then you will fully understand what we are talking about and what we are talking about. Follow the little spread of European institutions, follow the few problems of other countries, stronger, more powerful, as they face these problems. As soon as you come out of these frameworks that you have spoken of, you will fully understand what we are talking about, that we should not go in the road and in the woods. And a suggestion that at least our former colleague, MP, Mr. Izetbegović, will come to us here. If others who were not members of Parliament, but I think he would understand a little better and he could sometimes visit this parliament. I do not see what he has a problem with Parliament and that he does not answer our calls. Or thinks that these issues are not important at all and that the Presidency has more important issues to share with us here thinking and certain dilemmas, because I remember that from here there were still criticisms to the members of the Presidency, but we thought that those who are slightly in a special relationship with BiH institutions would visit us more often because I know that you belong to this current, so the suggestion that you have certainly good communication, and that's a positive thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7306	Replica, Šefik Džaferović
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7307	Mr. Kalabić, who I belong to, and how do you let it go to me, I'll sort it out somehow, and that's my problem. Certainly, I believe that Mr Izetbegović will come here to this Parliament, he was a member of this Parliament, he respects and values Parliament and I will convey this wish to him and I believe that he will fulfill your wish – that he will appear here in the Parliamentary Assembly. You see, colleague Kalabić, here I don't think the two of us understand each other. I talk very often about responsibility in BiH lately. I think we have a key responsibility issue here. You can imagine the state of irresponsibility this country is living in or the feeling that it will not respond when the country's most prominent officials say: I will not respect the law adopted by this parliament. It's a key, fundamental question for this country. And when we answer, among other things, and to that question, it will be easier for all of us and it will be simpler for all of us in this country. The problem of irresponsibility begins from there and ends then with the smallest and smallest clerk. I argue that today, BiH institutions are operating with a much smaller degree and efficiency, and all that is measured by the work of the institutions because we have a Council of Ministers in the technical mandate and we have not implemented election results after these past elections. And that's a question of 43 responsibilities. And when this country solves the question of responsibility and responsible relationship against any man who does his job, then there will be much, much less problems. That's what I was going to say and send it as a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7308	I'm closing the debate. During the debate, we had the opportunity to hear the opinion of both MPs and representatives of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7309	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7310	Just a little attention, a little attention. Therefore, a representative of the Council of Ministers may be included in the debate at any time in a business debate. Mr. Kasumović, I will give you my word, but I call on you not to challenge new replicas...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7311	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7312	All right, all right. Mr. Kasumović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7313	Mr. Chairman, in my discussion, I really didn't expect to cause replication. I didn't say anything, I didn't say this big or this big of a budget, I just said what your obligation was. It's an obligation to bring in the budget, to discuss. How much, it's yours. But let me answer Mr. Belkić so he doesn't think we don't know. So, about the return of funds to the SDS, right, we sent a letter to the OHR who was competent to interpret it. The moment we get it that way, we'll transfer the funds. And secondly, about shame, not to remain in debt, so I'm ashamed and I have nothing if you're not. And to Mr. Živković, or Deputy Živković, I will not replicate here. When I see him, I'll tell him. Thank you very much, because I'm not an accountant.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7314	I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the 44-Ad agenda. 5. Report on the Review of the 2010 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office On 13.10.2011, the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, in accordance with Article 16(2) of the Law on the Audit of BiH institutions, submitted the Review Report. The Finance and Budget Commission delivered its opinion on 4.11.2011. The Commission accepted the report. I'm opening a debate on the report. (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in a certain way we, members of the Commission, have had the opportunity to discuss each of these reports and that, based on the hearings that we have conducted with those who have received an opinion with the reserve, we have had the opportunity to point out their failures and mistakes, and in this direction it may be good here in Parliament to say where mistakes and failures are so that we can get to the adoption of a new budget, i.e. for 2011 and 2012. If we don't point out the gaps that have been made, then it seems to me that there will be a problem with the adoption of a new budget. And apart from what you can read in the press through certain statements, I don't see any other conjecture or sanctions that people who, truthfully, are acting in accordance with the adopted budget but are not in line with, sometimes, morals. I'm going to make an example of how the funds of one of the institutions have the right to get a car, out of 50, they're realising the funds for 70 million, and they're getting an asset that's, like, the power in the ranks of the largest vehicles, maybe those vehicles don't drive even the presidents of the republic. One of the most common agencies spends money like that. And for those reasons, it's simply unacceptable that we just go over this the way that we don't point to certain gaps that happen. In this budget, 70.7% of the budget is spent on gross wages, cost of expenses, travel expenses for telephones and costs of renting out of the total amount of budget. If we go with only 10% to save and we can save a lot more, then it'll be a significant asset and what we're arguing about when we adopt the budget will be a whole lot easier. It's unacceptable that... there are gross wages with some stimuli of 2,907,000 marks. We don't know what kind of stimulation it is, who and how it is, and in most organizations and institutions there's no regulated regulation at all how it's done, or how it's done quite differently in all institutions. Excessive work 1.057,000. In the mass of the unemployed world we have here overtime! I guarantee that if someone in the questionnaire on admission to work... they say that they commit 45 to work only in the redistribution of working hours, to accept it. With millions of overtime, it's really incomprehensible. Then transport from work and to work 25 million, accommodation fee 10 million, for a separate life of 14 million, regress etc., jubilee awards. Dear Bog, jubilee awards in institutions!? I don't know about any jubilee awards! When most organizations and institutions have abolished it, I think we're acting too comfortable here. When it comes to fixed and fixed-line expenditures where it's 10,856,000, we're really making a move on cell phones, and in fixed-line phone, we spend 4.5 million. Well, it can be saved, too, let's go. Although there are organisations that have made certain instructions and limited consumption, in another, it is without restrictions or leave to the institution's manager that he can prescribe how much anyone will spend or that he approves it. I think that's how substantial resources can be saved. Renting property and equipment, renting space 14 million, renting apartments 9 million, 4 million and 500 and getting a 7402,000 vehicle – was purchased in the last year 172 vehicles. I think it's too much. Let's also say that prices are extremely high. In that sense, I have one of the proposals to be carried out at the level of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, public procurement procedures in which a tender will be opened and car manufacturers signed up and in such a way that we can unify both the rolling stock and get to a more favourable price. It is known that the president will determine the type and size of the vehicle for certain institutions. This would unify the rolling stock, save funds, and in that way we'd better have maintenance. On that basis, significant resources would certainly be saved. Also, it is unacceptable that, for example, the copyright fee is 355,000 or the contract of action 7,409.000. The most affected contract of action when it was done with a worker employed in the institution in the work he was assigned to. These are things that we really need to sort out in some way that these things can't happen anymore, because the deal on the work with the man doing the job! In that direction, when it comes to the audit report, I had observations and I said so myself. It could be a little bit sharper criteria sometimes. And have reports that have a prominent object or a reserve, and not close to each other, and are placed in the same basket. I think that, in that sense, we might be able to do a little bit more stringent criteria for some institutions that repeat several times. But it's not worth anything if we're not here we agree that whoever has the same cases twice or twice in a row that got him a reserve of no sanctions, then they can behave as they please and as they will. And, I think in that direction, I suggest that at the level of the Council of Ministers, in addition to those regulations, which seems to me to be obliged to bring, about the use of cars, phones, rights to representation, etc., those costs, to make them unique. If we don't make unique criteria, then we're going to have another waste in this budget, and everything to comply with the existing law, but it's not moral, it's not moral to get cars so expensive for the most ordinary referents or ministerial assistants, without talking about what kind of cars it's all about. In this direction, I expect that today and in this debate, we will present certain views and opinions and that, at least in some way, those who have the state budget and resources know that someone is controlling them, monitoring them, and that they can bear any kind of responsibility. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7318	I thank Mr. Tomić. In line with the unanimously adopted conclusion at the Extended College of the House of Representatives, I call on the Foreign Affairs Commission to start work at 13.00 hours and give a 60-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing to work within the fifth item of the agenda. The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7320	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I am sorry that we are not considering the audit reports of individual institutions, agencies and ministries, where we would then get a more thorough, detailed picture of the spending, the purpose, or the non-compliance of the spending of public funds. Therefore, it is evident if we compare the report on the execution of the budget and the audit report from the previous year, or 2009, that there are also objections from year to year and, of course, we again witness the non-transparent, irresponsible spending of public money by a large number of budget users. For a hundred times, we may have to repeat that there is no more public or political responsibility. If there is no political responsibility in structures, I mean ministries, representatives of individual parties in ministries and other things, maybe we should take that political responsibility and continue to punish institutions. So I completely agree with Mr. Tomić, who said that it should really be a rule to impose punishment on the institution, ministries that repeatedly repeat mistakes from year to year, because in the end we will be responsible. In fact, a few days ago, representatives of the Commission on Finance and Budgets and both at home met with representatives of SIGMA who were reviewing our Audit Office. Therefore, their position, or interest, was related to the quality of the audit reports and how satisfied we as representatives are with the quality of the audit reports. But in the end, it turned out that they found us to be the biggest object, so reviewing the audit, so to us as advocates for not having political disciplinary public responsibility. Because if that were the case, then the audit itself, of course, would make it easier for the Ministry of Finance to do business when it comes to individual controls. So, Mr. Jop, if I'm right, said he was also in Parliament five years ago, met with members of the Finance and Budget Committee from the previous call, and that they simply issued the same grudges. So, five years ago, just like we did again and now we're putting out these grudges. But there is still some progress, and we have to admit it. So, if this budget is also looked at, or if we are now going into the structure of individual ministries and audit reports, we can see that the number of institutions that have received an opinion with a reserve or opinion with qualifications is reduced. This, however, speaks of some progress when it comes to the very audit and control of our ministries and state institutions. 47 Now a question arises, and I ask myself one question: What is the result, or what has affected progress? Is this the mechanism of public hearings that we have introduced, because indeed not once, I think, nor the Deputy Minister, because so far we have not had a chance to see the Ministers or the Ministers, but also the Deputys and Representatives, they were not, of course, directors of individual institutions, comfortable when we were hearing them and asking questions. Whether this is the possibility of reducing budgets per item or perhaps this programme budgeting that will become our obligation, or the obligations of individual institutions. But I think it's really ad hoc measures, because in the long run we won't have long-term improvements if we don't introduce what we keep repeating, internal controls, unless an internal central harmonisation unit comes into life and rules are passed. So again, I ask the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: When will the rules finally be passed, which seems to me, be transferred from your ministry to the Council of Ministers and return to you or, I don't know, to other institutions, when will the deadline finally be established and will our commission finally have the opportunity to get to know those rules? So, I'm interested in the deadline, did you set a deadline and when will we meet, so as a commission? Mr Kasumović said earlier that we as a commission should take on greater responsibility, so that is one step in taking on the above responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7321	Replica, Zijad Jagodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7322	Thank you. I am reporting for one replica, however, not on the words of my colleague, Danijela, but on the words of my fellow MP Tomić, when he spoke of a problem that I fully agree with, but I saw on this side that all things were said so nicely, but on the other hand he underlined everything to the blue, which I didn't like. I liked that he underlined it red, because I also underlined everything he was saying, and it's about the mass of the problem. However, in the audit report that we discussed some time ago, I certainly also said, this situation reminds me of the situation in companies when there is a shift in the board of directors or management, so people are new to discuss the previous. So also this situation, I think my colleague Tomić said it nicely, but he should have underlined it red. The other thing is, what I'm trying to say. Since I noticed in that audit report that from the beginning to the end, that, not to say, the auditors noticed...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7323	Is this a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7324	What? No, just to figure out what I'm in that context. That auditors have practically noticed with all institutions less or more significant irregularities. I therefore call on, I would not like much, I will support these opinions in every way, or reports, because it is 2010 but what I would like to point out in particular that the competent institutions for such audit reports should study and see exactly what the auditors have warned and, ultimately, to take the measures envisaged against them so that in 2011 or 2012 we do not have what we are discussing today. 48 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7325	The word has Nermin Purić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7326	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my exposure to say that I received this report in Croatian, so I apologize in advance to both legitimate and illegal Hrvat here if I happen to be their language, did he, insinuate? I must admit that the audit reports were the most interesting reading to me, and at a time when I was a representative in the Federal Parliament, rather than for the reasons that the audit reports best and most clearly show all the vainness of all the activities that we as advocates are taking to correct the situation in all areas, therefore which are within the scope of our work. In that sense, and this report, I'll deal with it on one global basis without getting into the details, because the details are more or less specific to all the audit reports at all levels, so they're just nuances. First of all, on the 3rd side of this report, it is important to draw attention to the responsibility of the management,... where auditors remind us that it is not only the responsibility of the ministry, but that, when it comes to this area of action, it is the shared responsibility of both the Ministry and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so each one in its own domain, which we should bear in mind when we speak at all about the budget. When it comes to thinking with the reserve, i.e. the important things that the auditors have pointed to and which are characteristic of this report, the main problems are here, it is evident, functional nature, and I agree with the need to review the functioning of all institutions in BiH and in financial and functional terms, as Mrs Majkić said during the discussion at the previous agenda point and Mr Džaferović, who, if not, slightly doubted the motives for which it was proposed. To carry out a quality discussion on the subject and, of course, believing that it is justified and sincere motives, then we would not be reminded again by auditors of the existence of rules, so that there would be consumption frameworks. They would not constantly recall the need to adopt sublaws and regulate certain issues in public consumption, etc. And I don't think I know if it's more boring for them to repeat these finds and those recommendations, or if it's more boring for us to listen to those finds and those recommendations. This situation does not need to be amnesty for anyone and should not be easily thrown aside by the issue of the Council of Ministers' technical mandate, since the Council of Ministers clearly has a technical mandate when it comes to the adoption of new legislation, etc., and when it comes to the appointment and spending of budgets it is obvious that there is no technical mandate. Because we are witnesses, so we can see from the media these days, different appointments at all levels, I will not single out any particular ones and it is not important, but it is important that the technical mandate, or the concept of a technical mandate, which, as far as I know, does not exist in legal regulation, is being misused in one such way. The main issue when it comes to the 2010 Budget Implementation Report, or even when it comes to budget implementation, is the question of accountability, accountability to public funds, which is obviously lagging behind. Thus, in the part of this report, in the case of recommendations that have not been implemented by auditors, 49 concrete activities have not been taken in the adoption of appropriate instructions to budgetary users, with a view to establishing clear and precise rules relating to the issue and use of business cards by institutions. Business cards are then tied up and travel, I don't know, first class, unnecessary costs, travel delegations in more than they really need, etc. And this part, and this relationship to public money, and this issue of responsibility, of course, has to do with one agricultural activity in the field of globular grinding, but that can't be said, is it, in front of this respected home, and it's not... We live in a society where there is irresponsibility and corruption at all levels and in all forms, and that is unfortunately the case, and I don't think that's the main problem. The main problem lies that no one has ever been responsible for these things and that things are standing and not for long. And it's actually a space where all these people who ignore both auditors and all their efforts to improve the situation, to bring order into this whole story, so in that sphere they move and their freedom to continue doing so. And, of course, this raises the question of whether it makes any sense to make these reports, whether it makes sense to discuss these reports if we are all going to ignore them, so from those to whom they refer, through those bodies and institutions that we should. If this is a strong and normal legal state that should react once, it can't suddenly stand up to this, but then steps can be made, or, as Evropljanin say, a credible effort can be shown to bring this into order and I think the situation would be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7327	Before we continue to discuss one piece of information. The House of Representatives' College has arranged for us to work today until 17:30. If we don't finish today's session by that deadline, it's next Thursday at 10.00. Just so you have that information. The word has Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7328	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me first do a little depression, because I have a feeling that some of my colleagues have made an oversight. So today we are not talking about the revision of the BiH institutions' report, which will be the topic at one of the next meetings of the House of Representatives, but we are talking about the revision of the report on the execution of the BiH Institution's 2010 Budget, the report we were just discussing, which was made by the BiH Finance Ministry. So here the largest part of the discussion refers to the Ministry of Finance. What would I like to say in the beginning? This large report, which was made on 82 pages – never so far the report on the revision of the Budget report has not been this extensive – so 82 pages, I could easily split into two parts, the first part is called Review Review, and the second part is called Findings and Recommendations and to the end. In what ways is the discrepancy between these two accounts different? The first part of this report was obtained, so the assessment and findings and the opinion of the review are with the reserve. I just want to remind you that in 2010, the BiH Federation's Office for Auditing Institutions marked a large number of institutions negatively. So, they didn't pass, got a positive rating in public money. Let's just say, I know for a fact that out of the 10 cantons seven got a negative opinion. So it's the same with the federal institutions individually, a large number got a negative opinion. In the RS, Mr. Čeko is also making a massacre in terms of attitudes, or opinions of the Office of Audit, only roses bloom at the state level. 50 So, I said this year when I saw all the audit reports that I think all the audit reports that got a positive opinion with a distraction could have been reserve reports, and all the reserve reports could have had a negative opinion. Why do I think that? Mostly because institutions don't care about the review report anymore, is that they pay attention to what the audit says, they would try to make the number of review recommendations as small as possible, so it's not smaller, and because I don't think the audit has dared to give an opinion that is appropriate to this finding. And now I'm going to remind you of what that means. Therefore, only 12 recommendations for the 2009 revision in 2010 were implemented. Realisation? 16 recommendations are under way, but many will not be completed, 41 recommendations are not implemented. Question, what was actually realized? What's written is that it's as if it's realized it speaks in favor of that these are things... for which it didn't take a special effort to realize. I remind you that in 2009, there were 69 recommendations, in this report the review made 85 recommendations, and it reassessed it with the reserve, not negatively. What did she say for a reason? Also, this is a unique report for many reasons. When you look at the number of reasons, the arguments, which are mentioned as the basis for an opinion with the reserve, are 11. It's never happened to put a grudge on such a number of recommendations and get an opinion with the reserve. And especially when you respect all these reasons that are sublimed in an item called Consumer Standards and non-purpose consumption. Unintentional spending of budgetary resources is one of the major issues that arises in the realisation of budgets is the issue of unintended spending of appropriations. There are several different segments of budgetary spending and states that they were wrong and says: creating the number of employees, using official vehicles, using phone services, representation, realising official travel, paying various fees to employees and appointed persons when hiring external associates, operating contracts, equipment procurement, donations, grants. So the question goes, "What's wrong?" And it deserved to be an opinion with a reserve. Well, it's, it's called not dare to call things a real name. And I wish the auditors could answer the question, "Why don't they dare call things a real name?" There is another newspaper we have not had so far, a review of the first responsibility for the implementation of recommendations to the Council of Ministers, which has logic, the adoption of sublegal acts, as well as Parliament. So, in the last term, I chaired the Finance and Budget Committee and I know that we have done everything the project requires, conducted public hearings, given individual and systemic recommendations, and I don't know what else Parliament could have done. The issue of punishment, perhaps it's all that's left, so there's neither political nor any other, and I'm not talking about criminal responsibility, but I'm sure this number of institutions, which we're going to consider safely next time, requires a huge number of criminal responsibilities. So, I would like the revision to say exactly what it meant when it said that part of the responsibility for this state of audit for the implementation of the budget was borne by Parliament itself. We need to know what they meant and what obligations we didn't fulfil as Parliament, which we should have. Also, what is important and concerns only the Ministry of Finance which not only is responsible for its business but is its responsibility multipled with the number of institutions. If it has not done a certain sub-legislative act, it is therefore responsible for each individual institution, especially when it comes to more significant transactions and transactions that are at great risk. Believe me, there's a lot of payment orders to the abroad. It goes with very difficult explanations that follow large amounts of money, these are millions of dollars. So no control and any institution means beyond control, because this mechanism is not strengthened within the Ministry of Finance – it can make payments abroad without making it very difficult to pay. 51 I would also like to remind ourselves that in 2008, it seems to me that the Internal Audit Act has been passed, so it has come into force. It was only half of 2010 that the management of the Central Harmonization Unit was appointed, but we still didn't feel any good, we still didn't feel that they were working. Also, the Department of Internal Audit of the Ministry of Finance has not yet begun work. And that's an additional problem that makes this case even more complex. So withdrawing the problem of internal controls is a problem without which there is no better review report. So what I can say is that we have to accept this review report, but we also have to give criticism to the review that the relationship with the audit report honors all the people who did it, because it's obvious that it's the people who professionally did their job, so, but those who decide what opinion the audit report will get didn't do it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7329	I thank the esteemed representative Dušanka Majkić. The raplica was reported by distinguished representative Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7330	Thank you very much. I wanted to replicate Mrs. Majkić. However, as she said, she mentioned internal rules and regulations as the basis for better quality audit reports, I might just add, after all. Therefore, not only the extent of repeated errors, but the materiality of errors, or the severity of certain errors, will affect the qualification by the audit. In any case, we now have SIGMA, so the Agency that audits our audit, and then I guess we'll get an adequate review and information about how quality our audit is, or our Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7331	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by the honourable representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I've reported myself listening to this excessive stretching of problems that don't deserve this much time. Don't be mad at this finding of mine, we are discussing today the budget of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives from a mandate that is more than ours. They brought in people who weren't here anymore, you know, and they spent it and they controlled people who weren't in office anymore. We're in the amanet, as we say in Bosnia, left to discuss it now. In an analogous way, listening to some of your discussions, I wonder why it is only now during today's session that only the 5th item of the agenda is on the schedule, and we have much, much more important to discuss, is called the present. Yes, of course the past is always a memory of the future. I'm just asking, we who are still in office, and I guess next year if Bog gives us 52 health to experience, then what kind of budget are we going to discuss in this way next year, which budget, what. I sometimes get confused when we don't trust people who just pass on their powers, you know. I'm talking about our commissions, so, among other things, this committee that filed a report like this, so we gave them authority on behalf of us to do it. People filed their report and we have it. But we're also attached to the auditor's report. Of course, if that's the case, listening to certain MPs here, I have a feeling, and I'm not mistaken that that's how it is, that maybe many have found a very large number of anomalies in this audit report. You know, the audit report confuses me and that definition that says, it'd better say sports jargon with restraint, so they're reserved for that. If there are such anomalies, what does the D.A.'s office do? Well, I guess even this budget, someone needs to answer for it if there are anomalies in it that aren't defined and they're not clear and it's in the hints, but there's no direct. It confuses me a little bit, you know. And one more thing to tell you, it's true, again, that we're discussing a past that we're not responsible for, we're not involved in, but, well, she's a school for the future. By listening to all this, I always remember the wise lav Nikolajević Tolstoj who in his one tract says, "The past is something that is no more, the future is what is not yet, between the two of us as two counterpoints we are and we are called the present." Let's give people this much time to devote to the problems that my dear friend has about, I'll call him what we all call him from a mile away "Glory," he says, "And what about the present that is pressuring us." It's true to learn lessons from all this. My member, of course, is from the Alliance for a Better Future in that commission, and I'm always paying more attention when I'm involved with someone who's with me and taking part in a programme and I pay a little more attention to it. But I'm saying, I'm confused by these facts that I've made so logically judgmental about our report on this committee and, of course, the audit report that also confuses me. Why do you go around what's most important every time? If there's any legal anomalies, let's get the people involved, let's get the D.A. to do his job. We're not here. We're not the D.A.'s office, we're not the judges, we're not the defenses. Let people do their jobs if there's... problems, not that we're wasting our time here. And yet I tell you what tomorrow's gonna be like, when this is the end of the year, and we don't have our budget. It's like it's not the current concern, like it's so let it spin, let it move on. Excuse me, my... look at all this to make this debate a little easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7333	Thank you very much. The following came to the debate, the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we have agenda points that we have adopted and we need to stick to the agenda. But I have to say this is tiring, especially to hear about the same things for four years, so here's the new synergy of colleagues who are now in this problem listening. And I keep asking one question that I'm sure of, not in this mandate, but in my life, and I don't even know in someone else's life, if we're going to get answers by working like this. We hear an opinion here with a reserve, positively rare when, negatively, they have some recommendations, so I ask one question and a recommendation to ourselves, we have guests on this right, welcome always, on the left, today we have filled these chairs because this topic, so they are interested, otherwise the left-hand side is always empty, and why there are no main guests here. We are Parliament, whether we can force them not to be guests, but to be present. The representatives of 53 prosecutors come when they have a report there or when they ask for money to increase their budget. The SIPA guys, they're never here. Of course, they don't have anyone from Parliament to arrest because I don't think anyone here is a thief. And they're not even where they're supposed to arrest thieves. And what we're going to do today, spend four or five hours again, discuss this, bring some and we make recommendations that no one commits. I'd like to see a recommendation once in my life: Marko Marković or here, don't make him, maybe by accident someone's last name and last name, but Slavko Jovičić Slavic embezzled money in that agency, ministry, institution and he got this audit report with some backup! Now, if you weren't the backup report, let's get you to the right reserve where you belong, to the prison! I have never seen such a report, not in Parliament, but not in the papers, not even in the press text, that someone was responsible for archiving and spending money at all levels. I could count some institutions by morning that I know I'm sure they're stealing, those who run those institutions there. Why don't we steal when they won't answer? No Niko will ever call them alive. Maybe they'll publish some newspapers, some journalists who are more sophisticated and come up with that data. Two days goes by, like every miracle, the third day, the way that old saying has been eaten by a donkey wolf. But we got in trouble for the donkeys to eat us. That's the other way around. And that is the worst variant that makes us here in Parliament. Guys, let's be honest for once and admit that we're powerless to do anything! But today we're going to have a debate, and we're going to draw some conclusions, and we're going to make some recommendations. According to who? I ask myself and my colleagues whom we shall oblige to do anything, here's not one word of mine, from these colleagues who understand themselves in all this, who follow this, to say today this messenger has demanded it, let's take his people, let's see if the man is right at least. Let's do something! So I remind myself and you, have you ever read in the papers, not here in Parliament or anywhere, have you seen a picture on TV of someone being taken from institutions, here from here, so me, with handcuffs. You won't. Only the one who broke into the bank, who broke into the trade, who put the explosives under the car, that's what you'll see. And you won't see the ones with the recommendation. You won't see the ones with the reserve. Well, they're holding us in reserve, because we're powerless and they know there's nothing we can do, and then the system is here with all the recommendations of the people: take it as much as you like. 'Cause this is definitely Alybe's straw, so you're gonna shake something out. Shake to the will. Now that's your agenda point, it's your audit reports, I'm giving credit to the auditors, they've done their job, I can't do it anymore. But they can't be investigative authorities either, so go bring someone in because they found out. Let's be a little bit more dishonest, we're certainly here, but let's open the question: do you think, those who deal with thieving in institutions, that every document will also be given to these auditors? Ten times they're more capable, I'm not reducing their value than the auditor. Well, crime has always gone five steps above the law enforcement and thieves. So here I was talking, not teaching you, but reminding you, Rubicon's cube was invented by an academic, but by a thief in a cell who was bored and the world went crazy. So, gentlemen, we're going to spend today, here we are, and let's talk about this for another five days, but I'm asking if this Parliament has the power to sit temporarily in the first place representatives of the D.A., the SIPA, the Intelligence Service, our agencies and it tells them – don't listen to what MP Jovičić said, come on, listen yet, don't read tomorrow's paper that's going to write tomorrow that we're going to discuss this, people, let's get involved in our work and we're doing something without these MPs. Let's bring in some clerk who's a thief and doesn't need any immunity if he stole everything he could steal! But his mandate expired, everyone forgot him, no one remembers him and why he wouldn't steal!? But it will always say that the main thieves are in the White Hall. He's the one everyone forgot. 54 So the auditors did what they could, and again I will repeat, never all the documents will be available to them, and that is true, nor will they receive insight. He's not the fool who stole to deliver the key papers to them. Well, of course, they'll hide, but they'll trick some others, so they won't have any insight. But when we ignore all this now, I'm going back to the key question: how many days, and we've lost years, and every year too, to discuss this and show it in the end, it's not the conclusion, but with our discussion, we're powerless to change anything. And I can't get out of here... publicly, it would be, it would be a shame and I would do a crime, but I'd be the happiest to say-- treasure to you who are the managers of some institutions, so you have the opportunity to steal and I'm telling you now, no promise, no one can or will answer you -- keep stealing. That's the system, that's the recommendation. But it can't be given out of the MP's bench. Now the most important thing. For the hundredth time I will repeat it, I am boring myself, and to my colleagues even more, but that is: no one has ever been responsible for exorcising the people's couples and robbing this poor woman. This isn't a demagogy. And she will continue. And not a single auditor, not a single SIPA inspector, not a director, not a prosecutor will stop them, until we sort them out in the front row and say, man, in a month's time, you finish this institution, see if there are any thieves there. No, let's give him the medal, he's got, put him in jail to see him, man. But that's not gonna happen. It's gone, and we're just gonna spend it, someone's gonna tell their story like I am, and I'm gonna say it again, and that's the most important thing for me to do personal satisfaction, and I'm bored of myself, and then I can think of being you, so I won't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7335	I thank the honourable People's MP Slavko Jovičić. And the next one actually appeared to the replica, the distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7336	Thank you. Oh, I want to support what my dear colleague Jovičić said. However, I'm surprised that here after six years we've had some here most of the woven of, I don't know who I don't know who these parties are anymore, I have no idea who the position is, and who the opposition is, so now I'm confused, and I wonder if in this institution where I don't know, I don't know, what it's all about, are these institutions where these institutions are and, I don't know, the HDZ, or if there are those from SNSD. I'm asking you if there are those from the SDS by chance, since apparently institutions don't do their jobs, give us, here I'll file a criminal report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7337	The following came to the replica, the esteemed representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, here's a replica to Mr. Jovičić, I know that in SNSD they plotted that the BiH state budget should be as small as possible. There... then comes this story exactly what we're talking about. However, I am speaking as a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and the man who participated in the analysis of the audit reports. Here, we haven't made that summary opinion yet, compared all the qualifications by the institutions, that session 55 will be on Friday, but this much, here's what Mrs. Pandurević, thieving and crime said through those audit reports I didn't really see. Either I don't see it, or is this the story that's focused exactly the direction I was talking about earlier? So the justification for why we don't have a 2011 budget at this point, or let's take that number down, and then, in some ways, we're going to do some redistribution within it. We have here meaning the state institution, the audit house that audited the report, audited the business of state institutions, and they've taxed some things here, is it, what are the problems? Since the Law on Public Procurement, Internal Control, part of worse budget planning, mostly in terms of employment, etc., but have been observed, is there, and certain shortcomings in fuel consumption, oiliness, travel orders, telephones etc. But nowhere is the name of a criminal, a thief who was involved in spending or taking away those funds. So if we're going to talk about this, then that thief and the criminal must have a name and a last name. But what someone might want to put this institution, and I don't want, in the office of the prosecution or in the position of the judge, we don't have to allow it, so. We have an auditory house, she made this report, we analyzed it, we looked at objective problems, subjective problems in all of it, and then all of this, whether, in touch with or out of touch with the BiH Prosecutor's Office, with the SIPA, with someone there, and they're going to run those processes. And please don't, when you speak on this subject, speak demagoguely, you have to speak precisely with the facts that support that story of yours about possible crime, corruption, or anything you talk about when it comes to the revision and the negativity that you point out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7339	I thank the esteemed representative Salki Sokolović. Next came the replica, the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7340	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, he made it a little easier for me, but I don't know what I'm going to replicate, but that's for the sake of order so we don't... So, I said in the statement that I'm neither a prosecutor nor a judge. But I have a question for prosecutors and judges. That's completely different. But I also have a question for the auditors, realizing that they're neither prosecutors nor judges, I didn't label anyone. If I was in business the way I used to be a politician, I'd tell you all the things I should tell you here. Of course, some secrets I wouldn't. So it's not that. My kolegica Pandurević, I've never seen a criminal have a client's book. I even prefer the one who shows me the book and I know he's a thief. He stole from me, from you, from my child, from your children, from everyone. What's the name of that book? So don't translate thieves into party uniforms. It's not fair, it's not correct. I've never dealt with demagogy and speculation in Parliament, and I've labeled some names. I'm asking the authorities who are more invited than I am to find those names. And I ask the key question, what was it, what do we get every year in these audit reports? People break down there from work, deliver to us. And we do something that we break, we read it, we ask, we need everyone to read it, to find something to deal with, to go public, Parliament. And what do we get when this session is over? Again, the folk who is the smartest eat the donkey wolf. Do we have solutions? Do we have the strength? Do we have, not power, not asking for power, do we have democracy to ask those responsible? I'm not responsible for this, people, neither are you, none of you. Here I am with you all. But someone has to be. Does anyone have to be responsible for today being 56 1,500 cars on the road of state authorities? Does anyone have to know how much fuel they spent? Does anyone ever have to answer to me for five years of office: Why does every assistant in the ministry drive a car officially? Why do I need that audit? And you MPs, no one, have the right to the car. Does anyone have to answer me why he was paid in many institutions to a secretary's cell phone from 50 to 400 KM? That's what I'm looking for, people. I'm not looking for thieves to get me arrested. That's where the money's being spent. It's a system of review. But can an auditor order or, I don't know, parliamentarian to take away all the answering machine's cell phones today? He can't, people. Do we have the strength to bring in the act and say, "I can't." He may have a minister, a deputy minister and some cell phone assistants, others, everything is lifted, no need. Can we say today on the road there can only be 100 cars? Which one? Both police and several ministers. ________(?) And the secretary is important. Well, I know it's important. I'm not diminishing anyone's interest, but I guess that official is more important than the one who has a higher salary, he's gonna call her, she's not gonna call him, so she doesn't need a cell phone. So, to put it short, my people, this Parliament has no power, and it's only for nothing that we kill and torture, and we take responsibility for ourselves. I don't want to be responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7342	I thank the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić. The next call came a distinguished representative of Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7343	Thank you. Well, since we're in a very serious debate, it would be good if someone took a hike with some question to try to calm down, not support, so there are no party thieves. The thief is a thief and it is ugly to say here in the official place and in Parliament that the thief is the party from that party too, etc. And in that direction, I don't think you should. Mr. Sokolović, a replica of you. The glass can be empty until half or half full. Therefore, we also want this BiH budget to be as small as possible, not because we would respect the importance of BiH institutions, but because here we all in these discussions have estimated that there is excessive and unintended spending of money, and that, I must say, all in accordance with the approved budget, with applicable regulations and laws. And it's all regulation except whether it's moral. Is it moral to spend on the phone up to 700 KM..., is the moral team to spend enormously outside the institutions, is the moral excess of the car? Now, I'm speaking in that direction for those reasons not to be that SNSD is a party that doesn't want to adopt the budget. Believe that we want it and we care about adopting it, but also to point out certain weaknesses and failures and immoral spending sometimes. And it doesn't have to mean that it's all for the court, for the M.O.P., and we don't have to declare people, I don't think I agree with that at all. There is no criminal responsibility but everything is in accordance with the law, but I have set an example of only one car where, I repeat, 57 assets of 50,000 marks were granted and obtained for 70 funds, and therefore transferred... funds etc. For these reasons, it is not moral, it is not okay, and it is unfair spending of budget bonds. Here, in that direction is my replica and I hope you're not angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7344	Thank you. Next came the replica by the distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica number 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7345	Thank you. Well, I'd like to, like Mr. Tomić invited us to lower our tensions a little bit, and I'd like to lower our tensions. I'd like to apologize to the SNSD because I've been mistaken to this day and I think they're part of the parliamentary majority and that they're part of this government, and that they're also responsible for all of this since 2006. I found out today, Mr. Jovičić says he's not responsible. So I'm in some kind of delusion. They happened to sit in these ministerial chairs but weren't part of the government. And here we have come to the realization that there are no thieving parties, that there are only party thieves, so now we're chasing who's where the party is. I haven't seen a single game yet that she showed one of her own. I don't know, these six years they've been in power to show us even one of them. They didn't do it either.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7346	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7347	Of course, Mr. Ljubić, that applies to the HDZ. And you were part of the government, not just on SNSD and on the SDA. It's just us and the SDP here have been amnesty responsibilities for the last five or six years. As for Mr Sokolović's budget and remarks that we want him to be as small as possible from the RS. It's true, Mr. Sokolović, for one reason, at least the SDS, so our motives are because as we see there's a lot of thieving, a lot of crime here, so we're going by the logic that the budget is smaller, less can be stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7348	I thank the esteemed representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. She mentioned HDZ, we don't recognize each other in any way. We're a party, we're not a party, and we don't essentially recognize ourselves in this problem. The next call came a distinguished representative of Mirsad Đugum.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7349	I also welcome again surprise, surprise, what happens every day and everywhere in the media and beyond, is about mass thefts, thievings and everything that happens or 58 doesn't happen. But here's one thing I'd like to make unclear. If 10-12 years in Parliament discusses audit reports and is constantly said that there are thefts, thievings, etc., and not one more time has been named who has and where, by name and last name, did something, we become insecure because we have voted here or not, let us take to the knowledge of the reports, and as if nothing has happened. Let's get out of here and go back to our homes, and the citizens who grabbed their heads or whether it's accurate or incorrect information, again, we don't know. Please, I'd like to ask a normal question here. In the process, if the audit report comes, and the communication is normal between the auditors, the Office of Audit and the Prosecutor's Office, and other bodies, SIPA and other bodies – are these reports delivered to the Prosecutor's Office, to the SIPA's investigative bodies or to others, are they sufficient, enough to analyse and initiate certain procedures and are they sufficient to ensure that SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office on those reports, which are negative or with restraint, are declared in writing to Parlamet that there is crime or no crime? We need to bring a little bit of optimism to the citizens, not to declare it all a crime, where it may not be, but we need to be responsible for the citizens, if there is a crime to prosecute it. And I would only ask that the application be made to both the Prosecutor's Office and the SIPA whether the communication of the Audit Office is sufficient and the reports are sufficient for both SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office to state in those elements where the reports are listed as negative or under the reserve to deliver their opinion to Parliament whether there are any actions that are illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7350	I thank the esteemed representative, Mirsad Đugum. The next call came a distinguished representative, Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we got caught up in a network when we're discussing this audit report here and we're talking about some kind of crime. Here, my colleague Jovičić was talking, so everything was moving within the budget. So in this year 2010, he raised his hand to this budget and, those users of the budget who had the possibility of legally spending these funds, they spent it. To what extent – someone more, someone less. Here is the only thing, what MP Tomić said, about honesty and correctness, means expenditure parties within BiH institutions. We need to do everything to strengthen these BiH institutions, but I don't know how it can happen if you throw an internal distribution from one position to another. The car – BiH ministers, deputies, vice-presidents and presidents of Parliament – should be planned, so they should drive together cars, of 100,000 and above. That's what I'm telling you, Deputy. So, you must say, if, here I was just reading on the Foreign Affairs Commission where the Republic of Croatia sent us a memo that RS Prime Minister Džombić was driving under rotations in the Republic of Croatia, he might have gotten a little carried away, so they sent us a memo not to use rotational lights in other countries. We had one such information from the BiH Embassy in Zagreb. So, the institutions, the deputies, the ministers, what just happened was a word, whether every assistant, whether every secretary, whether or not I don't know, should have a cell phone, how much representation. So people planned it in the budget and were about to stick to it. Someone spent a little more than 59, but here the review warns, is it, that no rules have been adopted that anyone will honor someone and spend 500 or thousands of marks somewhere or somewhere in the restaurant? If there were any fictitious accounts, it probably is. So certain manipulations can be done, which is true, means when it comes to public procurement, that someone hasn't used them, that means he's obeying the public procurement procedure, assigned a job to this or to that, under these or those conditions. Now, there are elements to prosecute criminal responsibility. But if you've assigned a cell phone to the Ministry and prescribed that you'll spend on cell phones, I don't know, 10 thousand marks and spent 11, no one's going to go to jail for that, but it's questionable whether it's moral and writing 10, maybe you should spend two. That's where you can find these savings. No Niko here has ever committed a crime, is it, then you'd be first, or I don't know, here's the Deputy Minister of Finance in prison, because they're the most responsible, for example, they're warning budget users whether someone's out of the box or not. And I think this debate should end. This was, and of course, based on reports like this, so the SIPA and the D.A. can run certain procedures if they think they have criminal responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7352	I thank the esteemed representative Jurišić. And for the debate, yes, the replica appeared, so the next one for the replica appeared the esteemed representative Ismet Dervoz.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7353	Thank you, sir. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I call again on my parliamentary inexperience. If what Mr. Jurišić says is true and what has been said before that everything is legal and within the framework of the law, what are we discussing? What crime and any irregularities? And if that is not the case, then at this home and on us there is the possibility and open door that we can initiate amendments and additions to laws that will warn and prevent such discussions and this kind of waste of time in Parliament, in future times. Therefore, gentlemen, here you are, I invite you, and we will also work on proposing amendments to the Budget Law of the BiH institutions, on the revision and everything else necessary, so that in this house we know what we are talking about, not that I am now wondering whether by law or by crime it is illegal or by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7354	Thank you very much. I'd say every crime is against the law, but here, that's how I understand it. Next to discuss, the replica was presented by distinguished representative Darko Babalj. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7355	Here I am, inexperienced. I apologize if something I say may not be right. First, on behalf of Aleksandra Pandurević, apologized to the SBB Club for not mentioning them earlier about this division of authorities during the previous period. Secondly, about crime, about the story of corruption, about this and those things, we all said something, and we all touched something. Here, I won't answer for the discussion, I'd like to thank the gentlemen of the review. I mean, if we've read all of what's written here, we certainly know and we see that there's crime, right from those discussions that you've all said here, and it's about the process of public procurement, not internal controls, the plan, the planning and this and that, where I say again, if we all read it right here, it tells exactly where there were problems, where there's problems. We are also aware that we are not the court and the prosecution, as Mr. Jovičić said and some of my colleagues. I think there's been a shift, and I think the organs that are in charge, both these and them, they're going to be doing their job. What was disappointing to me, since I was new, when I first sat down and had this audit report on the business of institutions, the first report I received was a report with the SIPA reserve. So, I don't know, just the SIPA, and she's doing it the way she shouldn't. I think we're all serious and that from what we've got on the Finance Commission budget, and if we've read all this well, we see that we're in serious trouble with breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7356	Thank you very much. No more replicas. The following came to the debate, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7357	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think we will first of all have to arrange a way to conduct a debate here in Parliament. The replicas are becoming dominant and are apparently being abused. Not because I've waited a long time and what my colleagues are waiting for, and there's always ad hoc applications, but because it's chopping up the parliamentary debate and it doesn't make sense. This is a debate where replicas are dominant, and the discussion is in another plan. I think those of you who run this together, if you take away a word once or twice for someone who has abused the replica, there will be fewer. But in any case, this business needs to be done. This is not good for Parliament, the discussion must be in the first place. This is the 2010 report on the revision of the 2010 budget implementation report. Therefore, the revision of the General Report on the implementation of the Budget and there are audits of each institution on their financial operations with appropriate assessments and appropriate recommendations. And it seems to me that for 11-12 years now, as long as there is an institution of review, an institution or an institution of the audit of BiH institutions, there is always one question that we have not yet answered. The audit does not have the task of reporting to anyone, and people have explained this to us many times here, but has the task and the obligation to establish what is seen as a phenomenon, to inform the institutions and then the institutions react to each one within their jurisdiction. And now, since these can also be followed by prosecutors, they can track institutions that are involved in the control of the functioning and operation of institutions and can take measures 61 to people, and what they don't do, that's another thing now. That's what we can talk about, call them, ask them to do their job. But there's one thing that nobody does and I want to say here right now, a few sentences, and that's that other than individual responsibility, so individual responsibility for any crime that needs to be dealt with, and that's why I need to run a state protection mechanism, primarily through the police, and then the prosecution, and then the courts, that everyone does their job, there are things that are occurring, that are repeated year after year. We never identified those responsible here, and we never discussed it. If you look at these recommendations, these recommendations say that the internal control system is not adequately arranged. So it is said that the pay system is not adequately arranged, the employment system is not transparent, the public procurement system is not properly arranged. The system of supply of material and technical equipment, vehicles, is not properly set up. I think that we have to do something and we are therefore definitely Parliament, it cannot be anyone else, and the Council of Ministers of BiH is to further work this out. Each of these points requires a special analysis and requires the position of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly. So when an analysis is made, they are given the task of removing the shortcomings, and then it is repeated next year, as it is repeated year after year, and then the question of the responsibilities of the person and the authorities who failed to fulfil their obligations is then determined responsibility and sanctions are imposed – someone is relieved. Then we'll have the right audit system and then he'll have his full purpose and his full purpose. So we must simply complete both normatively and in practice a system of responsibility for what the revision in its work finds. This has not been done in BiH. We don't have it, and that's why we have a repeat of these phenomena year after year. And next year, look at the recommendations whose realization is under way. Look at the recommendations that haven't been realized. For ten years, it's been said that the internal control system isn't set up, in every report. Let's see why. Has a meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers ever been held on the subject of internal reports in institutions and why has this not been done? Has there ever been a question of job transparency, has there ever been a question of transparency and how the criteria for the procurement of equipment in institutions? There's no such thing. That's why we have the state we have, and we're going to do it year after year and how much we throw this public debate, and that's where it ends. That's not the purpose of the review. When they practiced here in 2000, in 2001, there was a man from Norway, a former vice president came to Stortii. At the time, he was the general auditor of Norway and explained how a mistake was made in planning a tunnel to Oslo. It came across a slippery terrain, a mistake was made, so you can see who was responsible and what happened after that audit report. With us people can write as much as they want, eventually this ends the way it ends. And I suggest, therefore, that the College, that the Council of Ministers, that we here in Parliament must further think of what to do after the revision has established what it has found. We don't have those endings, and that's why we have the condition we have. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7358	Replica, Deputy Chairman. Božo Ljubić. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7359	I, therefore, address my colleagues and colleagues at the beginning of the debate of the distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. And I've been as the head of the session so far in the dilemma whether to address you in a similar way as he did, but it's addressed to me, in a way to all of us. I truly think that the institution of replica here is being misused in Parliament which, of course, as counterpart Džaferović said, is in some way disrupting the continuity of the debate, and very little replica has been specifically addressed to the debater or part of his discussion. But I also can't say that any replica came out of the broader context of what was said before this. However, it is up to us how we will treat it. We wouldn't want to, at least I wouldn't want to be the chairman of being a cop. I think we're all responsible enough for our time and for this House so we can act that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7360	Niko Lozančić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7361	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the distinguished members of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, the Council of Ministers, I will say that I am first pleased, regardless of what a good part of my debate was taken from me, so to speak, what Mr Džaferović debated before me. Although I have followed all the debates so far, it seems to me that this was the only debate on the agenda point we are currently discussing. I would like to point out that the Office for Auditing BiH institutions has been established by the basis of the Audit Law, which adopted this Parliamentary Assembly and I welcome the way in which the Office for Auditing performs its function, because I think that despite the various attempts and the various motivations, it still ensures the impartial and independent action of this more than important BiH institution. When for any reason, perhaps even in good faith, we attack the Office because it does not act as SIPA, because it does not act as the Prosecutor's Office, because it does not behave according to some of our desired projections, and it is a form of pressure on the independence of the Office's work, or on the work of the Office according to some wishes, and beyond the applicable Law on the Audit of Institutions. I want to welcome this report. And, from this report, a few things can be determined. First, that the Audit Office performs its function in accordance with the Law on the Audit of Institutions. Secondly, to ensure continued progress in the functioning of this institution. And third, that they are visible, however it seems to anyone, visible both the progress and the results of this institution's actions. We're going to one of the next sessions, some of our colleagues have already mentioned it, we're going to have individual audit reports from individual institutions. And we'll see that we don't have any negative reports. I can also be satisfied and dissatisfied with the fact that the Audit Office has not given anyone a negative report but as far as I am addressed to this issue there are standards based on which the Audit Office gives a negative, positive opinion with a reserve, an opinion with a recommendation. I want to believe that despite the different needs and different motives, this institution has, in my view, preserved independence and acted in line with the established standards. The evaluations of many international experts for this area confirm, much more and much better than I do, that we have a respectable institution for the review of BiH institutions. I am not in favour of using this debate, when we talk about the revision of BiH institutions, namely one of the audits, the revision of the 2010 Implementation Report, as a motive for the debate on the state of crime in BiH, on relations between political entities in this country, on pleasures and dissatisfactions, because it is simply not the subject of this meeting and will not contribute to this institution and some other institutions doing their part of the job. After all, many times so far, by discussing similar topics, about the reports of this institution, we used similar terms here for various reasons, saying, I tell them, I don't think we're all, but fellow MPs, how some stole all the money in this country, so some like that wouldn't let them do it, how do I, because that's how I figure, allows such a soft institution of review, because they won't say who's a thief and who steals it. I call on all colleagues and colleagues to study the Law on the Audit of Institutions, to see what the mandate of this institution is and not to ask this institution for something that has not really been given by law in its term of office, in part of its affairs. But that doesn't prevent us from using dozens of these recommendations, which we hear every time, not over-exploiting and using, so let's say under the circumstances, let's not abuse here in favour of our own political promotion, I didn't see anyone suggesting yet, I was tempted to do it myself, so I decided that I wouldn't, that someone would propose a law that would limit all of this, the forms of consumption that, here, we say they're not okay, that I didn't pick them up individually. And in the end, I'm going to say how often we're hypocritical when we're discussing all this. I know by chance, and you know that, and I heard this this morning from a distinguished colleague, that a political gathering was planned these days in one of our neighbouring countries, and in a joke my colleague told me what it looks like to be held there a joint session of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly because so many fellow MPs and envoys will be present at this meeting, in one of our neighbouring states. So when we talk about the justification of consumption, and someone's going to pay, so we understand each other, no matter what the organizer says I'm paying for it, let's just do it ourselves. Let's see how much we use these benefits that we hit so hard when they're given to someone else, how much we use official travel around the world where there's no effect, how much we use on cell phones, how much we use on anything else, so let's set our own example. And it may be more effective than this review opinion with the recommendation to show others how to save. And finally, once again, I welcome the report from the Audit Office. I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we support this report, as it has done, I must say in a very substantive debate, and this Budget and Finance Commission which has been reviewing this report, and we will have opportunities, as we consider these individual reports on realisation, on the revision of institutions, and on all those 17 or 18 that have received a reserve rating, to show our commitment in terms of possible savings, in terms of rationalisation, in terms of more moral use of budgetary resources, so, if you will, I am also ready to talk about the law here in this Parliamentary Assembly that will limit spending at all levels of BiH authorities. Let's pass such a law, to show a desire to be safe in the entire country, not just selectively how it suits us. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7362	Mr. Belkić, I'll just remind you that when you report for a replica, please report immediately and indicate whether it is in accordance with Article 70 (1) or Article (2). Anyone who violates attitude (1) or attitude (2) and abuses the Institute of Replica will be warned. The word is Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7363	Received knowledge. So my replica is according to qualifications on how to participate us MPs here in the debate. Mr. Ljubić, reacting to the qualifications Mr. Džaferović has said about what I agree with. I often do not like the way someone discusses a subject. Someone resorts to replicas, someone resorts to other interventions, sometimes including me, we throw etc., but none of us here gives it to the right, to like it or not to like it, that it imposes the way it will work in this House. So all of us together just have to have tolerance. After all, we took care of the Rules of Procedure. And we need to help the College run these sessions properly. I really needed to ask all of us to refrain from qualifications on how each of us participates on certain points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7364	Okay. This is still in line with democracy. There are no large dissonant tones or serious violations of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7365	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, the last couple of debaters took these contents that I was going to say too, but I have to say that I don't see that there was any abuse of replicas. Replications come very well in parliaments, sometimes they serve to clean brains, give an impulse to better thinking, etc. So, I'd be against something being readjusted, or, what's important here, so what's the big deal? I think Džaferović is on the right track and Mrs Dervoz, therefore, who mentioned several things that are very important when it comes to budget implementation. The budget is a very important thing. The budget has the power of law. In this case, the Audit Office has done its job. So he does his job, records the situation, determines some facts and get the authorities to consider them. The second thing is whether it will be taken by other authorities, such as the prosecution, etc., for consideration and find it appropriate to initiate certain proceedings. There are cracks on that route. What are those cracks? It's Parliament's fault for those cracks. Those who have identified Parliament as guilty, I think he is guilty. Look, there's no crime without the law being prescribed, nor can the state authority do what the law does not allow. So these are the things that should be considered when talking about the budget. I think the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution or some other law, can be called and otherwise, is not complete, no appropriate provisions have been incorporated. The laws are unscheduled and do not provide for certain sanctions, i.e. the essence of everything is responsibility, but this should be normically worked out. So that 65 should normally be said, what represents individual actions in the competent authorities, which are actions that represent a violation of the law, continue to qualify as follows. That's what we don't have. So I see the possibility of such things being incorporated into the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution. Spending money is abnormal, I think we have to admit, and there shouldn't be any party confrontation, because it's all in our interest to save money, because this country goes into debt, and it scares me when I see the tendency of that phenomenon. So it's an important thing, not a matter of whether someone's limiting the resources from this motive or the other motive. So, legal regulations. And right now, we've been listening to the discussion and things are repeating each year, we need to come up with a systematic understanding of what we need to do in this situation. So to form certain bodies to make certain legal projects. But we sometimes spend time on many other things, not on the right things, the essential things that would make our lives more bearable and more quality. The question of what everyone usually tangs is the question of the use of official vehicles. I have to say that I was a little bothered by this campaign against MPs, some media, and they are quite... so I say, the rules have been laid down for them, so when I can use the vehicle, how I can use the vehicle, etc., they have a fixed salary, and other categories, especially executive authority, which, I must say, are not controlled. We need to install mechanisms to control the executive. This Parliament can have very important powers towards the executive authority. We can't accept the fact, be careful to buy a car of 250,000 marks. I'm asking if we're crazy in that case or what about us? What about us? Well, those funds are being taken out of my pocket, out of all our pockets. So that's unacceptable. Symbolics. So it can't be accepted and it can't be tolerated for years, and it repeats itself. Please, every minister comes, buys a new car park. It changes the secretary, changes state officials, etc. So how long are we going to be, so the modern world doesn't know. It's what the modern world consciously sanctions. Well, you can't change a clerk when someone remembers, etc., etc. You can't buy a car, I don't know, there's no upper limit. But it's Parliament's fault. You have to say what's the limit that the minister can buy a car. Why wouldn't that limit be 50-60,000 marks? Well, that's a fantastic car. See Davos, in winter when the summit economist in Switzerland is held, look there which cars come, so the cars passat, middle category. You don't have what's in our possession. It's nowhere in the world! I think we're... No entities are excluded, I'm only talking about state institutions, ma and entities, cantons, etc. I think we need to find regulations, find ways and get the strength to deal with it normally. It should be dealt with normally. And when it's in the norm, then we'll ask the D.A. why you're not applying that legal code. So, the bottom line is that. There's a lot more to talk about, but hopefully this will be some impulse to go, at least take the first step in fixing that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7366	I'm closing the debate within the 5th item of the agenda. I thank the MPs for the attention they have given for the reason regarding points 4 and 5 of today's agenda. I think it's a good thing and we should commend one of these serious approaches to these serious issues of the House of Representatives. And how fortunate that the other home, the House of Nations, follow us both in work and in dynamics. Unfortunately, I have to say that in the last four months, the House of the Peoples sat only in September, although we are two equal homes, which is why there are a whole series of things. But we'll have to talk about it elsewhere. 66 We move to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Report on the implementation of the Prevention and Combating Domestic Violence Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2009 to 2011, the BiH Council of Ministers' material The BiH Gender Equality Agency submitted a report adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 161st session, held in 15.9.2011, on 22.9.2011. In 27.10.2011, the Commission for Gender Equality submitted a proposal to consider the House's Report and proposes to the House to adopt and adopt the following conclusions. It's about two conclusions you've got. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. There are no reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7368	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7369	It does if you're registered to a display. I'd like to ask you, it's okay now. The word has Niko Lozančić, but in the future, here is to register neatly. The word is from MP Lozančić and also from the chairman of this committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7370	Thank you, Mr. President. Sorry, I acted a little late. Well, I could almost suggest that we bring together a debate from these next three agenda points, because it is mostly a similar topic, but you have already said that we have a report on the implementation of the prevention and fight against domestic violence in BiH for 2010 and from this strategy for the period 2009 to 2011. From this report, you could conclude that our Gender Equality Agency, whose director I welcome here, in cooperation with the entity agencies for gender equality, has drawn up a joint report. And not wanting to take a lot of time, I would like to call on the House of Representatives to support the conclusions of this committee, i.e. to support this report and the recommendations and conclusions of the report adopted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7371	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the sixth item of the agenda. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: 67 Ad. 7 Report on the implementation of the UNSC Action Plan 1325 "Wife, Peace and Security" in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011 for the period from 27.7.2010 to 27.7.2011, the Council of Ministers material I'm opening a debate. Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7373	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. On this occasion, I would like to commend the report on the implementation of the UNSC Action Plan for the implementation of UNSC Resolution 1325 "Lady, Peace and Security" in BiH. Of course, I would also like to commend the director, or the BiH Gender Equality Agency, who made this Action Plan in co-operation with the RS and Federation of BiH Gender Centres, then the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of the Interior of the Federation, then the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Security and all other relevant factors involved in this very important topic. What makes Resolution 1325 significant? I would just like to meet our honourable Members, of course I will not take much time, it is important that this is one material that our Agency, or the first in Southeast Europe of all countries, has given as one model for all future countries in our region, which is praised by all relevant factors in the UN, of course and in neighbouring countries. What's this about? So, the point is that our Gender Equality Agency has recognised in the Action Plan that has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH certain so-called Women's questions, that is, those women's questions relating to the domain of human rights. And she recognized them very well. For example. They sought in this Action Plan an increase in women's participation in decision-making places at all levels of government, and then the fight against trafficking in persons, and the increased participation of women in peacekeeping missions, etc., not to mention. Anyway, for all the commendation. And once again, we're giving the principal a confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7374	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. UN fourth and fifth periodic report on Cedaw Bosnia and Herzegovina, Council of Ministers material 68 And here we have that the Gender Equality Agency delivered a report adopted by the Council of Ministers at the 152nd session. On 27.10.2011, the Commission for Gender Equality submitted a proposal to review the House Report and proposed two conclusions. I'm opening a debate on the report. Ismeta Dervoz applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7376	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, firstly I would like to point out the satisfaction of the way in which the Committee on Gender Equality of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is accomplishing its tasks in cooperation with the Committee on Gender Equality at the Ministry of Refugees, Displaced Persons and Gender Equality of BiH. What is significant is that in all our activities as parliamentarians in Europe, I can especially point out my activities within a delegation to the Council of Europe as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality – it is recognised and it is noted that the good work of the Agency and the Ministry has always been pointed out that BiH has an extraordinary legislation in this area which is on the trail of those who are among the better in Europe. At the beginning of today's session, I pointed out the initiative that BiH parliamentarians join at all levels in actions related to gender equality to prevent especially violence against women and domestic violence, and I therefore again underline it this time. Please note one of the conclusions related to the review of BiH's fourth and fifth periodic report on CEDAW. In view of the fact that the competent ministries do not generally implement the provision of Article 30. The law on achieving gender equality in BiH on mandatory compliance with the provisions of this law is recommended to the BiH Council of Ministers before laying down the draft laws and other provisions of their drafts in the future delivers to the BiH Gender Equality Agency at the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, in order to obtain an opinion on compliance with the Law on Gender Equality in BiH, because this is the road we will be fully prepared for with harmonised laws when we need them in the process of stabilisation and accession. In addition, I know that I am doing this on behalf of all other members of this committee, I support the 2nd conclusion and the proposal that the House of Representatives finds that the BiH Gender Equality Agency is a significant increase in activity, especially in the implementation of strategic documents such as the Gender Action Plan and the UN Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325, which requires further staffing. Once again, I would just like to point out and point out for those colleagues who were not in the process that the first regional seminar on promoting the Council of Europe convention on violence against women and domestic violence was held in BiH and Sarajevo, which is what needs to be talked about even more and even more significantly these days. And that is why I thank all the colleagues who have allowed us to have BiH registered as the first country to organise such a regional conference and seminar. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7377	I find that there are no more reports. I'm closing the debate within the 8th item of the agenda. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. A half-year review of the implementation of activities from the Action Plan for the Implementation of Priorities under the European Partnership with Bosnia and Herzegovina document for the period from 1.1.2011 to 30.6.2011, the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH The BiH Council of Ministers delivered this material to the parliamentary procedure on 31.8.2011. The Joint Commission for European Integration delivered an opinion on this material on 10.11.2011. The Commission has proposed to the House a total of four conclusions that you have received. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7379	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this has to do with the next item of the agenda, as well as that part of the agenda relating to my initiative, which is now included in this session. Today we can end, as far as I'm concerned, this debate, whether, in this way, without the presence of the people of the Council of Ministers, because I think that when we discuss these topics in the future, three months as proposed or more frequently, and this European Partnership and State of Implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, here must be the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Director of the Agency for European Integration. So these two people have to, (?) No microphone turned on Director of the Directorate for European Integration, so they must be here and this topic must have that kind of significance. I ask you that, next time we discuss this, this must be the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Directors of the Directorate. Why does it matter? It's important because we now know where the problem is and we know what these problems are doing. We know now that the problem is because no state aid law has been passed. Here, be told, I don't know what's wrong with that law, which is not on the agenda today to decide on it. We know that this is a political condition concerning the European Court of Human Rights ruling, we know what is done and what is trying to do. We know that these laws on companies in the Federation of BiH are something, therefore by the government and Parliament of the Federation. We know this stuff with these chains is a problem. We also know when it comes to the European Partnership that it is a banking supervisory, 70 we know what the situation is when it comes to banking supervisory, what is actually done on this plan by both government and non-governmental sectors. We know it's the Bond Act, etc. Today this, as far as I'm concerned, can be done as a debate, but next time we're going to have to do point by point. Why is BiH lagging behind on its European path, where are the problems, who does not realize what has taken the obligation to realise? And that can only be the point, so this debate. If that goes from the Council of Ministers to this commission, from this commission to Parliament, and there's no action here that's gonna bring back the real core action, moving things from a dead end, then I don't think we've done the job we're supposed to do as Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7381	I just want to remind you that we in the College, too, believe you all fellow MPs, expected to be in charge today at this point in the agenda. And personally, I have to say, I don't think there's any excuse why there are no authorities when we open this question. The word has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7382	Thank you. One business intervention. Did we agree to conduct the discussion two points together, nine and ten? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then I'll take the 10th, because it's tied to the 9th, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7384	Word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7385	Well, I want to look again at Mr. Džaferović's discussion on this occasion. I totally agree with him. We are otherwise members of this Commission for European Integration, really when we look here, so this report by the Council of Ministers on European Integration – we have a worrying situation. This worrying state that is currently exploiting little of our media and everything else, so it must be about those who are of course meant to be, and they're not here. Exactly what Mr. Šefik Džaferović said. So we should have the presence of the Council of Ministers here. It can't do this, because these are very crucial questions. So European integration must be part of our daily work in the BiH Parliament, because this is now our number one task by all criteria of relevant international factors. As for this next point, I don't know, I can say at the next point, but these are really... 71 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, I'll go to the next one. So, I, in front of this committee, because I am in charge today, means as a representative of the Commission for European Integration,... means that the Commission proposes to the House that this report be taken into account and to adopt the Commission's conclusions. The Commission's conclusions hope that all MPs have been given so that we do not have to quote them.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7387	I remind you that we have the right to postpone the debate and to seek out the promoters on a subject like this. So that's not off either. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7388	So I would like to make a contribution to this agenda point and I really think that the Commission was right to make these comments here. I especially speak when it comes to open questions. So it's amazing that the Directorate hasn't raised open issues, and these are the political problems... that we don't have a political agreement on. So I'd like to know what those questions are that can simply be solved. Let us say, how can this be resolved: to strengthen independence and accountability of the judicial system, and to improve its effectiveness, including the reduction of leftover cases. Well, that's one long-term measure we won't be doing soon. But what bothers us to finish the list question, what's the problem? There are a whole series of things here that can be solved in due course, but there's a whole series that's connected to party reconciliation and that won't be and who knows when they'll be solved. So, I don't think this is material based on which any serious discussion can be conducted. All the recommendations made by the Commission for European Integrations should be met and in the new material that comes to us specifically explain each of these four points, because they accurately define what should be delivered in order for parliamentary debates to be conducted in a satisfactory manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7389	The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7390	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Basically, Mrs. Majkić took what I was about to say. So I would draw attention to these very open questions. So if you look at the original action plan document he basically has 145 pages, this one doesn't have half of it. So, only some of the commitments related to 2010-2011 are listed here, however, and there are many of these measures left out, and we are also not told what happened to the measures that were taken during 2008 and 2009. So we basically didn't get a picture of what was done or what was going on, or what we should just do. So I agree with 72 Mrs. Majkićka that we really need to be complemented by this document and with all certain activities, with measures that have been done so far and I certainly support the Commission's opinion with all those objections that they have made. However, on this occasion, it would refer to one of the priorities under EP3KP045, relating to the rules and framework for standardisation, measurement, accreditation and certification of products. I have recently learned very interesting information relating to this problem, so I need to share this information with my colleagues, since there is almost no one from the Council of Ministers, or from those agencies. We do not have a strategy for the development of the measurement system, which is not listed in this document at all as one of the problems, or as one of the shortcomings. It means we don't have adequate coordination between the state-run measuring institute and entity institutes. We don't even have an adequate legal framework... that applies to the field of standardisation, measurement, accreditation and certification of products, and the approximation of technical regulations to AKI, which is actually our obligation. Certain institutions, I mean institutes and labs, real analysis, let's say, now for food regularity, so I'm going to focus on one area, on the basis of, be careful now, the SFRJ Regulation, more specifically, from 1983, and certain types of food are not listed, as well as certain diseases and causes of the disease, so that our labs can only conclude that certain bacteria and causes of the disease appear in food, however, according to that regulation, so according to its categorization, they must declare food usable to human nutrition. So, I have one piece of information that we have a new... draft regulation that's in the Council of Ministers, so it's been standing for another three years already that new regulation, so I'm sorry we don't have any relevant persons from the Council of Ministers who would answer this very interesting question. Also significant competition for state labs because of their inadequate technical skills is also represented by private labs. The problem, however, is that private labs are conducting a broad range analysis of products, literally from food to oil derivatives. Now the question arises: how many labs, however well-trained, can do such an analysis? So the question now is the relevance of the findings. Likewise, when it comes to standardisation, the question of European standards that apply to us is also raised. Namely one number, here I have enough material, or evidence that certain standards are guided as BAS standards, are basically taken over by European standards, EN standards, and are not translated at all, or is translated only by the first page, and is required by our people in labs, in different institutes to adhere to these standards, and basically people do not even know how to translate a certain standard. So only one page has been translated, and it is expected that controls and analyses are being carried out based on those standards. The Institute of Standardisation has adopted more than 11,000 European standards, but certainly the problem is that we have very little market surveillance. So you can. These were some problems, some of the information I wanted to share with my colleagues regarding the measure. I repeat again, I regret that there is no one from this ministry to give me an answer when it comes to the fate of individual regulations that buy dust somewhere in drawers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7391	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7392	Here, in the most part, I join the views expressed on these materials, but this whole situation in some way, at least for me, was created because the Joint College of both Houses of Parliament concluded that these materials were delivered to the Joint Commission, etc., and even recommended that future materials from the European Integration Directorate be sent to this commission, and then, in accordance with the 2009 conclusion of both homes, to be considered here. So we ourselves have in some way excluded the Council of Ministers, i.e. excluded relevant institutions that can assess what Džaferović was talking about and others. So, to be exact and concrete about every open question that some kind of comment and... why does it care. We can't expect this from the Directorate. And I fully understand the people of the Directorate for European Integration, they are practically trying to faithfully, crediblely reflect the situation and inform us about it. And I wouldn't be inclined to accept it like this, and then in the next half-year's report, we're fixing things. I would simply postpone the statement on this report, and ask the Council of Ministers to implement these conclusions proposed by the Joint Commission, which means that we get a comment, an analysis of the open questions why the deadlines have broken, why this law has not been passed, why that one. And I'm sure the Council of Ministers has a complete overview of those things that some people here have said through their discussion and what it is that we have ahead of us and we haven't finished. So my opinion, perhaps, if, of course, is businessly possible, that we do not plead, that we should leave, in some way, to continue the debate with the additional information provided by the Council of Ministers when it comes to the conclusions of this Joint Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7393	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7394	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what I need to do with a few sentences of what the predecessors said. As a member of the Commission for European Integration, I immediately asked for wider information on the state of play, that is, some kind of reference state from which I can start with understanding of the problem and the situation found in the state that I could also report this home, and that I could first and foremost tackle myself with some problems and defend them or try to solve them if they are not properly solved. Of course, they said we'd get that information sometime, and that hasn't happened yet. What is the task and why are we talking here to the Directorate for European Integration, why are questions addressed? The European Integration Directorate is doing its job well in the sense that it collects information, what are BiH's obligations to fulfil its obligations, i.e. signed contracts and agreements leading to European integration. The Directorate for European Integration has its capacities that are not there to interpret certain things, but only to record them and to deliver them to us in the Council of Ministers procedure that needs to be discussed. And we have received a very neat list of these obligations from the Directorate for European Integration, but only for a certain period... and in this list it is very difficult to assess without any specific clarifications that should be given to us from the Council of Ministers what it is. I have read these materials, of course, and I have kept in mind that most of the planned commitments, which were planned, have been put forward by the Directorate for European Integration, and the Council of 74 ministers has considered and directed as such to the Commission for European Integration, and through this Commission, it has given such a report in the procedure, which shows that nothing in fact has been done on this plan. Given the importance of this matter, and given what the predecessors have said, I am now asking that we find some possibility of a business, like this, at the end of today's meeting of the House we find more time to return this and to consider it according to the proposals, the conclusions of this commission. I also join those who are thinking that all these materials relating to European integration, which are related to this and come to us from the Council of Ministers, would require that they be present in charge. This isn't about one minister, this is about the Council of Ministers, so all those present tell us here why this isn't done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7395	I'm closing the debate on the ninth item of the agenda. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Report on the state of implementation of the Interim Agreement/Stabilising and Association Agreement for the period 1.1.2011 to 30.6.2011, material of the BiH Council of Ministers I'm opening a debate on the report. The word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7397	Well, here's another one for me to join my colleague Nermina. These are really very important issues for this Parliament. All that we see here today about European integration is practically these days our mission, and it is a very important task that we all have to keep everyone from doing. As for the implementation of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement..., it is clear to us that there is indeed a great delay here, that we have certain brakes. Here is what this commission is about to try to sort out, in some ways, the issue of Sejdić - Finc - which is one of the conditions that the European Commission has given us in our report that it has practically submitted. Then this is also about other very important issues regarding the BiH state. And yet again, I say once again that we cannot do this way, that we must pay particular attention to this, that there must be people present from the Council of Ministers. Since I am today the rapporteur of this Commission for European Integration, I have also been tasked with the House of Representatives that the Commission is proposing to the House to take the report into account and to adopt the Commission's conclusions. We have mentioned here... four conclusions in which we have virtually sublimed what we are dealing with, meaning briefly that we have very big problems with these European integrations, that is, these issues. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7398	The word has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7399	Thank you. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement for BiH to the European Union, i.e. BiH's partnership with the EU, aimed at slowly opening its EU market, in parallel to regulating its domestic market and adapting to the requirements of European acquis, and in this way by regulating the domestic market and adapting the law to the EU's funds and in some way balancing that part of the opening of the market towards Europe, so that our market could be competitive and that, in some ways, our economy could improve and... such a catastrophic situation as we have in the economy and this kind of unemployment, so the largest one in Europe, in some ways, we start from a dead spot and we start to solve. But what's going on? And here in this report you can see quite clearly. The opening of the market is the EU, normally smart people, automatically adjusted, the opening of the market went through automation: 1.1.2010. one part, 1.1.2011., the second part, 1.1.2012. we now have a discharge of one, i.e. a reduction of customs duties and duties and 1.1.2013. to equate the market. And that's what we agreed, the deal, it goes with automation. And the other part is left with us to fix the domestic market. As you can see here from this report, unfortunately, we haven't done anything. And practically, instead of some benefit from the Stabilisation and Association and Integration Agreement, we have great damage. And recently on a visit to Brussels when we were, BiH's friends said: well, here's the Stabilisation and Association Agreement if we were to accept it, we would have to abolish it immediately. I say, stop it as soon as possible, you don't even have to accept it because we only have bigger and more damage, unfortunately with such an agreement, but not because of you, but because of BiH and its institutions that didn't do the job. But here, I warn you, you've cleverly installed your provisions that you're interested in, so let's try to stop it, I said. And I don't get it, and I've asked a lot of people what's going to happen now that the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement is lifted. I think BiH would even benefit, not harm. In what situation have we also brought our economy to have now, explicitly arguing, the benefits, I repeat, to break up, because we have opened the market for an EU that only raises 70% of its budget to increase its competitiveness, 40% is in agriculture and 30% is in the industry. Over 70 and some billion European budgets provide funds for the support and competitiveness of our economy, and we have put our small and undeveloped, war-torn economy and our employers, normally, all of them in the gray economy, and there is no way that one survives and works, and everyone is in charge, no one can even repay their obligations, no credits. But what's there is, I've figured things out. It's been established on paper, but what to do. Now, here are the initiatives of this to open a debate on all these processes. I join these initiatives to discuss the economic situation. Mr. Džaferović Šefik gave the same initiative, and here it will be voted today on these things to discuss and discuss and discuss precisely on these topics. Because we don't have enough issues, I agree. Now we have a verdict committee from Strazbur, Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac, is an important topic, but it won't bring any economic benefit to the citizens. Is this a very important topic for BiH for its further... because we must first settle BiH and agree on BiH as we wish, it is a very important topic, but it will not do BiH any good at all. 76 And so, I say, I support my colleagues that we have more discussions in this house on this subject, and I will make a full contribution. And especially, when it comes to the EU, I hope that... we will have an understanding and I will make my contribution here and here, understanding that we can be helped in this because, if we continue this way for another year or two, I think that the BiH economy, in practice, or that we will not, that we will have more unemployed people, will remain those who are in the state budget, and employers will likely be in an even more catastrophic position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7400	The word has Danijela Martinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7401	Thank you very much. So, basically all of these objections that I had just before for the Action Plan might also refer to the report on the state of implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, only maybe I could say that this is even worse because we have such an important document. Only 11 pages have been given the status of implementation, the measure has been or has not been implemented. I am particularly concerned about this last 70 point, which refers to the information that we have not even started activities in building a programme for BiH's integration into the EU. In practice, therefore, we have no basic guidelines, no comprehensive strategy, no basis to prepare, adequate preparation for BiH to join, possibly, is one day, the EU's accession. Unfortunately, I must again conclude that there is no one from the Council of Ministers, i.e. persons concerning neither the Directorate for European Integration nor representatives of the Economic Planning Directorate. I would draw their attention to a strategy that the Republic of Croatia made five years ago, meaning 2007. She made one strategy, i.e. an analysis of the situation and the situation of the Croatian economy on more than 150 pages. So, in this study, using the methodology of the general balance model, a comparison analysis was conducted to assess the situation of the economy as a whole, which is basically what we should give a picture of the state of our entire national economy, and then an assessment of key economic indicators with cost-benefit analysis was carried out. So, they gave a picture of the investments, the current state of the GDP, the share of exports to the GDP, the level of gross, or unheating per employee, as well as projections of the movements of those individual indicators in the event of Croatia's entry into the EU. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7404	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7405	Never, huh? Okay. So, in practice, a comparative analysis of the current situation and conditions that could be, therefore, projections in the future based on analysis, a parallel analysis of the countries of Eastern Europe that have joined the EU. So the state and state of their national economies before entering and after entering. But, of course, here's now after these comments that my dear colleague Jovičić told me that they're not exactly following, but I think we're going to have some real problems not only do we not have these strategies, although I have information that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is going to do a comprehensive analysis at the beginning of next year. However, my regret and the ministries, or our Directorates, why one agency, or the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, makes such a single strategy and we do not have a strategy by our respective state institutions. So that's one grudge. And of course, I think there will also be problems in drawing up that strategy by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce because we do not have basic input economic indicators and basic statistical indicators in drawing up that strategy. But I hope next time there's gonna be someone from the ministry so we can at least be in the form of a question, right, and some initiatives to run everything I wanted to say to this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7406	The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7407	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are at several previous points, one of our colleagues mentioned that our officials in the executive office drive with expensive cars, have huge costs which, here, and are no problem if the results of their work are visible when it comes to protecting the interests of BiH and BiH citizens living in BiH. However, if we look only at the authority of this report, or this information that we have received from the Council of Ministers, is it, directly or indirectly, from the Directorate for European Integration, we will see that these officials do not care enough about the interests of BiH and its economy. On page 2, it says: 'BiH shows its willingness to lower its customs duties in trade with the EU faster than Article 6.11 has been established.' Why? Our officials, when they go to Europe, you know, they have this kind of 78 subjective relationship, let us, as soon as possible, achieve your interests and goals, regardless of what is at the expense of BiH's interest. He says, 'To adopt the BiH Customs Tariff Act, the text section is in line with European standards.' We also had several discussions in the previous session on several points, and there were attempts to change the customs tariff, i.e. the Customs Tariff Act, for a reason to protect the interest of BiH's economy. Why is there a customs tariff, or customs tariff? It is precisely to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy, i.e. the economy of its country from imports of non-competitive goods. In order to give just the funds collected from customs as an incentive to our economy, or export, in the first place, to a oriented economy. However, we seem to be doing the opposite. On the other hand, here after the war, it cannot be boasted that we have a developed industry, but we can boast that at least in agriculture we can pair EU countries. But when we look at this report, you will see that the measures are implemented: to lower the import tariff to 40%, to lift the remaining customs duties, to 40% of the customs duty, etc. The measures have all been carried out explicitly. Well, of course our industry can't handle the European industry, but agriculture, here's how-so you could handle it. Try, here we have a bilateral free trade agreement with the Republic of Turkey, try to implement agricultural products in Turkey. You'll wait a few years to get permission from their competent ministry. Why? Well, it's just... some, uh, creating some new obstacles. Our government, our Council of Ministers, the competent agencies do not care enough about BiH's economy. And that's why we're in the situation we're in. Next, I don't think this report has been updated. The wine law, as I recall, we brought it in. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Now, if it wasn't adopted in the House of Peoples, then it should be written it wasn't adopted in the House of Peoples, but it doesn't say here. So you should have. In addition, there are several sublegal acts, which, who are to be passed, the competent ministry, or the Council of Ministers, are not the problem of this parliament. And that's why I support this, the discussions that are required that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministers, directors of agencies or directors should stand here, or sit here and listen to what we're talking about today. I won't do it anymore, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7409	I thank my colleague Mehmedović. I'm closing the debate on the 10th agenda. We're going to the 11th point: 79 Ad. 11. Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH The European Integration Directorate, in line with the conclusion of the 8th session of the House, held on 25.8.2011, provided the information adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 165th session, held on 26.10.2011. The Joint Commission for European Integration delivered its opinion on 23.11.2011. The Joint Commission has received information and has proposed to the House the adoption of five conclusions that you have received in the materials. I'm opening a debate. The first one was registered for discussion by Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7411	... At my esteemed colleague Martinović. [[no microphone turned on]] I will not regret that there is no Council of Ministers here, I will not regret that there are no members of the Bureau or directors of the Directorates dealing with this problem, but I am sorry that we live in conditions in which the Presidency, in which the Council of Ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers, ministers and directors of state agencies, the BiH agency will not attend such topics as we are discussing today. A team before the perspective this report offers is a collapse. The collapse and collapse of the Bosnian Herzegovina economy due to the inability to export to the Republic of Croatia everything but fish and raw skin, which in total exports is a symbolic figure. We will also experience a collapse due to the inability to transit through the Republic of Croatia which is already becoming part of the EU and therefore there is no transit of exports to other countries. For this reason, I propose that, on the basis of Article 68(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we use the law today and decide not to discuss without the presence of members of the Bureau, without the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and directors of agencies dealing with this problem. So, first of all, by Article 68(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we decide not to debate without their presence. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7412	Intangible replica, Danijela Martinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7413	This is not actually a replica, but I would like to support my colleague Mešić, precisely because of another information I would also like to share with our colleagues. Namely, at the beginning of 12 months...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7414	I'm sorry I have to intervene. The replica exists if you want to correct something, but to support it, there is still no such replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7415	Then there's more information. How about that, more information? 80
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7416	I really need to put in order, so I'm gonna go, here, from my own. We're moving on to the discussion list. The word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7417	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'm really sorry today that I've activated a little bit like this, right, but that's because I'm a member of this European Integration Commission, because I'm practically in charge of explaining these things a little bit. As for the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, of course we as a BiH state will have major problems. We cannot, of course, say that we regret that Croatia will enter the EU, but we can only regret that we are not in one package together with all other Western Balkan countries, so that there is no problem there. However, when we read all these reports both on this commission and on our own, it can be said that the reports are stressful, because it turns out that as far as some trade is concerned with the Republic of Croatia which we will be able to carry out in the coming period... that only means BiH will be able to export to the Republic of Croatia raw skin and fish. This is terrible for us, because we know that the Republic of Croatia is indeed a big market for us as well as for the surrounding countries and that is one big problem for us. As far as all other implications are concerned, we must, of course, have no other way than to hurry very quickly, so that all of our issues of European integration are done as quickly as possible in order to get closer to the European market, in no other way. On behalf of the Commission for European Integration, I would like to say that the Commission proposes to the House to take the report into account and to adopt the conclusions of the Commission. They're being taxed here. We've really recognized what these problems are. There is also this material of implications after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU what will happen to us. And so much so that I don't bother the shelter anymore, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7418	Since counterpart Mešić had a proposal to postpone the debate, however, here is the opinion of the present and member of the College that since the debate has already been opened and the agenda has started to continue today. Word has a colleague, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7419	My colleagues and fellow MPs, I think we should discuss this as soon as possible because then we will welcome Croatia's moment of entry into the EU, which does not mean that we cannot conclude today after this debate to continue in another form and with the presence of members of the Council of Ministers, as far as I understand fellow Mešić that he has proposed. So, first of all, I would like to say that this information made by the Directorate for European Integration has been prepared very seriously, that it has been complemented by the Council of Ministers' conclusions and that these conclusions presented by the Commission for European Integrations have been followed by Parliament, so to speak, the logic and methodology of this information. What I would point out as an observation, so on all three of these 81 documents, which is that the greatest emphasis is on how to defend against the negative effects of Croatia's entry into the EU, whether it is about exports, whether it is about borders, whether it is about transport connection, the electricity sector, the water economy, etc. However, there is little in fact in the information itself, and even in these conclusions, it is treated how to take advantage of the advantages and chances of Croatia entering the EU for BiH, and in the first place, in the part of how to prepare our economic operators, our municipalities, our regions, our counties, entities, the state to run and apply programmes that will come on the agenda when Croatia is a member and BiH is a candidate. So these are, in the first place, projects of cross-border cooperation, cooperation of regions, etc., etc., and we should already start working on it today and benefit from the good experiences of Croatia and some other countries that have used the largest part of the EU's resources. So I don't have any serious objections to what's been prepared here, other than what's access, so to speak, a little with the guard,... rather than a proactive way of taking advantage of the odds. There is one sentence that is better for me, or assertion better, questionable, that is on page 4. which says: 'BiH is against the construction of the Komarna-Peljesac Bridge until open questions about the sea borders are resolved.' So, I don't know that some institution has brought such a view of BiH, that we are against it. For all I know, the dilemmas were also controversy over the height of that bridge and so on. the harmless passage from Neumsky... But in general, I think that Croatia's EU membership should be seen in a way of co-operation, and then Croatia should not have the need to build a bridge in order to bypass BiH's territory in the passage from its north to Dubrovnik, and neither should BiH as a basic argument of construction of the Stolac-Neum road put first the argument of bypassing Croatian territory. It is, I agree, that the Stolac-Neum road should be built, but as connecting two places in BiH, not as the main argument to be, as a recent official here from the federal government said, to bypass Croatia's territory after Croatia joins the EU. But what's there is. I conclude this debate in a way that we will best meet the challenges of Croatia's entry into the EU in a way that we can join Croatia as soon as possible, and we all know here what we are doing or not doing to make it happen. Well, here's the moment, when it comes to the laws of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership, the Bill on the Census, the Proposal for a Law on the State-aid System, which, as they would say in Serbian, is in a voluntary way out of this procedure, and I, as a member of the College, is not clear until the end of where it is now and at what stage. And that I don't say all the other things that stand before us that depend on us sitting here and discussing, which concerns our rapid entry into the EU and Croatian EU associations and, then, all these negative effects, all these challenges come into play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7420	The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7421	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it should be so easy to go over this proposal by Mr. Mešić and that we should reconcile his proposal and this need to discuss it here today. It is an unusually important issue, and I would not like to start discussing implications on July 1st 2013, then it will be too late, that is, to solve the problems that will arise as a result of the implications. 82 I propose that we today, therefore, support this Information on the implications of the EU's accession to the EU, which has eight conclusions, and the third talks about bilateral relations between BiH and Croatia, has 14 points, and that we support the views of this panel which has five conclusions. And the bottom line, so we've been informed today, we've read this before, the essence will be on the action plan and then to reconcile what Mr. Mešić suggested that the deadline for the delivery of the action plan for BiH's preparation for the answers and challenges that will take place for BiH when Croatia's EU accessions are done by the next session, not until the next session, but by the session in December 22nd. So we have a session of 8, we have 22, to deliver this action plan to the Council of Ministers by 22, not within two months, and then 22 at the session, it is the central point of the agenda, and then together, with the presence of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Directors of this Directorate for European Integration, let us discuss this matter. The action programme must be done by the end of next month, and then this will be what Mr. Mešić suggested, it will fit into each other. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7422	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7423	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore briefly refer to this information that we have today, so Information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. I join those colleagues and colleagues who have praised the Directorate for European Integration, because I also think they are doing a pretty good job. Of course, I am afraid that in BiH, when it comes to European integration, it opens up more and more issues and I am expressing myself, in a way, concerned that perhaps the scope of these issues is beginning to move slowly beyond the possibilities and capacities of the Directorate for European Integration, and in this sense we should hold some discussions in the coming period. So this information that we're discussing today is quite correctly written. To object to this information in any form when it comes to its content would be the same as to accuse the mirror of being ugly, and the picture of BiH's position in relation to Euro-Atlantic integration is unfortunately quite ugly at this point. We in BiH still haven't cleared up what we really want from this country. Do we want this country or do we not want it, do we sincerely want it as a member of the EU or do we want to keep it trapped, so on this hilly Balkans of ours? Dear counterpart Dr Ljubić has well noticed the intonation of this information and it is quite appropriate to note that we from the Republic of Croatia can and should learn a lot about the EU accession process itself. And one of the advantages that BiH, its citizens, its businessmen, and so do we, if we are politicians in BiH, is one of the significant advantages that we will finally get from mid-2013, conditionally speaking, in our own language and that we will be able to monitor all those processes and all that is happening in the EU and how things work, so in this one orderly system that we seek. 83 One of the main problems in integration, when it comes to BiH's integration into the EU, are certainly our institutional capacities and that is, it is also visible from the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers in this information and, therefore, you will see from these conclusions that the Council of Ministers practically owes itself and its institutions to do the work for which they are paid, the competent, etc. Attention should be paid to these conclusions and should be supported by the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integrations, which are heading towards a serious story about Croatia's entry into the EU and the consequences it will produce for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7424	Thank you. Dear Member Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7425	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I really had to continue that sentence, although Denis interrupted me, but of course I will also look back at the above mentioned material, as it is information that should give us a comprehensive assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. So, as we could see, different areas were given, I don't know, from solving property-legal relations to economics, interregional co-operation. However, I believe, when it comes to economics, or trade, that this material lacks quantification. In fact, it has been said that there will be significant consequences of Croatia's accession, but I think that the Directorate for European Integrations should have consulted the Economic Planning Directorate when it comes to certain economic indicators, so at least that we have an assessment of economic indicators, their changes when Croatia joins the EU. The second thing that has intrigued me is this last area relating to regional co-operation, i.e. interregional co-operation, which is therefore related to cooperation between regions of individual countries. So, it also refers to border co-operation of border regions, so BiH with the Republic of Croatia. Unlike the previous parts of this section, very little attention has been paid, and we know that the financial resources under the IPA Funds are significant, in particular the IPA Fund III. are foreseen for the interregional cooperation listed, which would, of course, represent one of the significant sources of funding, hence, the development of cross-border, or border areas in BiH. Also, what I wanted to finish,... perhaps I wrongly said, was not a replica, perhaps it was supposed to be a business intervention, or however – I wanted to inform my colleagues and that the Foreign Chamber is also preparing material relating to the comprehensive analysis of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. So... so my reaction was in that direction so we could wait for that material. It should be completed early next month, so we also have a comprehensive analysis by the Directorate for European Integration and the External Trade Chamber, at least when it comes to this economic problem. Thank you very much. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7426	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, Commissioner Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7427	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome you and these colleagues who have the patience to still be here, because I don't know if we have a quorum. First, I would like to support our MP Mešić's proposal. I think this was supposed to be delayed, but here we are, now we're on our way to a debate, and I checked out, so I checked in, and while we're discussing it, I'm going to say a few sentences about it. The information the European Integration Directorate has offered us here, we must accept that it is truly thorough, but also worrying. The data is worrying, as it pointed to a large number of open, unresolved issues between BiH and Croatia. Significant consequences of Croatia's EU accession are expected in the areas, what colleagues have said, property and legal relations, then border issues, including the issue of border inspection services, trade in industrial and agricultural products, further, travel documents, employment, social protection and others. The first plan puts the problem of property-legal relations as the interstate agreement has not yet been signed. It is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to indeed point out, if they do not say, to draw attention to the slowness in resolving property and legal requirements in Croatian courts that conduct a significant number of cases in which the right of ownership and investment in property owned by the former SFRY belonged to BiH. We have to accept that there are 18 months left, bh. to resolve bilateral disputes with the Republic of Croatia and remove the negative consequences of Croatia's EU accession from BiH. By providing as many border crossings as possible for the export of all, indeed, all types of goods, we can mitigate the negative consequences. So, in addition to those two crossing points that we have repeatedly mentioned that are relevant for the transition for products of plant and animal origin, this should be found, and the conclusions state this, the maritime border crossing, then the crossing between the City and the border of the Republic of Serbia, the crossing between Izačić and Metkovic and another crossing, which is Izačić, and I will explain this. With the aim of protecting bh. the exporter is suggested to insist on establishing a border inspection station with all inspection services at the crossing of Izačić-Ličko Petrovo Selo. From the field of labour, employment, social protection and pensions, here we must accept the information that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on two occasions in 2006 and 2008 initiated the conclusion of an agreement between BiH and Croatia on temporary employment bh. workers in Croatia. At this point, this ministry continues to persist, but I have a feeling that this is unfortunately impossible right now. I am convinced that this will not happen in the 18 months left for Croatia to join the EU. Each year, Croatia brings quotas for the employment of foreign workers, and by joining and entering the single labour market of EU countries, our workers will be treated as workers from outside the EU. The BiH institutions must be more energetic about resolving the working and social status of BiH workers employed in Croatia who are in the period '91-'95. The years are out of work, so you're fired. And that's what we can insist on and work on in the last 18 months. So we must insist and this problem must indeed be addressed through an agreement between the two governments, not to put our citizens in a position that they individually dispute in courts with the authorities of Croatia and lead litigation. This is unacceptable because we know that disputes rarely end positively, and when they are positive, and in such cases, this information has been stated, that companies have usually failed, are bankrupt and are not there. We also have to accept that 13600 injured workers have been reported to the employment services in BiH, although it is estimated that there are more than 60,000 cases, meaning cases in which BiH citizens would be slow, I said, with Croatia. Through these conclusions, which are mentioned in this information, there are no deadlines for the responsibilities given to the competent institutions, although I agree with my colleague Purić: these responsibilities that have been cited are actually the responsibilities of the ministries that are actually supposed to do their job, and that is their job to do. And I think I'm disappointed with the very information about some used solutions. Many disputes have been brought in half, some are in a draft, etc., agreements, agreements, agreements, but nothing is good and done, so we have to accept that it is not done. I believe that as urgent as possible all issues from the area of property-legal relations to border issues, including the issue of border inspection services, trade in agricultural and industrial products, citizenship, travel documents, employment, social protection, pensions, transport, and energy. And just to conclude, by improving the quality infrastructure system and achieving standards and EU requirements, we can improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7428	Thank you. The next one came to the discussion, Ambassador Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7429	Well, I was more of a variant to discuss in some much broader composition the implications that BiH will have after Croatia's entry into the EU. We are also aware that there has been a question repeatedly raised here about what will happen in certain areas after Croatia's entry into BiH, and we have never received it. What happens to borders, what happens to traffic, employment, what a colleague just spoke about, but we never got from the competent institutions, from the Council of Ministers we didn't get answers to those questions. Here, the Council of Ministers has given itself the task of only giving himself jobs, which are normally to be done on the job list, without a deadline and without a duty. For this reason, the Commission has also proposed to make this concrete and to make an analysis. A colleague, Šefik Džaferović, has suggested that we speed this up because the time left to resolve what has not been resolved in bilateral relations between Croatia and BiH leaks very quickly, and there are no positive solutions in the view or are not working on those solutions. There are not many positive influences and benefits that BiH will benefit from Croatia's entry into the EU in relation to what follows negatively from this, which is that BiH is shut down in its own frameworks and facing only neighbours in the east. 86 Using IPA funds for cross-border co-operation? These are not significant funds that can significantly change the situation in some areas, above all those programmed for 2012 and 2013 will be operational only in 2014, 2015, so this will not have a significant impact on the problem that will arise before then. But I'm still wondering what we're going to do from the many analyses we have, from the numbers, if we don't have the activity, unless the executive authority and the competent authority take concrete action with concrete perpetrators and concrete deadlines to resolve some issues. And according to this information and according to the list of problems that exist between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, it is clear that there are a very large number of problems that the authors of the analysis have listed here in several chapters. Each one of them is a big problem for itself and so far has been tried to solve and has not encountered a good climate to address these bilateral problems. What I'm saying is that, first of all, these unresolved border issues are being put in place and today they're being put under the rug, so we're countless times, first of all from the media, we should first of all hear what the proposals are and how we can decide not to be a question of solving the borders, bridge issues, first of all, the issues of getting political points ahead of the elections, but the issue of resolving interstate problems between the two serious states. I think entering, it is my deep belief that BiH has never profited from this, that Croatia's entry into the EU will make BiH's position in every respect very difficult for us. There's a quote here, and when it comes to education, which is so sweet, it's not going to change anything. Those who paid tuition will continue to pay it, and those who were released will still be released. Here's the only thing that's status quo. In each other we have a problem, in every other area, and in every other area we have to develop, this country with its institutions must develop serious bilateral co-operation and solve these problems that arise from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7430	I appreciate the business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7431	I, since my initiative has not been accepted, have the right under Article 70(2) to conclude my debate, and I would like to thank earlier all the MPs who supported me and continued the debate. I am not, of course, dissatisfied with the fact that there are no people present here who are supposed to be present, but I am dissatisfied with the fact that this material, which is very important, is one of the most important political and economical, foreign-political nature, the Council of Ministers has not used it to bring its own document that we are now looking for with this action programme, which is foreseen by the conclusions of our commission and has not brought a serious story about how we will be more prepared than the moment we are not prepared. So, the Council of Ministers, as the organizer of all business, business, political, social, state affairs, has the duty and obligation to fix these things. And this is an appeal. And I will exercise my right when we discuss the Council of Ministers' action plan to address this issue, unless I notice the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to request a delay in the debate. Actually, it's the only way we can get this story serious. 87 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7432	Thank you. I hope all MPs are aware of the business opportunities to request a postponement of the debate, otherwise the debate continues without that request as if it were not there. So put yourself to the vote. If MPs say the debate is delayed, the debate is delayed. It wasn't proposed, it wasn't put to a vote, we're moving on. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7433	Thank you. We need to make it clear that it is not up to us to develop the EU. We need to be clear that we have no veto in the Security Council, that we are not dependent on American energy stability, that neither on us is the Chinese economic stability. That we were not involved in solving financial problems or having 100 million inhabitants. What do I want to say to these? Not to be misunderstood that I am against the Stabilisation and Association and Entry Treaty and Croatia in this way. So we have no alternatives but the EU. Only the way we do it leads us all to be servants and poor women in the end. And I'm the one who wants to lead the debate in that direction, to avoid in 10-15 years, if we join the EU, not just being servants and poor. When it comes to IPA funds, five-degree components of IPA funds, so BiH is now using the first and second-degrees: it is aid in transition, institution building and, secondly, regional and interstate co-operation we know that this year, which is being discussed, is around 100m euros. But we need to understand from a statement from Croatian politicians that Croatia will receive nearly 3 billion euros in funding over the next two years. So what we say will be lost, if we meet the requirements, Croatia will go one more step further and we need to know where we are to make it easier to do so. Mr. Crescent. Honorable representative Božo Ljubić also told Neum. So now we have one, I don't know how much you know, but here's the information, big discrimination over the Neum economy. All the goods that are coming to Neum must go through Svetava, just like Stoca. So that's the way, I don't know which one of you went, it's a disaster from the road. And Croatia has, I say, an advantage, it has a comfortable passage of all its goods through Neum, and BiH can't do that. _________(?) It's up to us. Well, I mean, it's all up to us, that's what we do. I appeal that, just as we continue, we will not have employers in BiH, we will enter the EU only as servants and poor people. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7435	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7436	Well, I must admit that I have been reserved according to this information on the assessment of implications, as I am equally reserved and according to the views of those colleagues who expressed only their belief in the negative effects that will follow after Croatia's accession to the EU. I think that, as far as the information itself is concerned, she, in my opinion, would be better off instead of turning out as a list of open bilateral issues between the two countries, it would be, in my opinion, better and more meaningful, both more appropriate and time and the goal of focusing more on introspection, i.e. looking at those problems that will indeed become problems for Croatia's entry into the EU, but in terms of how, in which ways and with which real opportunities we can prevent them and prevent them in some way. I think that the fact that Croatia is simply going to be an integral part of the EU in less than two years is not only an opportunity for disaster but also a chance for the BiH economy, as well as some other segments of life. We will simply be forced to raise our goals and our standards to a significantly higher level and thus contribute to making certain things work in a better, better and more efficient way. Finally, I spoke with my colleague Kunić earlier – Slovenia, Hungary, Italy had joined the EU a long time ago, and I don't see that Croatia had any major negative effects. Maybe even on the contrary. Once again, I appeal that we turn more to those opportunities that are ahead of us, which are up to us, to analyze them and try to go that way instead of this, I don't know, list of open questions. I don't think that's really leading us to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7437	The last reported one is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I would like to join one debate of colleagues who have been discussing in the direction that this information on the assessment of the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU is very high quality and very interesting in contrast to others, because we are getting a lot of information, in this information we have in the end and the conclusions that who should do something to make these implications as painless as possible for BiH, when it comes to the entry of neighbouring Croatia into the EU. And I think that the initiative here will, in some very short time, make this action plan of the Council of Ministers – what to do, what concrete... steps to take and at what time to take steps to make us, on our part, what to do, in order to have as little damage as possible from this Croatia's entry into the EU. That still shows one fact,... I'll just add one sentence, many of us participated in the debate on the implementation of the verdict, so we wondered if it was because of the court itself, or because of BiH, or because of the people of BiH. So maybe we should have done these things earlier, prepared them, then in advance, and we should do it as soon as possible. So these specific works when it comes to border crossings. I don't think at all, I don't think BiH will lose too much. When I see this trade exchange between the Republic of Croatia and then we return one two years ago, or three, when the BiH Constitutional Court brought down the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production, all because of various lobbies and 89 interests, then we come back to this position that we will eventually not have the opportunity to trade with CEFTA countries, is it, because it will become our neighbour there, will become a member of the EU. Therefore, here I support all these discussions, I support BiH institutions and this Parliament, to take responsibility for us all to prepare within BiH, which is for us to finish our work. And while we are preparing in the EU there are parties in Croatia that are Eurosceptics, it is possible that they are completely different relations in the EU, because the EU, the fact is, today it faces major problems and in the environment in both Greece and Italy, and Hungary, and Portugal and Spain. Therefore, we need to prepare BiH for good and for a better standard for all its citizens, to regulate it as a legal state of equal nations, economically prosperous. Then it's the only way we're going to join the EU, and we're not ready for this yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7439	I thank Mr. Jurišić, representative of the Croatian Community coalition. I'm closing this agenda item. Moving to 12 points of the agenda: Ad. 12. Information on the Recommendation on HIV, AIDS and the work world No. 200 from 2010, International Labour Organisations, Council of Ministers material The civil service ministry provided information adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 161st session, held in 15.9.2011. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on Information on 22.11.2011. I'm opening a debate. No reports or anything? The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7441	Mr. Chairman, the Preopruk, AIDS and the world of work that was adopted at the International Labour Organisation conference in Geneva in June 2010 is indeed a document that should be found on our tables and also see the possibility and absolutely accept these recommendations as set out in the act itself. HIV and AIDS have a significant impact in the world of working on the sick worker himself, his family, employers, businesses, means society and economy. The increase in international co-operation under the UN Joint Programme for HIV-AIDS is a reflection of these recommendations and its implementation. The need for cooperation on this matter is unquestionable, at national, regional and international level, in terms of many responses to prevention, 90 treatment and assistance to workers or patients, promotion and voluntary counselling with voluntary testing, national development of labour-related policies and programmes, i.e. protection of work, education, social protection and health care, to the achievement of human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination and stigmatisation of workers, especially those seeking work. HIV status should not be the reason for the interruption of employment relations, and there is a great need to involve the local community in helping such workers. International cooperation should be encouraged among members through systematic exchange of information in all measures taken to respond to the HIV pandemic and through development plans and strategies should also work on poverty reduction with decent decent decent work and sustainable business. Therefore, I accept these recommendations absolutely as well as this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7442	I apologize for these little problems at the display, you should have gotten the word before. The word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7443	I'm joining my colleague Nermina on this recommendation that it must be adopted. The International Labour Organisation (MOR or ILO) is a very powerful organisation dealing with work security issues, work protection and all kinds of professional traumatisms at work, i.e. labour injuries, then occupational diseases, work diseases and all other issues related to the working world population. We all know that one of the basic human rights is the right to work. The UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the UN's World Health Organization, its Article 23, regulates this issue and gives every man his basic right to work. The International Labour Organisation or this ILO, the International Labour Organization has indeed adopted all the principles of this universal declaration of human rights and gives the possibility, here is just over one of these recommendations, meaning to all persons, even those who have suffered from HIV or AIDS, that they should not be discriminated against about their illness, and not only means workers who seek work or do it but also their families. I would say here, with this in mind that it is really important that we adopt this recommendation, because it is one of the ways that we integrate into these European flows, because it is clear that everything that this International Labour Organization, which deals with labour security, should also be of interest to our country. So, employees... who work must not be a danger to other workers who work in their environment, but they must not be even stigmatized, they and their families, in the process of work. So I really recommend that this recommendation be adopted along with my colleague Nermin, yes, and I support that we give a positive assessment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7444	Thank you. No more reports. 91 We move to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2010 You got the report. The Commission, i.e. the College as a commission, did not reach agreement. Today we declare ourselves in the second round about receiving information. There's no discussion here. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Discussing the BiH Law Department material provided for the adoption of the BiH Party's MPs' initiative to discuss the session at the House of Agenda: "Information of the BiH Law Department on preventing this institution from performing its functions under the law"
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7447	So here, after more than a year of launching the initiative by BiH to discuss this extremely important issue in this home, I am sure of everything, of course, in different ways we are experiencing it, here we have welcomed it, but unfortunately today we don't even have a material processor, therefore responsible people from the D.A., and this important issue seems to be discussed, so to speak, in judicial time, so at the very end. But here's what's there. Let me remind you, I believe that you have been informed, that you have read this information, that you are informed with our explanation of our initiative, etc., but several very important segments that we consider important to repeat. So what is undeniable to all the countries of the followers of the former Yugoslavia is that the properties belonging to the former federal authorities, located on the territory of the successor countries, belong to those countries, and BiH is disputed. BiH has become the owner, head of former federal authorities' real estate, as a signator of the Agreement on Sucession Issues in accordance with Annex a. Of course, this property must be recorded in land books and it is evident that the pravobranilaštvo has filed 61 requests to courts for data change in land books, 51 of which are for civil and 10 applications for military property. Of course, it's about the state's image in every way. By acting under the law, the courts began to make decisions to register uncontested ownership, but this activity was stopped by the High Representative, in a way that practically once recommended, one letter convinced the Advocate General to stop doing this job, so the pravobranilaštvo General withdrew 56 undeniable requirements for the registration of ownership, while already 5 cases had become legal and, fortunately, there was nothing more the Attorney General could do. 92 Of course, I could talk a lot about this information that practically finds reasons for not doing the job that the law has set for them, citing the argument that the High Representative recommended it, that a political agreement is expected. So, the pravobranilaštvo has entered into a kind of, so to speak, a slippery terrain, where an eminent legal issue is translated into a political issue. Niko one slows down the need or understanding, or no one disputes understanding that state property is not something the state should sit on as, I say, a chicken on its eggs and that it is jealous of it. It is the property of all people in BiH, all institutions etc., but it is the state that needs to determine its law in this House how to use and make available, including, as I say, an award without compensation of that property. So, when it comes to the second type of property, that property that is a matter of the continuity of the BiH state, therefore a member of the BiH Constitution, which belonged to the Republic of BiH, of course it is also BiH's property. I repeat that resolving this issue is of great interest to BiH, regardless of what we see in different ways as a solution to this problem, which has become a problem, for me and for us, completely unnecessary, and is reflected practically on our path and towards the EU, especially when it comes to the road to NATO. So, I'm talking about those 69 perspective locations that, in a way, are the condition in which the Council of Ministers... invites us to sign it up to the Ministry of Defense, or to the state, and that it will be a practical condition that we get our annual, so to speak, action plans, or that... is finally beginning to be realized. Here, in short, believing that all present MPs have dealt with this issue and that they know what it is, but for us in the Party for BiH this is indeed a strategic issue, a matter of great importance. We see it as one of the integration factors of this country, one of the fundamental characteristics of the country's integrity and sovereignty, and we will, of course, insist that the state decides uninterrupted through this Parliament, all together to decide what to do with this property that belongs to all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7448	Not wanting to reconsider the length of your discussions, or possibly those who intend to report by the end of this session, I just want to draw attention that there is a possibility, indeed, if we make an effort to complete this 14th session in the next 30 minutes. Otherwise, we'll have the next session on Thursday, and we've already scheduled this next 15, so we'll have a session in the coming weeks almost every week. So here's the distraction. The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7449	Thank you, Chairman. Here, just as Beriz mentioned, we agreed, given the time to really cut it short. I would just like to mention briefly, although there was not enough time, but in the procedure I referred a parliamentary question initiated in part of the information provided by the Advocate General at the Council's Initiative of the Party for BiH, which refers to the Commission for State Property which used those exceptions from the temporary ban on the question on which criteria, which are the number of decisions taken, what is the value of the real estate, etc. Given the importance of this problem and the expectations that each of you read with attention what stands in the order and between the lines, let me just propose two conclusions for a moment. First conclusion: BiH's Attorney General will continue the state property registration procedure in accordance with Annex A of the Agreement on Sucession Issues (published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", issue 43 of 2001). 93 And another conclusion: The priority in the process of enrolment of state property will be the property called upon by NATO communiqués from Tallinn since 23 April 2010 in which the North Atlantic Council is authorised in a permanent session to accept bh. The national programme, I quote, 'when all immovable property, which has been identified as needed for future defence purposes, is officially registered as state property of BiH and for use by the BiH Ministry of Defence', completed the quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7450	The word has Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7451	Well, I'm really saying that a long time ago this confusing material didn't come into these parliamentary benches. I wish I had received from the BiH Party which is the organizer of this initiative: did they get one answer that they didn't know. First, the signator of this document is Željka Klobučar, deputy BiH prosecutor. I remind you, it is 19.4.2011 in office. Medina Vilić. What does a document like this mean? Does this mean that BiH's attorney disagreed with this document, so Mrs. Klobučar as a deputy had to sign it? What does it mean to talk about things that are in the jurisdiction of the High Representative? A woman cries out to the right because what has not been done by the ban on a high representative has been disabled. So far, I cannot believe that the Advocate General in such a high position, that is, the Deputy Attorney General, has referred this document to the Parliamentary Assembly. This is really embarrassing. I wish the BiH Party had received one answer based on its initiative. I think all they wrote here was that they knew that. They say the deputy says the state property law was to be passed by 2006. So please, someone in 2011 is talking about how the law was to be passed in 2006. She's asking questions. Instead of responding to this initiative, she asks questions about who's responsible, so she says they rule us out when we're invited to round tables. Please, such inconsistencies are a disgrace to be found in Parliament. I don't know, if he helped, I'll be grateful to BiH stranka to tell me he helped something, but I see that while the BiH Party intervenes with the conclusions, it's obvious that the pravobranilaštvo didn't help her. But we should primarily make sure that what stands, we know that they rotate for a certain period all three, so in this mandate is not part of the order of the Croatian people,... she signed a document like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7452	Replica, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7453	I might get out of the Rules of Procedure. I thank Mrs. Majkić for giving this information for us. We weren't practically dealing with it, all of these things we knew exactly and knew, but we wanted to take advantage of it, I said in the beginning there weren't any people from the D.A.'s office, we wanted to use this time after a year and a half of waiting for this parliament to be determined anyway. So we've made these two conclusions, so go ahead, and we can discuss the D.A.'s case. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7454	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. A statement on MPs' initiative by Šefik Džaferović "To include in the work plan of the House of Representatives that every month the state of fulfillment of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has on its European, Euro-Atlantic and security path will be analysed" I'm opening a debate. The word has Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7456	So I will, on behalf of the European Integration Commission, reviewing it again, mean within my last week, and give one conclusion. This is how we agreed, meaning: 'The initiative of MP Šefik Džaferović is accepted with modified... so that it will be included in the work plan of the House of Representatives that a three-monthly analysis will be made of the state of fulfilment of the obligations that BiH has on its European, Euro-Atlantic and security path. The Commission proposes to the House to adopt this proposal, and we are three months... I apologize, as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7457	The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7458	Roger that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7459	No more reports. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Proposal for appointing members of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly (to be agreed on by the Joint College of both homes) On 9.11.2011, the Foreign Affairs Commission submitted a proposal for membership in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's friendship groups, noting that MPs at the House of Representatives 95 Zlatko Lagumdžija and Niko Lozančić failed to respond to a poll conducted among MPs, while MPs Nikola Špirić, Bariša Čolak and Senad Šepić were unable to respond to the poll. MP Nermin Purić of the BiH DNZ has defined the sixth group in the poll, however, because of the inability to participate in it he did not want to define himself for any group. At the 5th session, held on 16.11., the Joint College of both homes discussed the proposal, made some adjustments, and set out proposals for appointments to be made. Corrections are sound in this proposal. The College has taken the view that, when it comes to the House of Representatives, one MP should not be found in two groups. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to item 17 of the agenda, I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 17 to 25 of the agenda is united because it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please prepare yourselves. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7461	What about Serbian?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7462	Can someone call one of your colleagues? [[Common discussion]] This, as Šefik Džaferović would have said, this was not noble... was, was it, but it happened. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7469	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7470	At the request of the SNSD Club, we will repeat the vote. Please, you can't all talk at the same time. We voted on two conclusions and are now voting on receiving the initiative and on this material. I know they're not, maybe after these conclusions we shouldn't, but here's the thing, people have chosen to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7471	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-24-0.u7472	Do the others agree with this proposal by Mr Belkić that we do not vote on this after these two conclusions have been adopted? We all agree, we won't vote on this. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: The Declaration on MPsŠefik initiative "To include in the work plan of the House of Representatives that every month the state of fulfilment of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has on its European, Euro-Atlantic and Security Road will be analysed" We vote on the proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Commission on European Integration. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I realize we have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. Afterwards, the College will agree. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: Proposal for the appointment of members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly (to be agreed on by the Joint College of both homes) We vote in adopting a proposal for the appointment of members of interparliamentary friendship groups from the House of Representatives. 103 Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority and that we have adopted this proposal. I now propose that we vote first on all agreements from point 17 to point 25 in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find this proposal has been given to both the general and the entity majority. Now we're voting from point 17 to point 25. – Giving consent to ratification of the agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority and that we have given consent to ratify these agreements. The next 15th anniversary session is on 8 December 2011. Thank you for your cooperation. The seat's finished at 6:00.
