ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5879	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to the information service, 36 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the agenda, I want to introduce you that we have removed item 13. Report on realized permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008. Point 14. Report on licences issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009. Point 15. Information on the resolution of surplus weapons, ammunition and mines of the Armed Forces of BiH. These three points were removed from the agenda on the House College's proposal in the expanded composition, given that the materials that arrived in the parliamentary procedure a year ago and on which the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH called for. The materials will be referred to the Joint Commission of this call to give its opinion on them. We also took off point 16. Information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12.2010, since the Finance and Budget Commission has asked the House's College to remove the Information from the agenda, because it is large and requires special attention and discussion. We've completed point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Citizenship Act with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, which is negative for the second time. 2 I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. As part of the discussion on the agenda for the discussion, Aleksandra Pandurević reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am interested in whether the chairman of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is present here, given that we adopted the conclusion at the last session that his presence is being sought for the debate on the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. And I'm curious if the professional service can tell us if he's here and has been notified to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5881	I remind you that this is a debate on the agenda of today's session; whether or not someone is present, it has been practice so far, so I would like to say that someone does not attend at the beginning of the session but until the time of the opening of that agenda to appear. As far as the calls are concerned, they were properly invited according to our conclusions from the previous session.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5882	If he's not here, then we're looking for a download of the agenda. [[Common discussion]] Okay, I'll take it, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5884	The proposal is, so I think we've all been on the same page when it comes to that, so we wait for that agenda point if it's not at that point on the agenda, it's not a problem to come to a similar conclusion again. Given that this proposal has been accepted, I would like to conclude that there are no more applications for the debate on the agenda and to conclude that the 8th session of the House has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Issues (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament Questions; 3 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-6010, of 26.10.2010. (first reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-111, of 3. 2. 2011 (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, Law No 01,02-02-7-5910, of 19. Ten. 2010. (first reading); 6. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, proposed by the BiH Presidency, No 01,02-04-24411, of 21. 3. 2011; 7. Report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2010, material No 01,02-50-19-23911, dated 18. 3. 2011; 8 / 8 Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010, material No 01,02,011,021-08-38411, dated 20. 5. 2011 (the debate was held at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27th) Seven. 2011; 9. 2010 BHRT Work and Business Report, material 01,02-50-19-35211, of 4. 5. 2011 (settled statement at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27th) Seven. 2011; 10. Report on the work of the 2010 Appeal Office, material No 01,02-50-19-24811, of 22. 3. 2011 (also answered at the 7th session of the House of Representatives held on 27 July) Seven. 2011; 11. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010, material number 03-50-19-318-111, of 4. 5. 2011 (settled statement at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 27th) Seven. 2011; 12. Report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-28-68-110, of 24. 12. 2010; 13. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010, material number 012-09-48311, of 2. Six. 2011; 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency; 16. Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 17. Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens; 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Belgium on the paid work of supported members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff; 4 20. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on the landscape, Florence, 20.10.192000; 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Cultural Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of Rumunija; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Malaysia on Co-operation in the field of culture; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on border crossings for international traffic; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on police co-operation in the fight against cross-border crime; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on border crossings for border traffic; 28. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters; 29. Granting consent to ratify the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the State Programme (II). Part) for 2009 under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance; 30. Giving consent to ratifying the Defence Co-operation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro; 31. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2009; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina and OPEC of the Fund for International Development – Project of Housing Reconstruction; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and United Credit Bank Austria AG – Funding a project to supply equipment and provide services for two hospitals in Sarajevo; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the 2008 State Programme (Part I) under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5887	Mr. Chairman and the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that in the 7th session, delivered to all of us to correct the incorrect statement of my request for a conclusion regarding the agenda item 24. So, it reads: 'I propose to adopt a report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2010. year.' In the document of the conclusion I delivered, it is clear that the situation is diametrically opposite, a small word but a big difference, I propose not to adopt the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5888	Since there are no more reported when it comes to the 7th session of the House of Representatives, I am concluding the debate within the first item of the agenda. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received Until today's session, the answer to the asked question was: Dušanka Majkić of the High Representative for BiH, asked at the 3rd session of the House; Slavko Jovičić of RTV BiH, asked at the 5th session of the House; Aleksandra Pandurević of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, asked at the 5th session of the House; Nermin Purić of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, asked at the 5th session of the House; Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, asked at the 5th session of the House; Lazar Prodanović of the Ministry of Justice, asked at the 7th session of the House; Zijad Jagodić of the Civil Aviation Directorate of BiH, asked questions at the 7th session of Dom and Denis Bećirović of the Ministry of Defence, asked at the 7th session of the House. First I ask if there are any comments on the answers received. No, no one checked in, or do we have any comments on the answers received? Dušanka Majkić picked up first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5890	Dear Chairman, I would like to say that I received the high representative's response this morning, that I saw him, but I failed to analyze him, so I'm leaving a statement of response for the next session. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5891	Next up for discussion, Mirsad Đugum signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5892	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5893	Is this the same comment on your answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5894	Actually, one question: is it...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5895	A new parliamentary question?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5896	No, but... whether the answer to the asked question at the 5th session that Emir Kabil had asked came to the club and probably to the MPs, but was not read here, so we would have a comment on this question, or we would leave for the next session when it was found on the College's document. That is why it was not read today that the answer to this question came.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5897	I think if it hasn't been read, it's a technical mistake. If you already have a comment on your answer, I don't think it's a problem to give right away, if you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5898	Oh, thank you. Here is one comment on the issue raised about fiscalisation in the public and private sectors at the 5th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The reply we received from the finance minister in one section states: "This activity of public health institutions means there is no obligation to register traffic through fiscal devices, because for insured persons the price of health services is not determined, so the financing of health services is not done on the basis of the price list but on a flat-rate basis." This response is absolutely inadequate and I think the ministry and government have forgotten tens of thousands of people who don't have absolute health insurance. I don't have the information that the government has made sure that health insurance has people on hold, they're being treated like working relationships but they're on hold, or people who don't get paid for health insurance. Both categories have to pay for health insurance when they go to the health care facility and the hospital. It's incomprehensible that the government gives us the answer that there are no price tags. Health care prices exist in both health and hospital homes. Didn't each of us pay for the Health Insurance Convincation, Persuasion for passing the driver's exams, systematic checks, and that's all you pay for in public health institutions as well. Medicine is financed by 50% or 60% of the Institute of Health Insurance, and the rest goes to the free market. And so are other public institutions. 7 From all of this comes that traffic, and this significant traffic, also has health institutions in the public sector, and because of this response, because it was meant only for insured persons and not for other categories that are significantly endangered, I ask the question: ‘How many are health-insecure persons in the field of the Federation and the RS? How many people don't have health insurance because they're on hold? How many people don't have health insurance because they don't have pension and health insurance contributions? And on the basis of which it was decided to exclude the public sector from fiscalization, even though it was a '97 law. The private and public sectors are clearly at the same level, especially one part of the response given to the minister's response, where he says – since the resolution of systemic imbalances between the public and private health sectors if they exist at all."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5899	Comrade Đugum, time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5900	That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5901	Thank you. Just so we understand each other: was this the answer that was delivered to you or to Mr. Cable? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Everyone, is it, at the club, you put it in the name of the club. All right. Comment on the answer: Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. And after that, we open up new parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5903	Mr. Chairman, you've read that I've received an answer from the Justice Department. In my materials, I don't have that answer, I can't comment on it, please keep it right for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5904	We move on to b) New parliamentary questions. The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5906	Dear Chairman, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I have one parliamentary initiative. Google map, currently the most used map search service in the world, via the Google map website is possible satellite or cartographic to watch almost all of the world's countries to that extent in detail that even in small places you can see a plan of streets, more significant objects, etc. Also, most navigation systems are currently continuing on Google maps as their basic platform, and what is equally important is the fact that tourists use this service greatly in planning travel or during their stay in the places they visit. Why did I say all this? Because it is a really worrying fact that, according to information that can be found on the Internet and you can check it yourself -- BiH is the only country in Europe that has not been drawn up and, as the informers say, open maps of BiH cities, while, if we look at global scales, only North Korea is not present in this big world atlas. For North Korea, we can assume why it is not present, but an explanation for BiH for what I am looking for in this parliamentary issue, i.e. the initiative, I don't think there is any need to further explain what this means for the BiH image or what the reactions of potential tourists planning to travel to BiH are, so they try to achieve it in the usual way they do. Informal groups of young people from Banja Luka and Sarajevo have tried to initiate Google to address this issue. There are some promises, however, I am initiating that the entire story should include the competent ministry by contacting Google or other ways that they consider useful in order for maps within BiH to appear on a world-renowned service. Nevertheless, I am looking for information on the behaviour of the competent ministry on this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5907	The word has Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5908	My question is to the Department of Defense. In accordance with Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of I refer to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives the following questions: '1. Are the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff familiar with the information of the competent services on the failure of helicopters that came from Ukraine's repairs - Ikara? 2. Did the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff also form an expert commission to examine the allegations of supervisors and technical inspectors of the detected malfunctions after the completion of the remont and what are your findings? Put me on the commission's report. 3. What is the legal basis for the punishment of Colonel Predrag Planinčić and Ensign Duško Mrđa, who, due to the published text in the daily newspaper "Glas Srpske", since 6.9.2010, were punished by the strictest, five-month reduction in salary of 21%, despite the findings of the military police investigation team, which was later confirmed by both the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the District Prosecutor's Office in Banja Luka, and that there is no evidence of their responsibility? What are you justifying the apparent discredition of Serbian officers by the Armed Forces of BiH? 4. Why did Major Jelisaveta Kockar, a doctor of aviation medicine, comply with the Military Air Force Regulations and the formation site – to date have not obtained the right to a flight allowance? Who and with what intentions in the Armed Forces of BiH conducts a classic mobing over the appointed one? What do you justify discrediting the most professional Serbian personnel?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5909	The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5910	Ladies and gentlemen, I refer a letter, or three questions to the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate. The first question concerns 'rocks and deadlines for establishing air control, radar control of the Bosnian-Herzegovina sky'. The second is: 'Is the equipment being negotiated or obtained compatible with the equipment of the Republic of Serbia and Croatia?' And finally, the third question is, "What are the obstacles to the normal functioning of the BiH Air Transport Agency?" Of course, I insist on a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5911	Thank you. The word has Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5912	Thank you. My question is addressed to the finance minister and refers to the information we keep looking for but we do not get it, so we are forced to ask for this information in the form of a parliamentary question: 'How much money has been paid for the space purchased for the needs of the "Official Messenger of BiH", what is this amount per meter square? How much money is paid to buy space in Mostar for the needs of the Council of Ministers, and what is that amount per meter square?"
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5913	The word has Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5914	Mr. Chairman, my question is to the Ministry of Finance: 'I am interested in the amount of interest paid in 2010 and 2011 on the basis of uninvolved funds under approved loans, which projects are concerned and how much credit is it..., which is why the date of closure is extended, i.e. which is not withdrawn on the basis of approved contracts in the previous period?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5915	Thank you. I also have a few questions. First question: 'The framework law on higher education in BiH in Article 60(1) says it is the obligation of higher education institutions to comply with their statutes with this law within six months of the date of entry into force of the said law. The question is: Who controls the alignment and what will be done for those universities or levels of government if they do not comply with the law?" I ask the question to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and seek the answer in writing. The second question: 'The BiH Art Gallery is one of the oldest Bosnian-Herzegovina institutions dealing with art. It was founded in 1946. The BiH Art Gallery addressed the Bosnian-Herzegovina public saying -- a situation in which the BiH Art Gallery has been in place for the past 15 years, which has culminated in recent months, has forced us to make a decision that has been closed to the public since 1 September 2011. So, on this point, I ask the following question: Why does the Council of Ministers of BiH ignore the destruction of such institutions as are of national importance for the protection and promotion of culture and fine art?' I ask the question to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and I seek the answer in writing. The word has been respected by Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5916	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked this question in the last session, I have decided not to repeat it until a new composition of the Council of Ministers has been chosen, but, as it stands, I have decided to ask the question in this House of Representatives again. 'It is about the money the BiH state received by selling land for the US government's needs to build an embassy here in Sarajevo. It is known that in 2005, the Parliamentary Assembly had the property, it was for me the only legal availability of the state property of BiH, by selling the land for the purposes of building an embassy for about $12m. After meeting these needs related to building land and these fees, some 7 million marks remained. It is known that this land was granted to the University of Sarajevo and it is quite clear... that the rest of the money, therefore about 7 million US dollars, should be deposited at the expense of the University of Sarajevo. We have so far received answers from the Council of Ministers that this has not been done because Parliament has not made a decision, so they have proposed a home, then another home, all of it is fine. My question is that they write to me exactly: Why, by today, here for six years, seven million dollars is not paid at the expense of the University of Sarajevo from the sale of that land? So, the reasons why? I'm interested in what the Council of Ministers has to say about it." That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5917	Thank you. The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5918	Thank you. My question was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. At the beginning of this month, as we could see from the media, German Minister for Economic Co-operation and Development Dirk Nibel visited BiH. Unfortunately, there was an inadmissible bad reception here, so we had the situation that the German media had announced that it was his visit – that BiH had shown unkind interest in his visit and that Germany was one of our most important bilateral partners. I remind you that last year, BiH had the biggest exports to Germany and I wonder, "Why did no one from the Council of Ministers deign to talk to Mr Nibel?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5919	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5920	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I have one parliamentary initiative concerning the cancellation of the ad published by the Agency for the State Service on 10 August 2011 and which also earned media attention due to the great inaccuracies mentioned inside. 'According to this, the Agency for State Service announced a shameful ad on August 10th, and the ad said that the candidate should fulfil, in addition to the general conditions, that the legal consequences of his conviction for the crime of domestic violence have ceased. 12 This ad can only be understood in one way. In the Agency, i.e. for the tasks for which the Agency is calling for a competition, only men can be hired because the whole ad is addressed exclusively to male candidates and that it is preferably a domestic bully. It is known that BiH has signed a whole series of international legal acts that are determined to fight all forms of violence against women. In a country where there is and where domestic violence is evident, this ad is a disgrace to state services. That is why I ask the Agency to cancel this shameful ad because it is discriminatory, to re-speak which will be in line with the standards adopted by BiH and installed in its legislation." I must point out that not only is this my initiative, but I have also been encouraged by a number of NGOs who have turned my attention and asked me to report on this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5921	The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5922	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have one parliamentary question that I refer to the Council of Ministers: 'The interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement allows BiH to introduce temporary protection measures in the event of excessive imports. In practice so far, I am interested in how many times has BiH so far used this protection mechanism, with what effects on BiH's economy, and which institutions, or ministries, have been responsible for launching the initiative?" I'd like a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5923	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. My first parliamentary question is to ask the BiH presidency, and it says: "Is the BiH Presidency intending to carry out a review of the general directions and priorities for the implementation of BiH's foreign policy, which were established in 2003? It should not be particularly stressed that there has been a number of significant changes in both regional and global terms in the meantime, and that these principles are in some way already obsolete." The second question, for the government of the Federation of BiH: 'Did the exact media reports, statements by certain government officials, say that the financial most powerful and the most competitive public companies, and some directorates and institutions arm around a billion KMs in commercial banks at poor interest rates? What has the government done with the aim of lighting up 13 of the whole case, and how does it intend to spend some of the money belonging to the Federation of BiH? Will that money be spent on development projects and employment, or, as so far, in budget building and buying social peace? Also, please answer me which companies and institutions are concerned and which amounts are they?" The next issue is also for the Federation of BiH government. I ask this question on the initiative of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce: 'Is the Law on the municipal activities of the Unsko-San Canton in accordance with the Federal Law on Community Activities? And this specifically applies to Article 36. The law.' And a final parliamentary question for the government of the UN-Sancanton: 'Is the government taking action to reduce the number of unemployed in the UN-San canton, how does it implement, in which projects and what are the expected effects?' Please answer in writing for all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5925	The word has Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5926	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have one representative question, I hope it is worth it, because here we are eventually, if we are to the eighth month of this current calendar and budget year, and we still have no indication whether we are going to get a draft budget in the parliamentary procedure for this current and calendar and budget year. Well, I refer the issue to the constitutionally-authorized institution for budgeting, the BiH Presidency: 'Is it going to deliver the draft budget of the BiH institutions for 2011 at all during this calendar and budget year? And if that's what he means when he's going to do it, especially when it comes to the fact that the lack of budget for this current year makes it impossible to implement a part of the law and our obligations set out in BiH laws? I will single out only one concerning the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Armed Forces of BiH, which was adopted here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, anyway, the miserable funds allocated in previous years to the promotion of return through the BiH budget, and because of the situation that we have no budget, such a gesture is reduced to zero for this current year." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5927	The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5928	Dear President, honourable MPs, my question concerns VAT, value added tax. As you know, value added tax is sacred in every country, so it should be in our country. Any procedure concerning changes in value added tax must also be strictly monitored in our Parliament: by the Commission, neither do I, the Governing Council and the Agency for indirect 14 taxation, ultimately, a Parliament which can adopt an addition of the law or when it comes to the level of the rate or the reduction of the rate or return of VAT. That's exactly why my question is concrete. I can say that I was shocked when I got this information from the people on the ground and referred to a parliamentary question for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry. The parliamentary question is: 'How is it possible that the Federal Minister of Agriculture by means of a sublegal act, i.e. By means of a rule, it suspends several applicable laws, especially the VAT value added tax in such a way as to reduce the VAT base by 30% and order VAT to be calculated on the basis of 80%? As proof of my claim, you have "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH" since Wednesday, 10. 8. In 2011, where Article 25 strictly states: All fees prescribed by this Regulation have been shown without VAT value added tax where an amount of 80 %, which is not the revenue of the Federation budget and canton budget, is added value added to the value added tax. So 30% has been released." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5929	The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5930	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chaired, colleagues and colleagues, I would have two questions for the competent state and entity ministries, and it refers to the following: 'How long must the citizens of BiH wait to start using the euro as a means of payment in daily payment, since the Central Bank of BiH is also in agreement with this?' The second question: 'What are the key reasons and why is the security bonus system as it is in the RS not functioning in the Federation of BiH, what do I see as a key problem for disorder in this area?' I prepared this question for the Federation of BiH Security Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5931	Thank you. And the last reported MP, Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5932	Let me welcome everyone present. My question is to the Council of Ministers. Croatia agreed with the EU that goods of plant and animal origin from BiH are imported into two border crossings, Doljani and Gradiška. The first one is out of function, irrational, not functional; and the second one is completely devastrated. The length of the border between us and Croatia is 1.001 km, and 15 imports of the product are possible only at two border crossings, which I have listed, and on the other hand at the border of Croatia towards Slovenia and Hungary the length of the border is 860 km, and there are two border crossings for the flow of goods. With Croatia's entry into the EU, BiH will not be able to export anything but fish due to extremely rigorous food quality and safety controls, which will lose a very important market for plant and animal goods worth more than a billion euros a year in a very short time. Croatia is an important external trade partner in BiH and we do have a secure market with it. For the first six months, the information was exports of 623 million KM and imports of a billion and 280 million KM. The culprits of passivity and all that is happening are the factical authorities in BiH. BiH has no state-level infrastructure related to certification, accreditation, no "CE" marking and cannot be exported to the EU. My question is: 'Why did the BiH negotiating team allow only two border crossings to the Republic of Croatia after its entry into the EU? And the second question is, "What consequences will this have for BiH's economy exporters?" I have one more question. The second question is addressed to the Plant Protection Agency: 'The alarming state of the abundance of pollen ambrosia grains in the air during the period of polarization of this dangerous Korean allergic plant in our premises is today the most widespread weeds in many countries of Europe, both in Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia, Austria, Hungary. This is the result of an inadequate and inadequate suppression of this invasive weed species that causes allergic reactions on the airways and other organs. It is mostly found on agricultural land, along the edges of roads, in arable gardens and other surfaces. In August 2009, the government of the Federation of BiH adopted a Decision on measures to prevent the spread and destruction of ambrosia published in the Official Journal of the Federation of BiH, issue 51/09. I have no information for the RS. The question is: What is done and what does it seem at BiH level about this problem?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5933	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the second item of the agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) 16 At the 7th session of the House, held on 27. Seven. In 2011, no negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was accepted, so the proposal for a law was returned to the Commission to deliver a new opinion to the House. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 23. 8. In 2011, and this time she supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Šefik Džaferović reports for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5935	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, it is a law which is well-known to the Bosnian Herzegovina public and aims to exclude independent regulators from the system of executive authorities in which, in my opinion, they are the State Audit Office, Communications Regulatory Agency and the State Board of Appeals. The law corrects the mistake, and the Constitutional Commission, though, supported the principles. I just want to say that the law is in line with the standards applied in Europe and in the developed democratic world when it comes to institutional positioning of these bodies. So it's about regulators that can't be part of the executive government. In particular, therefore, they cannot be part of the executive government given the level of development in BiH. I call on the House to stay out of this. I think there's a little more spite here than there's supposed to be and then we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5936	Dušanka Majkić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5937	I want to repeat the attitudes we've already said. From the requirement to exempt the Office for the Audit of Institutions under this Law, we have come to push to exempt three institutions from this law, one of which this Parliament, this Council of Ministers, cannot even implement the selection procedure or a new director, or a new council. According to Mr. Džaferović, it is with European standards; it is really not with European standards that the director behaves, here, brings the end of his second term, that the Agency's Council is a second term – that we cannot choose him. And in such an unsettled situation, all we need is for no one to even be apologising to them what's called the Director, so the Council of Ministers to take away that possibility. So, in a situation like this, they just need to be given European standards that they would abuse. As much as everyone cares about getting rid of this, especially the representatives of the international community, last time I spoke about it: they have done everything undiplomatic to reinstall Mr. Huseinović in that place. I don't know which one of the MPs in the last meeting didn't have any conversations and didn't put pressure on this procedure to end. Now, that's why we won't, respecting all those others, why we won't support... the list. Nothing's changed. The election procedure at the Communications Regulatory Agency is not over. And no one intends to finish it. You should not be surprised because it is obvious that the Director of the Regulatory Agency and the Council of the Regulatory Agency will work on both the third term and who knows what 17 mandates, who cares what the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers say about it, so we will not support the proposal of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5938	The replica was reported by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5939	It is not the director of the Regulatory Agency for Communications who has not made the choice according to the competition, but those who block the process in which they want to pass what has been proposed by the Council and what has passed the adoption procedure as a solution. And, therefore, you actually create a mess when it comes to institutions. And not those who produce disorder, when it comes to the functioning of institutions, can call on it. And that's not to be mentioned at all when we talk about institutional positioning of the Communications Regulatory Agency, the State Audit Office and the Board of Appeals. It's a question that's completely separate. One is a personal question and therefore we have and we can talk about it, and the other is an institutional question. I can't get those two things together in the discussion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5940	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5941	I'm not talking about Mr. Huseinović's personality. I am talking about procedures in which we will soon have the largest number of appointed persons with expired mandates in this country. This is not the only institution, but it is obvious to many representatives of the international community and also of the local political public – it is very concerned that the situation in this institution is kept as it is and is freed from it, it is given this independence that the Council of Ministers should not confirm the place of the first man. Now, those are the reasons that suggest we shouldn't do that. The procedure must be implemented and completed. And whoever is elected, and if Mr. Huseinović is elected, it is an honor, but the third term cannot behave without the procedure being completed and implemented.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5942	Replica, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5943	Mrs. Majkić, no one here is naive. He has expired his mandate to the director of SIPA, a competition is being called, a man is being elected. Congratulations, let him be chosen. The term of office of the Director of the Border Police, competition, is chosen by man, elected. It doesn't block either one of them. The term of office of director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation expires, the term of office of the Director of RAC, and then the blockades after several years. Why do you think? You think we're naive, that we don't know why it is. That's what I'm talking about. And don't please be nice! This is a read thing. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5944	Petar Kunić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5945	...thank you, Chairman. I was also against this law for the following reasons. For example, if there is a differentiation, that is, the establishment of new agencies, and in fact here it is the separation of these agencies from the management system of the public administration body, of course it is a tendency and that I fully understand it, but it was previously necessary to form a financial basis, whether it requires the reception of new workers, which workers, i.e. subsistence officials, are moving from existing institutions to these new institutions. Because what's going on? It is reported that the establishment of such institutions is constantly increasing the number of civil servants, i.e. substitutors. And in this respect, this parliament must take its stand and have clear conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5946	There are no more applications for discussion. ... I am concluding a debate within the third item of the agenda. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers' proposal for a bill was submitted in parliamentary procedure 3.2.2011. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the principles and constitutional basis on 23.8.2011. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Šefik Džaferović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5948	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I suggest that the House of Representatives back this law in the first reading. Here is Honorable Minister Nović, he can, if he feels the need, talk about some concrete solutions, but I think this is an important law, that it contains some solutions that we have not had so far, such as the inclusion of biometric elements in the ID card, the voluntary possibility of electronic signature and the delivery of ID cards. Since it is a different system of protection, not only directly but indirectly through the power of attorney, that is, by mail, it is the delivery of newspapers in this law. 19 What has arisen as a problem in front of the Constitutional Commission and for which I have stood up to speak here today is the fact that the Law on the ID card, which was first adopted in BiH at the level of the state in 2001, has been changed several times so far. It was changed after 2001 by a decision of the High Representative, so the decision was confirmed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and then once amended by the Parliamentary Assembly's decision, and then by the High Representative's decision again. Now, the decision by the High Representative, published in Official Messenger, number 53/2007, has never been confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but... has only applied in part to several amendments concerning the crossing of the state border regarding the respect of the Dayton Peace Agreement. This was referred to by the High Representative on a provisional basis, which the Parliamentary Assembly did not confirm. The law was later amended again in 2008, although the 2007 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, imposed by the High Representative, was not adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and then asked us whether the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH could consider laws if one part of the law was amended by a decision of the High Representative, and the decision was later confirmed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. ... I think it's working here... and there's nothing controversial that Parliament can raise its hand and confirm that decision. So it's spite again, because there's really nothing controversial about it. It's even with a deadline, a certain period of validity, a provision imposed by the High Representative. But here, so we changed this law in 2008 and... I propose that we support this law in the first reading and in addition to this fact, because I think that this law, in part, is accepting those solutions from that law and, secondly, it does not touch them, so I think there is no interference, in my opinion, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH today amends this law, or supports the principles of amending the Law on the ID card. A team before, as it was also handled in 2008 in the same legal situation. I don't think there's any interference. If the OHR thinks there's a disturbance, then of course OHR will react. Because as long as the OHR doesn't react, I think we're right and we're doing the right thing. Because when they look at the Single Rules, they talk about the laws imposed by the High Representative and the only thing there is in the Unique Rules is that when Parliament confirms the law of the High Representative, there is nothing that can be changed. He has to confirm it and adopt it the way the High Representative brought it. And that's all there is to the laws of the High Representative. Now the question is legal what if it were (for me it wouldn't be disputed if we were now bringing, if it were intervention) the only ID bill that the High Representative would bring, so now we're not confirming it, changing it. That would be completely controversial. Here's one of the changes that, here, let's leave now to see if the High Representative reacts or if there's actually a need. I don't think there's any need for a reaction and we can go with this job. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5949	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5950	Thank you. Well, as far as the SDS MPs' club is concerned, we think this is a good legal solution. However, there is this dilemma Mr. Džaferović spoke of. Especially since this article 1 mentions these temporary ID cards, and... they're being treated by a law imposed by a high representative. Now the question is, how can we change and take part in that decision without adopting it here? It is not part of our legislation yet, especially if we can influence and modify these decisions of the High Representative. This confiscation, the conditions under which the ID cards are taken away, are not treated in the existing law. They are still not part of our legal system but of the imposed decisions of the High Representative. And so, as far as we're concerned, without talking about the SDS, we're really against the introduction of labelling of that population, the withdrawal of ID cards. Unfortunately,... some people were taken from their ID cards unfairly, they were out of work, they were putting up with unspeakable gimmicks to make it turn out that none of it was there. He who is called before the prosecution, nor is he who answered, nor is he ever heard, and men have been unjustly exposed for years to chicanism. I'm telling you, I know people who lost their jobs because of it. And so, as far as we're concerned, it's really a dispute for us to take away any ID cards. There are laws, there's central records, there's known how someone can prevent them from crossing the border, and so we're going to support this law with certain amendments that we're going to make afterwards. That's it, thank you. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5951	The high representative's decisions, colleagues, are part of BiH's legal system, as it is also part of an international contract containing the BiH Constitution, so part of the legal system. His decisions are laws that are respected and implemented as well as the laws adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the text of the law he declares to be a purification and purification along with the laws adopted by this assembly. So there's no difference when it comes to the power of legal acts and whether it's part of the legal system or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5952	Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5953	...related to the amendments and additions to the I.D. Act. I have reported more, not to announce that we will support it, but to ask all of us, or to remind us that in the future we will face the situation that we have a dilemma whether we can change the law that has imposed, or parts of the law imposed by the High Representative. We simply refused, or we accepted and took over a number of laws, not just the one on the ID card. At the last session, I think, we asked a question and asked for information: the exact specification of the legislation imposed by the High Representative, i.e. amending and supplementing the laws imposed by the High Representative, to decide here in Parliament what to do with it. It doesn't serve anything, nor does it lead to the non-compliance of these laws. So, definitely nothing will change, nor will any damage be done, but we'll create a clean situation and we won't come to an opportunity like we are now in a dilemma whether we can, we can't, etc. So, the last thing I'm saying is, I'm really suggesting that it would be a good idea if we didn't get into practice if we ran away from the specifics in simple changes and additions, but we went to some 21 spheres and opened up some other questions. This a propo of these spites, appointments, procedures, etc. to discuss these things on other occasions, and to focus on the laws that are ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5954	Petar Kunić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5955	I've supported this bill and I'll support it, but I can't miss it without telling this next finding. In fact, no high representative ever had the right to pass laws. He had the right to make decisions, and decisions by nature and character are something else. Those aren't laws. If you carefully study the Bonaan Declaration, all declarations, the Dayton Agreement, you will see that the High Representative has no right to pass laws. It's only left for the Assembly. He can make temporary decisions that he is obliged to put on the Bureau's agenda as soon as possible, or the Council of Ministers. There's no record of the Parliamentary Assembly anywhere. Therefore, you can get away with never having the authority to pass laws. Well, please, at the time of Austro-Hungarian, there was a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's governance where protector Benjamin Kalaj made decisions under that law. Imagine how many years later that a free democratic Europe should give powers to such a high representative in BiH. That was fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5956	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5957	Dude, that wasn't fiction. It was a reality in BiH. No one would have brought it if the situation in BiH hadn't been such if it hadn't proved necessary, as necessary. So let's not blame the world that wants to help us, but blame those in BiH who cause problems, which are why the democratic world should react. That's the point. It's a replacement thesis and it's fiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5958	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5959	... in BiH, I'm talking about legal issues. [[microphone is not enabled]] So the formally-legal high representative had no right to pass laws. Ešdaun, who passed the largest number of laws, to my question in this parliament -- on which he makes laws for BiH -- skipped the issue, a wise politician and skipped the issue, did not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5960	Zijad Jagodić applied for the discussion, and I remind, therefore, that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of BiH citizens is on the agenda. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5961	I would ask for only one clarification – however, I will definitely support the law, but I am interested in something for our citizens – will these amendments to the Law on the ID card continue to be harassed by our citizens regarding the resolution of their personal obligations, businesses, meaning by local public administration? Whether or not they will still have to carry the CIPS certificates with them, etc.? Will these changes, I couldn't see that happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5962	The word has the minister of civil affairs, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5963	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I would like first of all to welcome you and especially in this new assembly and to wish this House a successful work. For a specific question, I would give a concrete answer. One of the key issues of amending and supplementing this law is that the new ID card is built in biometric data, and that means the same data that are embedded in our travel documents, and that means that, at the same time, citizens should also be free from walking, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that they can finally come and apply for a personal ticket to the competent internal affairs authority to carry out officially everything that they need with their home offices and thus enter into their ID cards, as provided for. So, identical to the travel document that you're using today. Let me just say that it's extremely important that we, in this ID card, also want to introduce the electronic memory elements to be used, of course, by citizens, and who can also use it with a personal card, not have an electronic signature on a special map and use two documents. We think it is a good approach, that it is also a European approach, but we will not force citizens to do so, but it is the sole wish of every citizen who will plead when applied. It is also very important to specify in which cases a copy of the new law can be sought, for which purposes, because we have witnessed that indeed with data from the ID card to a significant extent and has been misused and manipulated by many organs. I also think it is very important that BiH citizens can definitely get IDs through the mail. And that means that only once he comes into the competent authority, applicates, fills everything he needs and says I want this I.D. delivered to me through the mail. It's an extremely shorting and saving money, but it's also cutting time for our citizens to walk. I think it is also very important that the publication of lost and stolen ID cards will be on the Agency's website for Identification Documents, which is on the level of BiH, and in one place it will be published, and not as it is today to be published in every canton, in every entity, and you do not know in Bihaq whether someone who is looking for a ID card might have already published in Mostar or in another canton. We think it's very important. 23 And of course, another of not so important but for the citizens is important, no matter what the amount, which will be further released from paying any issue fees and exchange of ID cards. Of course, the price of the ID card will determine the Council of Ministers according to everything that comes. Why is this law important to us, and why did we expect it much earlier? It is important to us for the reason that somewhere in mid-2012 we definitely highlight all our contracts on the purchase of existing ID cards and, if we don't change all these elements now, we would have to enter the stage of the purchase of new ID cards, and that means the existing ones. And if we were to amend this law in two or three months, we wouldn't be in a position to technically do everything we need to do until the end of the tender itself, and that would basically mean throwing new 5-6 million around ID cards. ID cards will be substitutively replaced, so not in mass the same hour but as they point out, and we expect in the second half of 2012 and no later than 1 January 2013 to have new ID cards with all these elements be in circulation in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5964	Thank you to Honoring Minister Nović. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the fourth item of the agenda. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics At the 7th session of the House, held on 27. Seven. In 2011, the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics was not accepted, so the proposal for a law was returned to the Joint Commission to deliver a new opinion. The Joint Commission re-delivered a negative opinion on 24.8.2011. I'm opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Commission. Šefik Džaferović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5966	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I will not repeat my discussion since last time, I will only use the presence of Minister Nović here. I'm staying with all the reasons I don't think this law should be passed, which I spoke of in detail last time. And when I add them all together and I want to draw a conclusion which is why I don't need to pass this law, my impression when I look at the provisions of this law, especially Article 12, a member who refers to Article 38. The law is – whether consciously, whether unconsciously, I do not know it, but this is my impression – that it makes it difficult for BiH to gain citizenship for people who eventually lose their citizenship of BiH because they took citizenship from other countries and BiH did not conclude with those countries a double citizenship contract, 24 on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship to persons who came to BiH from the countries of the former Yugoslavia and settled in BiH. That's my impression. I'm not going to make any conclusions. I wish I was wrong. And it's actually a thing that prevents me from upholding the principles of this law. We can talk about the details. And the other thing, we don't get the capital issue, we stick our head in the sand: Article 17. - I'm sorry.? On 1 January 2013, several hundred thousand BiH citizens, because they were expelled from BiH and because they were forced to take the citizenship of other states to solve their life issues, means they lost their citizenship of BiH because BiH, not those, but BiH, the state, did not conclude with those countries a double citizenship contract. And that question is not treated at all. I propose that this law be withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure and that we sit down and that we pay attention to citizenship in the right way, including this issue concerning Articles 17 and 1 January 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5967	No more reports. I'm closing the fifth item of the agenda. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, Proposer: BiH Presidency On the basis of Article 7(1) of indent 5. BiH Intelligence and Security Agency Act, BiH presidency is 21. 3. In 2011, they delivered to the House the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform for adoption. The joint commission to monitor the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency is 27. Seven. In 2011, she delivered an opinion on the Annual Platform. The Joint Commission has supported the Annual Platform and is proposing to the House to adopt it. It also proposes to the House and the adoption of the following conclusion: 'We call on the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to deliver within the legal deadline a platform on the Security and Security Policy of BiH for 2012 and to set out their representatives who will attend the session of the Commission on which this platform will be discussed.' I'm opening a debate. A fellow Đugum, is it? The word is from Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5969	Thank you, Chairman. I would say briefly that the Annual Platform on the Joint Commission has been unanimously accepted and that it has been expressed precisely this dissuasion of the members of the Joint Commission, and with a view to 25 earlier work documentation that an absolute rapporteur on this point has not responded so far to the meetings of the Joint Commission, so that the Joint Commission has gone to that end to make it compulsory for the rapporteur to send its representatives to a meeting of the Joint Commission on the Platform, because this would be necessary for the adoption and acceptance of this platform. Secondly, to bring the Platform within a legal deadline, as it has usually been delayed until now, and this has been delivered now in the third month, regardless of whether the Commission has not been formed by the 6th month, but it is still late for some five months to be sent to the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. to the Commission for consideration, so that these Commission conclusions are adopted and to be delivered within the legal period by the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and to be irrevocably appointed by a person who will be present for the debate in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5970	Thank you. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding a debate within this agenda point. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. BiH Council of Ministers' 2010 Work Report The BiH Council of Ministers is 18. 3. 2011 submitted the Work Report. The Commissions of the House and the Joint Commissions of both homes delivered their opinions on this report with the conclusions adopted. Negative Opinion on the Council of Ministers' Work Report was given by the Foreign Affairs Commission, the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. I'm opening a debate on the report, but before I do, I'm asking if anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers would like to make any opening remarks. The chairman's not here. Here you go, Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvonimir Kutleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5972	Thank you very much. Honorable President, esteemed MPs, I'm behind this pay phone for the first time, so you'll forgive me if I have any kind of nervousness that might make me feel uncomfortable. But here, just to say that the chairman has given me the authority to speak in principle about the Council of Ministers' report, and there are ministers who, for certain areas, cover, can answer questions about the most important activities and conditions in the area for which the relevant ministry was established. I just want to start by saying that we have a round-up system and planning and reporting on the work of the Council of Ministers. Since three years ago, we have a guideline on the development of the Council of Ministers' work programme, 26 and two years ago, we have also a guide on a methodology that prescribes how to prepare work reports, how to produce reports on the work of the Council of Ministers. And, as you know, the MPs from the earlier assembly know that we already have a third year in a row of work of the Council of Ministers, and for the second time we have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers according to methodology. That methodology is and, I may say, commended. We worked in cooperation with the international community, i.e. more precisely with the administration of the Government of Slovenia and the Government of France, and we also have a lot of praise on how to prepare and on the manual for preparing work reports from other international organisations. That's what I'm saying, and that's what I'm behind. Strange how the Council of Ministers worked. This is based on this report, and a realistic picture of how the Council of Ministers worked, i.e. how it worked during the reporting period, can certainly be obtained, i.e. in the previous year. And that's the good side of the Labour Report, and what an assessment of the Council of Ministers' work will be, that's another thing. As you have seen, I will not, of course, read the report on the work but it has its own opening part, and that introductory part has been done in the office of the chairman. You saw that all the activities in the previous year were subdued, in fact they were subject to two strategic goals, which is full EU membership and full membership in the NATO alliance. Of course, there are also numerous and most important activities marked by the work of the Council of Ministers in 2010... and there should be priorities for next year, i.e. This year, however, because of the situation, because the previous Council of Ministers is, or currently, at the end of the term of office, we do not have it this time. This report contains the most important activities and conditions in each area. I stress the most important activities, because in addition to what is mentioned in the Council of Ministers' report on the work, there are a number and a lot of what the ministries and administrative organisations have been doing, but it is not logically stated because this report would not be on 120 plus contributions, 100 pages, 220, but it would be perhaps 1,220 pages. Therefore, this should be considered, so these are only the most important activities and assessments of the situation... The methodology is such that legislative activities, which are also the conduct of negotiations, have been particularly demonstrated, are the conclusion of international contracts. As you could see, there was activity quite large and the jobs were done, I think, and beyond what was expected. We also appreciated that the processes of European integration, planned and implemented programming tasks should be particularly demonstrated. Finally, we have a contribution in which it is spoken precisely without any beauty, hairstyle, what was planned for 2010 through the Council of Ministers' work programme, and what was realized. And those data must have been presented in this report without any haircut. Also, unlike earlier years, we have one chapter of Budgetary Assets. So how much budget spending has been spent, planned and spent on carrying out these activities contained in the Council of Ministers' report on work. Of course, this percentage of 61% of the realization might have been significantly higher if some of the activities that were not being realized were actually carried out, in fact for which there are objective reasons why they are not realised. Often, there is no agreement in these working groups that are formed to produce different acts, draft laws, etc. Often... some activities have not been carried out because there has been no consensus on the views of the European Commission and the like. So, if this report were added to all the activities that were carried out and not presented in this report, because they were not even planned, and the activities that were not realised for objective reasons – this percentage would not be 61% but at some free estimate that percentage would be about 75%. 27 I, of course, cannot give an assessment of the state of the area and talk about work and state in certain areas, there are ministers who will certainly be able to give quality answers to your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5973	Thank you. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5974	So, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would first ask representatives of the SDA Club to allow the session to be held normally because it makes no sense; if we don't care, then we can go out, but there's no point in disabling the session's work. So this is a document that should be conducted with a very intense debate. Last year, that is, for 2009, Parliament first adopted a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, and I think we missed it by what Bog let us get rid of it as soon as possible. We thought it was the first study. The methodology for making reports on the work of the Council of Ministers, which has not been done so far, is that this is the first learning and first steps, and that the next report will certainly be better. This has taken revenge on us today, and today we have a methodologically one disastrous report. The first dilemma I present to you is just a methodology manual. The manual says that the report on the work of the Council of Ministers should contain the most important activities and results achieved during the report period on the assessment of the situation in the areas of the Council of Ministers' section, i.e. the ministries, independent administrative organisations and bodies of the Council of Ministers. And then I took a look at what this report contains and saw: according to the Budget Law, the BiH institutions for 2010 were registered 71 institutions. The two institutions had no business activities, they just figure out, it was the Commission for Asset Requirements and the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, so that's 69. Of these 69 institutions, all those institutions for which the Council of Ministers is not in charge could be excluded, which are the institutions of the judiciary, the institutions of the Office of Audit, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Presidency, the Advocates' Office, the Central Election Commission, the Office for the Review of Appeals, and almost everything else (I may have missed some others), all others are related to this report on the work of the Council of Ministers. However, when I took this book, this large report, according to the secretary-general, contains nine ministries, seven security institutions, 22 administrative organisations, two directorates, which makes almost 20 BiH institutions missing. I will only list some of those who are missing and who have had to be here because they have a large budget and have a large number of employees: Civil Aviation Directorate, which has almost 7 million budgets and employs 79 workers; Personal Data Protection Agency; Archive Banja Luka; Mine Action Centre which has 8 million budgets and employs 187 workers; Institute of Meteorology – 45 employees; Institute of Missing Persons; Office of Public Administration Reform Coordinators established at the Council of Ministers' Office but which has a budget of 10 million and has 22%. Wasn't it interesting to see why this institution had only 22% execution? Commission for concessions which have not issued any licence; Veterinary Office. Imagine, the Veterinary Office which had a budget of 7 million and employed... and has no report from the Council of Ministers; the Plant Protection Administration, and then those who certainly had to be such as the Office for Joint Affairs, the Committee of State Service for Appeals, the 28 work of the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, the Office for Law, the Committee for the Conservation of Monuments, etc. I think this is really inadmissible that there are so many institutions that could be seen what the Council of Ministers was really like in 2010. Now, when you take this big book, the first part contains the introduction, the introduction to 3.5 pages, it's actually the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, and then the separatized parts. These are parts containing individual booths of ministries and other institutions that are covered. How was the manual actually supposed to work? That's more interesting how the manual should be done. First, if there was an interest in doing this report properly, it was necessary to look at the government's websites, it should not go far, the government of neighbouring countries. But that wasn't supposed to go either, you should have looked at how the entity government's work report worked. You have a very transparent, selective, so they didn't make them join the ministry's report, but they analyzed their work through the work of the ministries. So now, what was the commitment? Article 8. The instructions issued by the 2009 Council of Ministers say the cabinet of the chairman's council of ministers is in charge of drawing up an introductory part of the work report. I guess that's 3.5 pages. It doesn't seem to me that it was done by the cabinet of the chairman's council of ministers. The second part is under b), to define it, refers to ministries, independent administrative organisations and individual bodies of the Council of Ministers for the construction of individual reports on state activities in their area of work. Nor can it be concluded that all institutions are covered, nor can this report reflect the poor work of individual institutions. As the methodology shows, all the institutions were doing well, because everyone had European integration, they all had legislative... something that didn't finish a little bit they did something that wasn't in the plan so they moved. So the Council of Ministers was supposed to coordinate the activities of drawing up a pool of reports, and it was obvious that those three parts had fallen to one letter, that virtually everything remained to the General Secretariat who had to do all those three parts, and that's why this report is the way it is. I don't think it's done right. We have two options. We see that some of the reports have received a negative opinion from the Commission. A negative report by the Commission states that a report on the work of the Council of Ministers has fallen. We have two options: in the technical mandate of the Council of Ministers to return this to be done as it should be at the cost of being in two months, but to finally send to this Parliament a report which Parliament deserves. Because we have to have a little dignity for ourselves. We can't let that happen, because this is a humiliation to have a report like this. So I haven't said one more word about the work of the institutions. I'm talking about what this report looks like. There is nothing to be judged by, just to remind you that until this moment until we raise our hands, the report is on the soul of the Council of Ministers. The moment this parliament raises its hand, it is our property and we are responsible for it. So we have the opportunity to make a decision. I suggest that in 2011, i.e. next year, the same report does not happen, that we return this one, that we force the Council of Ministers to make a report as it should... be a report on the work of the Council of Ministers and that we lead this debate afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5975	Replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5976	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll just remind you that there is a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2010, not on the methodology of the report or the preparation of reports, etc. So the discussion that preceded my intervention was mostly referred to the methodological framework of the report and we do not, of course, have any instructions here or previously established views. When it comes to the 2010 Council of Ministers' work report itself, my intervention is more about the absence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. If we are talking about the Council of Ministers' work report, it would be perfectly logical for us to lead the debate here in the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This is not a joint set of individual reports, where individual ministers or representatives of the ministries can possibly answer some questions. And in that sense, I think it would be logical for the College to provide for the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. My intervention and the next is what it means to return this report, or eventually, what does it mean not to adopt this report?! ... In normal states, whether when no government work report is adopted, the government resigns. What if the Council of Ministers resigns in our technical mandate, what do we do? So let's just think about a series of issues that may be more likely to serve as a basis for future discussions on future reports from future councils of ministers. But what's key, so we have this report, which is about work, not methodology. And secondly, I appreciate the need for the presence of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5977	Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5978	I just want to say if it doesn't matter what 20 institutions were dropped that were supposed to be in this report and, if that's a procedural error, then I don't really know what the report on the work of the Council of Ministers is. Is it possible... to adopt this report or not to adopt that there are no 20 institutions set up by the Council of Ministers and to which the report is submitted? So what I'm talking about is the very essence of the report itself. And if we don't adopt him, or if we adopt him, we'll have the same one next year, the same one. So I thought it was a solution, no matter what it was a technical mandate and what it was an obligation to end something. The fact that... in the technical mandate until there are others, I guess those who are the main brake to establish the Council of Ministers will take care of it, but I really think that the lack of 20 institutions – so it is called irresponsibility forgets the 20 institutions that we have established and that work with such a budget!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5979	Another replica, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5980	This is exactly what Mrs. Majkić is talking about, however, the lack of 20 and some institutions, she says, and what she says is irresponsible, point to the need for the presence of the chairman of the 30 Council of Ministers. I think Mr Špirić would probably answer the question why 20 and several institutions are missing from this report and what irresponsibility it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5981	Okay. After these critical tones, the first MP from the opposition, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, appeared to us after these critical tones from the ruling parties who elected this Council of Ministers and supported it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5982	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. A report on someone's work can be measured by the results of the body's work. The work of the Council of Ministers cannot be seen separately, as the Council of Ministers' hard work depended on the parliamentary majority chosen by the Council and its effectiveness in the adoption of the law. And the results that the parliamentary majority had, or the Council of Ministers, are that the country of BiH is the highest unemployment rate in Europe, 43% of official statistics or 27.2% of the labour poll. Estimates suggest that around 3.85 million people live in BiH. So we don't even have a census and the Council of Ministers is not wrong. So it's the parliamentary majority's fault, and it is, it depends on how many residents we have and what the population is doing. So it is estimated that in BiH out of the 3,85 million people, the 2010 labour force poll says that there were 2.6 million working people. Of this number, about 1.4 million or 55.4% of the population were inactive. And the inactive population, it is said, are persons up to the age of 15 and persons of employment who are not declared or employed, or who are unemployed, while the working population is made up of employees and unemployed persons who are actively seeking a job. After the 2010 Labour Force survey, BiH had 842,000 persons employed and 315,110 unemployed. And official statistics say we have 688,944 employees and 522,080 unemployed people. The structure of the employees was 19.7% in agriculture, not agriculture 31% and service activities 49.3%. So we're becoming less and less like a country of entrepreneurship and work ethics. Entrepreneurs are usually either suckers who quickly fail or tycoons and hateful policy favorites that provide them with jobs, status and influence beyond an objective competition. We can't learn, we can't work. We're ready to take, and we don't give anything. So, foreign exchange indicators say: in the last year, in 2010, in 2010, we had a trade deficit of 6.000,520,699. So, last year alone, our BiH poored 6.5 billion KM. Indeed, since two decades of independence, there has been no minimum political consensus among the leading political parties as we wish, and BiH's main problems have not been solved. More specifically, most of them become more serious and dangerous from day to day. There is no power to bring a democratic constitution, because these current violations of fundamental human rights, and the international community in BiH has influence over the High Representative and we practically have a protectorate. One of BiH's main problems lies precisely that we cannot make a step forward, that we are doomed to crochet in the mud of undeveloped and corrupt Balkan pubs, in the tycoon and crime tycoon tycoon tycoon, in the negative balance payments, in the growing responsibilities, in the lack of natural resources and low growth rates, that our destiny is to become servants of world capital, toys of the interest of the powers and that we will always be hostages of the incompetent politicians and that we can never become California of Europe. 31 My involvement in politics? I think that my candidacy for the Council of Ministers has given me the right to discuss this and ask for support, because in you all, we know that this Council of Ministers has a technical mandate and if we do not adopt the Council of Ministers' report, as Mrs Azra said, the government should resign. The famous aphorism says, "If you don't know where you're going, you'll be there every time." Simply put, success is built on a clear strategy and on a capable leadership. It is not difficult to agree with the assessment that BiH had neither of its independence in 20 years. Despite a few partial studies and a proposal, no government has yet drawn up a higher strategy for long-term development. Instead, politicians have been filling our heads for decades with ideas that joining NATO and the EU is our only strategy. Approaching NATO and united Europe is just a means that can make us faster or slower, more quality or less successful, lead to the goals that we have submitted. We can enter Europe as an undeveloped Kosovo, and we can enter as developed Finland. A clear strategy, apart from development, has a psychological task for BiH. We are a land burdened by an unfinished past. Instead of the rearview mirror, we need to get into our hands to take a long-range view. We may not think alike about the past, but it must fall into another plan. The first plan is the time ahead, our future. It is made up of common goals that we will set and fight for. It is potentially brilliant and victorious for every BiH resident, while the past can fight forever. So, key to the work of the Council of Ministers is the very poor conduct of BiH's economic policies. The key four economic policies are in the hands of this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, which are fiscal, monetary and foreign trade. So, poorly guided by these policies, by changing the direction of these policies, we can fix this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5983	The word has been respected by Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5984	So here's how I'm going to try to make my point, or our position, when it comes to this report, so instead of having an annual report from the newly elected Council of Ministers today, because it's been a haman of a year, whether, as people have won the elections, or in the worst version that we have the first 100 days, we are now discussing the annual Council of Ministers' 2010 report. In 2010 – and this is also very important for me – it was an election year and, if you remember, before the election, signals were sent to the Council of Ministers not to take any action, elections go, new political forces will come, etc. So I think the bottom line is the next one. Let the Council of Ministers finally be established. An assessment of the work of the Council of Ministers... (this report we are talking about today) was given in October by voters. 80% of political entities are able to rebuild the Council of Ministers. So the debate on this report absolutely brings nothing. In my view, the key problem is the failure of the Council of Ministers, the unimplementation of election results. These people have nothing to do, they have to do this job, they've interpreted it technically, untechnically, and thanks to them, we've practically had something to do, even though we don't have a parliamentary majority. And a little bit of what people were delivering to us, here we seem to have spent. And so, in my opinion, the key problem is the establishment of the Council of Ministers. All of this is a waste of time. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5985	I remind you, the point we all voted for today is the Council of Ministers' 2010 report. The word has an MP, Mirza Kušljugić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5986	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I first have an obligation to read the Commission's Opinion on the work of the BiH Foreign Ministry in the framework of the Council of Ministers' Report, and then I would also discuss the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry's report afterwards. Therefore, the Foreign Affairs Commission considered the Foreign Ministry Report. I must point out that there were also ministers and four assistants at the Commission's meeting and that, at the same time, all of us, as members of this committee, received several letters from the Deputy Minister, which pointed to things that I assume are familiar with this House because it has been discussed several times. After the discussion, the Commission sought to make its contribution to making this ministry work better in the future. And when the vote and the debate was held with one vote "yes", two votes "against" and four "abstained" votes were voiced negatively on the Foreign Ministry's opinion. In order to make it possible for the foreign ministry to work better in the future, we agreed together, and we launched an initiative that we sent to the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers to speed up the adoption of the law on foreign affairs of BiH, because without that law, it is very difficult to work. And any process of approaching the EU will require significant restructuring of the ministry's organisational structure. We also addressed the initiative to define BiH's foreign strategy as soon as possible, something was talking about it today, it is not a strategy, these are the basics. Because only on the basis of such clear... documents can or could be properly discussed and assessed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There were some other initiatives on the Commission, which the Commission considered not appropriate to this session, including the establishment of a survey committee that would look at the organisation and way of functioning of the Foreign Ministry, where the Commission had determined that it would request written information from the Ministry and that it would first consider the situation without now forming a new... authority. As for the comments concerning the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, my discussion focuses on two to three sentences in the report concerning the energy sector. In fact, the whole story about the organisation of the energy sector or the state-level energy sector was eventually reduced to five or six people working in the sector. The latest report by the European Commission on BiH's progress in the EU's stabilisation and approximation process also noted that it is necessary to strengthen the part of the ministry with the capacity to do so, namely, propose the formation of a sector that would have three departments. That is why, among other things, in the last session and in the discussion, I launched an initiative to obtain an initial analysis of the fulfilment of the commitments we made by signing international agreements, which this commission (to which it was addressed) unanimously supported yesterday. And I hope that – at least on the legal side, where we are as parliament, the state parliament is the most responsible – we will be able to create conditions for investment in this economic branch, which is said to have great potential for development in BiH. One of the reasons why 33 investments in the sector so far is that there is no situation among others where 90% of the legal regulations and agencies that were to be formed are at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5987	Thank you. The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5988	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, so here, let me just say a few words. First of all, the Secretary-General spoke of the way in which the reports were reported and of the praises addressed by international factors. True, I don't mind, and I like it when things like that happen, but from the report that's been offered, then we can't come up with any knowledge that's been done. But... by following the developments and the results of the work of certain ministries you can also evaluate through their daily reports on their activities and finally to see where BiH is located economically, what is the situation in the area of job creation, and there should all be exit parameters with which the Council of Ministers, i.e. certain resolution ministries should point out in more detail in their reports. So I know that the data - as previously spoken by colleagues - is growing, the number of employees is decreasing, the unemployment rate is 43% in BiH. And the Foreign Ministry's report says 'economic diplomacy is taking a significant place in its activities', so it would be good if they probably did some shifts and steps, but it would be good if we knew who they are and what they are. How many employers have been brought to these areas, how much help it has been, and I believe that it has been, how much help it has been for our business people who are going to the world, how much information is given and whether our ministries and our embassies are at our service to our business people who are walking and looking for jobs around the world, or whether they are looking for partners or looking for the placement of their goods. It can't just blame someone who heads the ministry, it's probably also a certain found state of personnel, well, not underestimating people who go there, but it's at least the ones who have dealt with the economy so they can talk to partners who might attract them, but they're not unequivocal that they can't bring the prospectus and data on the economy in BiH to give their partners a better explanation and invite them here. Much richer countries that come here to these places, their ambassadors in such small places, through talks with the mayors of the municipality of economy, have always sought work for their firms. And in every way, they try to present their country and interest to place some of their products in this space. Although this is not a particularly large space, but an extremely attractive, extremely different economy can develop – from the processing of wood, tourism, food production, with so many sunny days. It's funny that we're importing so much stuff and we can make it all in these places. And so I think that our representations, our diplomacy abroad, should take a lot more into account, because the mass of activities that were once meant to be done by diplomatic representations, they don't have any obligations right now, we don't have any special needs, and in the first place, the economy, and in that direction, we should kind of commit ourselves to these very jobs and train our diplomatic representations, our embassies to be able and at any time to know what potential we have and what it would be relevant to do on our premises. And by the way, 34 provide us with feedback so that we can present to our employers, i.e. citizens of BiH, who are interested in opening new jobs for business, etc. Since, if I were to talk about all the ministries, then it would really take a lot of time, I think that a good number of ministries have done their job in a good way, and I will especially point out that it has done it correctly by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, because it has done it with 100% through its legislative activity, then in sublaws with 90 and some percent, in international contracts 73%, etc. and I think it's one of the ministries that handles matters in a good way. There are other ministries, but not to point them out here, which are also at a high percentage, but I looked back at the Foreign Ministry most because I believe that in representative offices, in embassies and diplomacy we could do much more on the economic plan. And the report as a report is not difficult to write, in it things can be presented in a completely different way, but the results, growth of production, employment, increasing the terms of the economy, bringing foreign capital, investments, should be the results of both the Council of Ministers and this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5989	The word was made by Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5990	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered the word for the reason that in this report that we got I noticed a few things, of course things I can't help but pay attention to, not to comment, although of course in a material that over 200 pages would have a lot to say, there would be a lot to comment on. But of course from this time distance when 11 months after the election, which we had last year, the question arises whether it is worth having some debate about this report when we know very well that the Council of Ministers, whose report we are considering today, has expired every term after the October elections. And as counterpart Belkić said, it is fortunate that today we are having a debate on the first 100 days of the new Council of Ministers, not to talk about this report by the Council of Ministers, to which the mandate expired. But of course, what's there is, we're in a position to discuss it. I want to say next. So the general impression is that... The Council of Ministers in the previous meeting failed to achieve the result we thought would achieve in January when it was established and failed to achieve the results that BiH citizens and the public expected to do. It's finally seen here on page 5 where it's numbered numerically, so what's planned, how much is done. And percent if you're looking at it is somewhere 25% of the activity of what was planned or wanted to be done. Today it can be realized that it is only done. So the effectiveness of this Council of Ministers is very questionable. Of course, what's the message of all this? The message is that if there is anything to be learned and taught from this, some new council of ministers, which says, learns from other people's mistakes, not from their mistakes, and makes sure it doesn't. A number of activities are listed here and among other strategies, action plans that were adopted and everything the Council of Ministers took part in or started. And of course, we do not argue that it was done partially or to the extent that it could have been done. And, of course, I would like to say that for everything that the Council of Ministers has not done, there are objective reasons to do, and that 35 Council of Ministers as an executive authority in BiH cannot be separate and separate from the situation in Parliament and the overall political situation in BiH, which, as we know, is very complex and complicated, so it also had a reflection on the work of this institution. But in general terms, what I resent especially to the Council of Ministers - and I believe that it would be of particular importance for the economic environment in BiH - is a matter that we never got feedback on whether or not something had started, and this report shows that nothing had been done: so in the summer of 2008 when we adopted the CEFTA Agreement then the Parliament's co-operation reached a conclusion and made it mandatory for the Council of Ministers to adopt a programme of protection of domestic production within 60 days and that the programme of these measures should be presented to Parliament. This has never happened, and I think that BiH's economic environment has suffered a lot because of it and, after all, we have a great dissatisfaction with business and large and small entities in this country. And I think that this programme was done and that it was adopted, as Croatia and Serbia did, in order to, to some extent, if it did not completely prevent it then mitigated certain negative flows that happened because we had to accept the CEFTA Agreement and what was going on as it was. As for the ministries, therefore, there are ministries that have done their job well, and there are ministries that can be brought forward today's observations. For example, I am amazed at the fact that in activities concerning the prevention of crime and terrorism in BiH, of the total planned three activities carried out by two. When I read this, I was wondering if someone had made a mistake, if it wasn't a printing mistake, so it was made there, just so you don't believe, it means. And when you look at the report of international organisations, then BiH is high on a scale that does not prevent organised crime and other types of corruption as well. So it's simply unthinkable that in 2010, only three activities were planned on that plan, in that field, and only two were realised. What I would like to say more about the work of individual ministries, I would especially refer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think... that this ministry has been expected to do much and today we have very, very limited results in the situation where both Parliament and all BiH institutions and the general public of this country are expected to speed up their activities on Euro-Atlantic integration and to gain their intensity. Of course, the Foreign Ministry wrote here and said that they were involved, and not to argue that they were, they were one link in the chain that was inevitable and that could not be avoided, but all the other activities we expected from that ministry were not implemented, not done. And the evidence of dissatisfaction with the ministry's work and the minister himself is that in the previous session of this parliament, an initiative to recall the foreign minister was launched on two or three occasions. I know of at least two, and maybe there was another one I don't remember. What we expected from the foreign ministry is to make order in the BiH diplomatic-consular network. I accept that the current minister has found a very messy situation in the area, but I also responsibly claim that nothing has done to make things better and to get better. About this economic diplomacy, it's unnecessary to talk, because it wasn't even there. Nothing has happened in the plan for these diplomatic and consular institutions around the world to contribute at least to a better political image of BiH than it has today. Unfortunately, we have a situation that in certain embassies and consulates, not to have ambassadors and diplomats, we have a real scandal of BiH's public dealings with and the newspapers, without the minister doing anything to call these ambassadors off and bring them to account for what they're doing. On the other hand, we have ambassadors and diplomats who do not carry out a diplomatic mission abroad in destinations where they are located but act as political lobbyists for the articulation of policies of certain Federation parties and consider it a priority for them to articulate the party's policy that has run them to those 36 positions. So there's nothing done and we have very, very negative results on that plan. E, about economic diplomacy that we don't even talk. And finally, so these institutions that are numbered here, which are being subdued within the Council of Ministers, when you read this report, some of them simply say: Bog regrets the money spent on the work of these institutions. And I'm just going to say that all those who advocate and who would like some other institutions to be established and placed at BiH level should, on the basis of this report, imagine and analyze well the work of those we already have. So we have an institution that is completely useless and doesn't give results... which is why they're founded. For example, it's the office of appeal, and of course there are still quite a few. That would be my main observations regarding this report. I think that, with good will and of course, the engagement of all of us who influence this, Parliament who elects the Council of Ministers and, of course, the House of Ministers to submit a report, to file an account and, ultimately, to respond, because we vote for them and we choose them, and should, on the basis of all that, that some new council of ministers should make an effort to make sure that all of these things, which we note today, are overcome in some new council of ministers if possible. But as things stand and the political situation in BiH stands, it seems we also have those who do not want to contribute or block things from happening at all. Of course, I would like, as an MP who is likely to be in a position to vote for the new Council of Ministers' meeting, to have a changed situation with regard to the presence of the Ministers of Parlamanta, which unfortunately was not a situation at a large number of our meetings when we didn't sometimes have any representatives of the Council of Ministers at our sittings, so we didn't have anyone to say anything that we noticed and, let me say, and considered in our walk as... negative phenomena. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5991	The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5992	Ladies and gentlemen, I belong to a group of MPs who feel that it is not very intelligent to spend too much time on a rather unserious document which, among other things, does not contain what he himself has prescribed as a methodology, as Mrs Majkić said, for reporting this parliament. I am more of a proponent of sending a clear, fierce message to this House that we will behave in the future to all those who report to this House. I would, of course, have a lot of opportunities to talk about a report that has 200 pages and some pages but, behold, it does not come to mind, but I would like to make a contribution that can be made to the following conclusions: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative's House returns the BiH Council of Ministers' report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2010, because it does not correspond to the Methodology for drawing up annual work reports and does not contain a large number of work reports. It is irresponsible that the debate on the work of the Council of Ministers is not present with the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Another conclusion that I would suggest relates to: It is binding on the chairman of the Council of Ministers to deliver a new report on the work of the Council of Ministers, prepared by his own Methodology for 37 annual reports, and that the chairman of the Council of Ministers submits exposés on the work of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5993	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5994	It's kind of pointless for me to talk about the Council of Ministers to leave, and I'm saying this was the worst council meeting of ministers in the post-day period. It seems to me that we've all become opposition and that they've lost, most today they don't. ...there's one thing I'm only going to look back on, because I'm asked by my fellow citizens who feel affected by the Human Rights Department's report. In this report, Bratunac Municipality is accused of obstruction of return. I will tell you that since the beginning of this year, Minister Halilović has been in our municipality three times, that during his second visit, and has always been happily seen there, said Bratunac is one of the municipalities most efficient in implementing projects to rebuild houses and infrastructure in co-operation with the Human Rights Ministry. I am truly grateful to the Ministry of Human Rights, which has invested one of our municipal budgets in reconstruction and infrastructure over the past three years. But I can't understand that Minister Halilović in this report, I don't know if he read it, accused his party colleagues of obstructing their return. Namely, in the Municipality of Bratunac SDS, i.e. We only have a chief and no more resistor. The president of the Assembly comes from the Party for BiH, part of the assembly's majority as deputy chief (Mr Bećirović, not funny) comes from the SDP. And I can tell you that we have great co-operation and that, even after the next elections, we will keep both of them, and that is why I am asking Minister Halilović really not to unfairly accuse people, nor the Party for BiH, nor the SDP to obstruct the return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5995	Thank you. We're going back to the Council of Ministers' work report. The word has Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5996	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I am pleased to always discuss the effects and inactions of the Council of Ministers, and I am particularly pleased to discuss this institution as if it were the true government of a truly regulated state. And then it's really nice to listen to what we expect from that government that's not even a 'V' from the government, and it's not their fault that they're not even 'V' from the government, but only the VM, the Council of Ministers who have no jurisdiction over either of these areas that you attacked them for, mostly, is that. Employment, is it, work and social policy, industry, energy, mining, agriculture, water, forestry, trade, tourism, catering, crafts and entrepreneurship, etc., what is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers? I don't need the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell me it's nothing. I understand a man who has not come, because being at the head of the Council of Ministers, being part of the Council of 38 ministers in such a constitutional and political environment is indeed worth every praise or wonder, most easily put. Accepting that you're responsible for everything and everything, and that you're not in charge of anything, is really worth every commendation, not to say any uglier word, and courage, etc. Here I am looking at the Minister of Security, we've talked here many times about expectations in the area of security, etc., so I'll remind him that I've said very often, I'm sorry that outside of this building there's not much to ask in the security sector. It's not his fault, constitutional solutions are such that he's not wondering not because he was, there were some before him, if Bog that there would be some after him, but the situation will mostly be the same, that we're not talking about the Minister of Transport and Communications, here I see him here now, and thank these ministers who are here, who aren't asking much too much whether Corridor Vc will go a month slower or five years faster. It doesn't matter how you turn these structures, because man doesn't have jurisdiction in the areas that he can influence, although he and the other competent ministry had jurisdiction to secure the funds, but there's too many carrots in this system that can obstruct and brake any attempt... Well, we're not talking about them today because we don't have their reports here on the table. We have a whole series of reasons and reasons to blame both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament and this Parliamentary Assembly and the parliamentary majority, that magic word. Did this Council of Ministers have a parliamentary majority? I would like to remind you that we have reached the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and that the parliamentary majority has met the conditions for signing the Agreement. It's not the parliamentary majority that appointed the Council of Ministers, to remind you, I don't want to remind you of what it is and how it is and how complex it is. And many times we had the parliamentary majority ad hoc formed, depending on how much we liked the proposals coming from which ministry. And that's not why the Council of Ministers was wrong. I want to remind you how many laws have been brought down by this Council of Ministers, so this Council of Ministers, which had a parliamentary majority. We are discussing a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. I don't want to be a lawyer either, or I'm not going to be any other Council of Ministers, but I have a need for both human and political and ethical, however you want, to say that it's not correct to accuse anyone of something that he's not responsible for. So, anyone, even if it was the Council of Ministers, even though it's always easy, because we're in a more favourable position, we set them up, they suit us, we have the right to attack them, they don't have the right to fight back, and then there's no better chance, can we do whatever we want? We're not actually making any progress. ... So, the bottom line is that in this country thanks to the constitutional legal structure, thanks to many of the experiments that have been conducted and conducted on the citizens and the fates of the citizens of this country, we have several authorities that absolutely have nothing to do with each other. We have legislative authority, we have executive power, we have an entire set of independent institutions that they don't even know who they're responding to and we have -- why don't we just say that, because we mentioned it here today -- and a government called OHR. And some of these reports have no chance of seeing, let alone attacking, criticizing. Here's a chance from those who, as the only one, are answering us, so the invitation to all of us, accepted or did not accept the Council of Ministers' work report, unfortunately nothing will happen. This is the problem of this country's system – nothing will happen. And if we had considered this report in the first month of this year, nothing would have happened again, so we have a system, so you know that this Council of Ministers meeting has been confirmed twice in this House, remember that because we had no other solution. Why don't we have 10 months after the election of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers? How is that possible? Why aren't new elections scheduled? And in normally arranged countries, this happens when no government is established to discuss elections. It's impossible for us to do that. Let's turn to reality and let's, instead of using opportunities to attack ministers from friendly 39 or competing political parties, really all try together to come up with a solution in which the Council of Ministers, whoever it is, will have constitutional and legal foundations that can effectively work on the satisfaction of all citizens and of all the peoples in BiH and then it will make sense and that it will make sense to resolve them, then it will make sense to call elections when we don't establish power within some normal time, as it is in all other countries. This way, not because I'm too satisfied with the Council of Ministers' effects, because it doesn't mean anything, I'll support this report without any conclusions, because I think it's completely supported or not supported, but just so we don't stall, so we don't make a tape out of it that doesn't make any use of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5997	Replica, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5998	The Honorable representative, Niki. The executive government at the level of the BiH state is the Council of Ministers, and there is no influence on the creation of ambience in entrepreneurship, industry, craft and any branch of employment, especially since the country-level authority is a fiscal policy, one of the main VAT pillars that 60% of income gives to all budgets. Therefore, only fiscal policy has its influence. Not to mention foreign trade policy and the protection of domestic production that was in the last parliament, we know, rejected, and was proposed here. It would certainly be a better situation if we had that law now in place and would certainly be easier to cope with and there would be progress in employment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u5999	Slavko Jovičić also applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6000	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I made the last call on this agenda point on purpose, and I thought I wasn't answering at all, it would be best. But respecting and always welcoming colleagues from the Centre of Civil Initiatives not to put it there, because it would be a rarity if there was one session that I hadn't come forward, so I'm really saying this honestly to you to write it down. Now this report. Well, my people, I've been really waiting to hear about this report. Now, some ministers have worked best, so can this parliament appoint them ministers because of this best work? These other ones have worked the worst, well, can this parliament send them immediately today to support the sentence? He can't, neither, nor the other, nor the third, nor the fourth. And I must remind my colleagues who are in the new assembly of an extraordinary situation when indeed the honourable gentleman and MP, and then in the College, Mr Belkić, chaired and one misunderstanding was only in the moment and this situation shows the report. They were parliamentary questions, and I really did knowingly ask a rewarding question, not a parliamentary one. First, let me list the institutions that exist in this country at all, and let me know what they're dealing with, and then we can discuss what they're doing. But there was no answer like that, and I never got it. And then through various reports we got to economic diplomacy, and that's what I asked... 40 at five sessions, so he suggested a reward for an ambassador who brought in an investor to honor him with the greatest medal. Since it didn't happen, the Ordens of the others, I don't know if they still have it. It's the same story today. Next year's gonna be the same story. But then we'll be able to criticise that current council if we ever choose it. And now we talk about the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and people that some of us know will sit back in those ministerial chairs, some will go to other jobs, some won't be anywhere in politics, and what have we done today in this part of the agenda? Do we have a report from Parliament? That's the report we need to tell me. Can we order anyone in this country? Can we look for anyone's responsibility? Can we see the report of this and that in various ministries, if someone didn't do what he didn't know or wanted, or did he purposely do what he didn't need in his own favor or at the expense of this country's interests? Well, that's the kind of report I need. That's why I finally called to give myself a blow-off and creamworth to say that this is a wasted time, that this is a vain story. So whether we adopt this report or not, no one's going to do anything today, everyone's going to go back to thank Bog for lunch, coffee, and no one's going to mention anything tomorrow except the press who's going to write something. So, we've wasted only time discussing something that no one has any use for. So I'll finish, so I don't use my time as planned, because this has been enough and too much for me to say, "You intend to report to which time has passed." You intend to run for agenda points that will contribute nothing to advance the situation in any segment. And stay away from all sorts of reports and criticisms when there's nothing we can do. And I don't want to be a cop, I don't want to be a prosecutor, I don't know who, I want to be an MP like I am. But tomorrow will be Parliament's responsibility again. Like they didn't do anything. So what do I do, here's my 10 for the report. The highest academic grade and I'm not a professor, from where I'm entitled! So then I say, what's the ten of these reports for when he deserves a unit, here's one. So in the range of that, let me make up a little bit so I don't insult some ministers who did well and the ministries, here's six, to have a passing grade. And what did I say in that range? I did something stupid. Well, I don't want to discuss the reports of all sorts of people we don't have any use for. Whether we adopt or not, it's as if it's important to someone. Well, if anyone were interested, here would be the whole Council of Ministers, thank you for coming, Minister. What's gonna happen? None of them are going to take off their tie now and throw away the gunned down that his report wasn't adopted, but they're going to call me for coffee and say, "Bravo, Slavi, you didn't criticize me." That's why I'm gonna finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6001	I remind the MPs that for all agenda points, all MPs in this House have three opportunities to remove them from the agenda not to come to the agenda. First, inside your clubs. The second option is on the Extended College through its representatives and, thirdly, when setting the agenda. Don't vote for the agenda, and then when we get there and open that agenda point, we'll discuss whether or not she should have been on the agenda. Mirza Kušljugić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6002	Well, my replica is very short and refers to several recent discussions. You saw that we at the Foreign Affairs Commission together and in agreement with the Minister and his assistants found it very difficult to work in that ministry without law and strategy. So we started some kind of procedure, referred her to the authorities, among other things, and to ourselves. My 41 interventions with the Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations were also in that direction. So, we are not discussing this report to assess only the Council of Ministers, but to sort of show what needs to be changed in order to create an environment for the Council of Ministers to do better, which is within our jurisdiction. So I think we should have this kind of discussion and it makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6003	A fellow Jovičić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6004	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's your line, but watch it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6005	My point was general nature.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6006	No, not a note. You're absolutely right because that's exactly what you just said. That's not supposed to be an explanation, that's how it's supposed to be. But what I wanted through my discussion was to try. My people, Croatia is in the EU in 2013. No, she's tomorrow. The Chinese wall is on the border, will this people survive even though we have the best foreign trade relations with Serbia and Croatia? What happens tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, 2013? Do we have that vision? You intend to do what you've been through, no one can benefit from that. That's what I meant. But I am aware that it must be found on the agenda, we must discuss it. But I'm asking you as friends and colleagues not to lose on it, we're wasting ourselves for no reason at all. We're not gonna achieve anything. If we have... a vision in 2013, the EU is at the door and what we have little exports, it will all fall. We won't need CEFTA, neither do I. What are we gonna do, guys? Give us some vision and it's not... no replica of you. You're doing it in college, that's right. And I welcomed it, although I always vote against the agenda, not what dots are, but what there are not those you write there in the record. They attended—no, there are five minutes, and there is no agenda, and there is no record that is adequate about what has happened. That's why I'm against it. So, Honorable Chairman, I support everything you've said. But give me more, what's past that we can't change, the criticism is over my head, that we're planning on it, but do we have a vision of what's waiting for us tomorrow? Will we survive this year, next year and next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6007	Thank you. Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6008	Thank you very much, Chairman. 42 Here I was thinking whether or not to talk about what to talk about finally when it comes to this report on the work of the Council of Ministers. In fact, in the last term when we discussed the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, I was well prepared and percentages and figures and then we waited for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to appear, we took a break and we did not want to discuss this point, the Council of Ministers' report on the work without the Council of Ministers. This year, as I see it, it is neither necessary nor concerned by the chairman of the Council of Ministers for this report, which has been submitted to this House, which has been appointed by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it devalues itself, thus devalues Parliament's role in this, which we should, of course, talk about because it is too important. If I go back to this report now, then, as both predecessors and predecessors have said, the form of the report, the content – you're talking about some numbers in a mark, and the key things aren't scored, they're not highlighted, but they're such a smooth pile of paper, as whoever sent it, so just someone added the page numbers. If we're going to talk about it, it's very, very critical formally viewing the report as some sort of material. I can't call him a book, the book has its own legality, this is some material that someone sat down like that and threw up and said that the end of this Council of Ministers is in a technical mandate, so it's no good, but what I don't care about is what's wrong with it, and I won't be, if I'm a minister, nobody's going to take it as a bad reference, or as a negative thing. As far as content is concerned, I say in content we have nothing important, we have no basic parameters of what strategic commitment to the work of the Council of Ministers was, what were strategic achievements. We also last year, considering the annual report, said that it would be necessary and that it would be natural and normal for one government – let's do it in a Colloquial way, although it is the Council of Ministers that has, of course, its chairman – to review what the Council of Ministers is all over its mandate, including this technical part, worked. I think this Parliament should be looking for some kind of recapitulation of what has been done, with a view to what is key to what is wrong, their vision of why they couldn't do it so that we can discuss these things here, to correct them in the way that the Parliament of a country should do it. So we don't have anything, we don't have anything that's been done for four years. Do we have annual reports, I don't know last year we had their report that was also as creamy as this one here we have it. Every term comes to an end and this term. However, we need to know, this Parliament as a surveillance and that adopts or does not adopt this report, whether, and it makes sense, and I think it must make sense that these things are being arranged; I am speaking in principle because it is finally completely pointless now to enter figures of this one here that don't mean anything to us today, but some strategic things I think have to be stressed. I would ultimately suggest that if the Council of Ministers does not already lead the Council of Ministers, at least that the Technical Services of the Council of Ministers should provide us with a review of key activities and key shortcomings of what the Council of Ministers has done, in accordance with its definitions and plans, has not achieved. Why? Neither begins with this composition of the Parliamentary Assembly of the work of this Parliament, nor is this the first or last Council of Ministers' meeting and we must have, if nothing, continued information that we do not start each time, from the beginning, looking for half the mandates for information. Here, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6009	I'll give you the last word. Here's Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6010	Thank you, Chairman. We see how much debate we had on this 2010 report when the Council of Ministers' regular work was. We can only imagine what kind of debate we will have for 2011 when the Council of Ministers is in the technical mandate. The SDP club is expressing its concern for the situation in BiH, the difficult economic situation, the unemployment of most BiH citizens, and is jeopardising both the failure or failure of the Council of Ministers. We call on the relative winners in the elections to propose to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible and to carry out their commitments in the pre-election campaigns. I call on the BiH presidency to invite the presidents of the political parties to consult on the proposal of the council of ministers as soon as possible. We cannot deafen ourselves to today's, so to speak, Mr. Lijanović's public candidacy, which comes from the platform, which has actually given his work programme. At least that's how I could understand him in this part of his 10-minute exposure. I think there's enough power and I think there's enough wisdom in this Parliament to support the activities that, as soon as possible, the political party, which are relatively winners in these elections, create a common platform of work and propose a Council of Ministers and that, I say, the state takes a normal course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6011	The Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Kutleša, once again called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6012	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me explain a little bit. Several lawmakers said not all BiH institutions are covered. They're not covered, of course. ... If administrative organisations are part of the ministry, then the field of work and part-time work, i.e. the administrative area for which the ministry is established and which covers the area of the administrative organisation that is part of it – the work is shown in the section relating to the report on the work of the ministry. Of course, there are also those institutions that, according to this manual, do not have the activities that we felt necessary to find in this work report, which is the adoption of legislation, the conduct of negotiations, the conclusion of international contracts, the process of European integration, the planned and implemented programming tasks, did not have them, well-authorized budgetary resources, that is, if they have these activities. Therefore, the report on the work of these institutions has been considered by the Council of Ministers. Why aren't there any independent, or permanent bodies of the Council of Ministers, General Secretariat? So I don't think it matters to Parliament, the work of the General Secretariat is important to the Council of Ministers, we, as far as we've prepared the session, have drawn conclusions, decisions, etc., etc. I don't think that's interesting, there's more of those, the law firm as much as he's given his opinions, etc. For these reasons, some independent bodies and some administrative organisations that are part of the ministry are not listed here. Of course there's here, here's the thing about me that this one planned – realised, only the contribution to this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, so someone mentioned on the issue of crime prevention: there are three planned and only two activities implemented. They're just the most important thing, according to this. Of course there have been (I suppose, I am speaking by heart) many of these activities that are not simply mentioned in this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, but they are listed in the report on the work of the Ministry of Security, I suppose, but they should not have been listed in this report on the work of the Council of Ministers. And let me just say that the chairman had some obligations and he couldn't be present for today's session. I am the Secretary-General and, under the Council of Ministers' Act, I participate in the work of the Council of Ministers. I can speak competently about the methodology. Of course, I am not responsible for any administrative area, so I cannot therefore be responsible for the work, or state in some administrative areas such as ministers, and they can answer these questions, I really cannot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6013	Slavko Jovičić answered the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6014	The Honorable Chairman, of course I cannot replicate in my Rules of Procedure, Mr Kutleša, I am now speaking to you, is not at your address or at your position or function; but here we are humiliated in Parliament. Well, Mr. Kutleša, you don't have the opportunity on the Council of Ministers to speak, not on behalf of the Council of Ministers to report to Parliament. We're humiliated today, people, I'm not gonna let this happen. Okay, I accept the finding that there is no Council of Ministers chairman, okay. Well, normally, a man can't be present if he's away. But does anyone else, deputy minister, I don't know who to report to this House according to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Kutleša, don't do it yourself, you're really doing great, I don't know anyone else, I'm not here to evaluate, but if you're reporting to Parliament as Secretary of the Council of Ministers on Labour, on the report and explaining what's been done, what isn't, but I'm asking what we are here. That's why I don't want to, I'm not the chairman, the chairman and the College are extraordinary, they provide an opportunity for everyone to say, to turn and our guests, and that's good, but today we're talking about the Council of Ministers' work for 2010 and the Secretary-General informs us what's been done, what isn't. And it's very short, because it can't take anymore. You have no opportunity to explain it to the Council of Ministers, not to us in Parliament. Is there anyone else who should have told us today, even though he shouldn't have told us anything, because we know everything. And there with you and here with us and you and with us and with you nothing and not to complicate the situation. Don't make people make this mess out of Parliament. No, I'm not going to humiliate myself here like... no matter what anyone thinks of me. I think of you colleagues all the best. Why is this allowed? Can't we once a year when we adopt the report have a secure representative of the Council of Ministers? Someone who's authorized! We don't have anyone. Let's not have them at any sessions, sometimes we have some ministers, and don't make me prefer it now, so I'm detached from the Minister of Civil Affairs who's extraordinary, the Minister of Economic Relations who's extraordinary, and others aren't. I'm not going to mention one in a positive or in a negative context. So, Mr. Chairman, it's not at your address, you really run the college well, but what we've been through today. What did we experience? Yes in the report, I repeat once again that you do not personally understand me, dear colleague, sir, who you are doing excellently, but it is not that you are reporting to Parliament what has been done and what has not, in this report, please do not allow it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6015	Replica, Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6016	My replica is on the same background as my colleagues, Jovičić. So, since my colleagues from the club spoke, I abstained during this point of comment, given what my colleague Belkić said that the citizens also expressed their opinion on this report to a good degree, but not only on this matter but on a four-year opinion. ... But what Jovičić said at the end is true. This is a little humiliating for this parliament, and I don't know what the real reason for that is. However, I have come under the hand of the presentation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers five years ago, which begins with the sentence "Our first task is to look reality straight in the eye." I think it was our turn today to look straight in the eye and put and jointly evaluate last year's report as... the last report in that term. And I really don't want to comment on what was in the exposé of the Council of Ministers and what wasn't fulfilled, but I'm just going to quote two or three sentences because I have so much time. So, the chairman of Špirić then said 'I am speaking to you unfortunately at a crucial moment for our country. Instead of looking forward to the decades-long progress of post-war BiH, I am standing before you at moments when all the peoples and citizens of this country are stronger than ever showed their torment, impatience, open dissatisfaction. I assure you that I am fully aware of the gravity of the situation and that I am fully prepared to face it. I must not stay away and hope that in the coming years, together with you, representatives of all peoples and citizens, with general support, I will find a new way out of this unsustainable state." So this is the first passage of his presentation and, if nothing, for what it was said then, we should be in company with the chairman today and talk about this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6017	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6018	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a few things I wanted to say in the end: namely, do not put formal reasons on the 2010 Council of Ministers' work report ahead of the essential reasons and issues that are very important for the debate in BiH. Each of you could have suggested that we not discuss this report until it is the chairman of the Council of Ministers here and would probably get support in this parliament. Why now, at the end of the debate, are you leading this as the most important thing in today's debate? It is not fair, as it is not fair that in this way the conclusions proposed by Mr Mešić... Your conclusions may be partially accepted, but you can't... be irresponsible... The Council of Ministers does not attend the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers. Why didn't you suggest that this be taken down as a part of the agenda until the chairman of the Council of Ministers or one of his deputies arrived to put someone here who would answer questions? Today is not a debate on the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, today is a debate on the work of the Council of Ministers and on the institutions listed in this report. For that reason, I don't think it's the office to suggest these conclusions in this way, nor is it okay to discuss whether he should have been chaired here after we didn't propose that the agenda should be removed. The Council of Ministers in this term worked for four years 46 as best he could and I must say for this speaker that those who came from the RS were a better part of the Council of Ministers, no matter what the rest of them thought. And I guarantee that in the next Council of Ministers, the personnel coming from the RS will certainly be a better part of the Council of Ministers. Why aren't we talking about individual ministries? Why don't we get the ministries that came here two or three times to change? Why now there is no conclusion that either the foreign minister resigns or the chairman of the Council of Ministers puts him back in this parliament to vote whether he can continue his job in such a way as to propose changing certain things in BiH. Why are you asking in your conclusions that a new report be delivered in a month's time by the chairman of the Council of Ministers? Does this mean that you already know that for a month this state will not have the Council of Ministers again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6019	Replica, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6020	Very short. I don't want to comment on most of the discussion, just to look at the proposed conclusions. So, colleague Živković, the proposal for a conclusion given by his colleague, Mešić, is in the wake of a discussion by your colleague from the Dušanka Majkić club. My discussion on the presence or non-presidency of the Council of Ministers is also on the trail of your colleague from the club, our joint colleague, Slavko Jovičić. So I don't know why you're reacting this way? Maybe this is something you need to discuss at the club before, and then let's talk about it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6021	Replica, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6022	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6023	Mirsad Mešić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6024	I just want to confirm that it's actually Mr. Živanović's replica. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And well, 1:1, it wasn't intentional, but it was. So you convinced me that I'm absolutely right, I, of course, support these conclusions in a energetic way.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6026	Replica, Milorad Živković. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6027	It won't work, so, like so far, many have failed to argue either the SNSD Club or the SNSD leadership. Everyone in this club has the right to an opinion and exposure. I was talking about conclusions that aren't consistent. Namely, the first part of the first conclusion is in line with what Mrs. Majkić was saying and it's quite OK. But it is not right to write in the conclusion "it is irresponsible in the debate that there is no Chairmanial Council of Ministers". It could have been written to call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come when he presented this report you are looking for. And it is not okay, nor according to your political presentations here in BiH, that you will write that the same chairman of the Council of Ministers delivers a new report in a month, and you are talking about how quickly BiH needs to get the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6028	Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić. I'd like to ask the other colleagues for some attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6029	I have needs since Mr. Jovičić does not have the right to reply, but on behalf of the club I want to say that Mr. Magazinović is wrong. You just did the opposite of what Mr. Jovičić suggested. He said there was no point in discussing this, and you've offered us a conclusion here where you're asking us to repeat this all over again. And he clearly said here his position, behind which I stand, for days now to discuss something that has passed, and he probably doesn't bring any results. But I stand behind what he said, contrary to Mr. Magazinović, what Mr. Kušljugić said should be learned from this. But that should be done, probably Mr. Magazinović was not here when it came to the need for future Council of Ministers and future relations. And that's what Mr. Jovičić was talking about. Mrs. Majkić also spoke not of the need to discuss this again, but of what is not there. Oh, no, and I understand that you want to do all this again to get Mr. Špirić here, which is not controversial, you just had to do it yesterday. What Mr. Živković said, at the College, you could have asked, as we did for the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and everything else. So you missed somewhere and you see it at the club. The SNSD club is about this completely against the background and clearly knows what this story wants.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6030	Azra Hadžiahmetović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6031	Thank you, Chairman. I have a need, of course, even though it's all part of the Rules of Procedure, to apologize for finally reporting for the discussion. I had exhausted two replicas, and I had the possibility of discussion, and because of my application, although several interesting polemics followed, there was a proposal for a conclusion that was shared with the MPs. Well, here's the thing, I was just about to mention, although 48 Mr. Živković has exhausted the contents of my discussion well, does this point 2, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion under 2nd, that the SDP is already counting in advance that there will be no Council of Ministers in the next 30 days, not to say, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers? However, it is not, it is not essential, here in the controversy debate is mentioned on several occasions, and counterpart Živković said so, why it is not proposed to interrupt the session and call on the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Živković, at the very beginning of the debate on this agenda, the second in a row after Mrs. Majkić was me who, among other things, mentioned that it would be quite logical that the College provided the presence of the Council of Ministers chairman. I'll just remind you that you were able to react so with some other state institutions, take off automation, even though we adopted it as a item of the agenda, by automating when this agenda point comes to the agenda, in the event that we don't have... provided adequately by the competent representatives of that institution. So I don't even think this debate, more or less, was too high. More is said methodologically, which is quite logical, since here he was the secretary general of the Council of Ministers' Secretariat, more was said methodologically about the report itself. The proposals that are heading towards delaying the plea, supplementing, returning the report, I think there are more alibis for the key things that burden this country, which is that no one is asking why we don't have a new council of ministers, why we're not discussing the 2011 budget today even though we're already in retail in the last part of the year. And it seems to me that the proposals of this kind, and some of the discussions that could be heard, are more like some of the good masters of the collapse in this House, who first spoke of the need for a programme coalition, and then the mathematical coalitions. Here, this morning I ran into some newspapers on a new technical partnership structure, and after this debate, especially the controversy between SNSD and SDP, I wonder if there could be a technical partnership in this country. So let's not kid around here or create some room for some alibi. Let us, however, wonder what is really the essence of today’s debate, which are lessons and messages. I'm not about to adopt this guy's conclusions, because no one here has even talked about the contents of the Council of Ministers' work. I am also not for the College to provide for such a debate in the future without the presence of adequate representatives of the Council of Ministers, which would provide a real content debate. I, too, deeply hope that more and more will stop quoting the opening speech, the inaugural speech of Mr Špirić four years ago, because we are talking about the 2010 Council of Ministers' Work Report, not the full term. Or, if we're going to talk about the whole term, let's put it on the agenda and open a content debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6032	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. What? It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6033	I'm in charge of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6034	Discussion. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6035	And it's true that I have two more replicas, if necessary. So, we are discussing the 2010 Council of Ministers' Work Report. Since this is the last annual report likely to work in this four-year term, it is natural for a part of the MPs to refer to the entire mandate as part of that four-year term in 2010. And I must say, to be precise until the end, as far as SDP MPs are concerned, we will vote against this report. The reasons why we're going to vote against are numerous. Today, many MPs, not only from the opposition, but also from the positioning parties, cited them. It is quite logical for some MPs to refer to the exposés of the Council of Ministers and to the agreement signed in 2007 and see if it has been realised in these four years, including 2010. There is no need to remind what results have been achieved. The fact is that from 2002 to 2006, the Council of Ministers has left a much better state in the country and left the Council of Ministers elected in early 2007. The fact is that this leaves the Council of Ministers in much worse shape before the new Council of Ministers arrive. As far as insinuation towards the SDP is concerned, our view is also a sincere pledge to form the Council of Ministers of BiH as soon as possible. But if one of us is asking us to form it the way this was formed, and it works the way this was done, then you just gave us the right arguments today not to do it. However, unlike this Council of Ministers, the future Council of Ministers whenever it is formed, and hopefully as soon as possible, will not start from scratch. That Council of Ministers is about to go down in a major downfall. In these four years, and especially since April 2006, the atmosphere in this country has been poisoned so much that it will take much more wisdom and energy to bring the situation to zero first. And who made that condition that I, here, remind you of in April 2006, I think it's quite clear to everyone in this country today. I would like to make it very clear that we should focus our energy on the formation of the Council of Ministers. However, there is no one here to express the majority that he can do it himself. And those who speak of relative winners, here if they are already calling SDP and SNSD, it should be said that these two parties have 16 MPs. There are 26 other MPs in this House who can mathematically do it again and have an entity majority. So the different combinations are open, but we'll talk about it when the agenda is right. After all, we've already had one candidate as a prime minister and we know who voted "for" who's against it. We're going into a new procedure, but it's very important that we get this experience, and I'm going to end it in 2010 and these four years not to make any more mistakes that we've made so far. Replica, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6036	So, all of these facts, or arguments, under quotes, that's what you said, which you said in 2002 to 2006, and then this past term, and what was left behind -- that's all the things you used in the pre-election campaign. So the election took place behind that, and they gave the result they gave. So we have to go back to the right thing, the key thing – establish the authorities. You've had an election campaign, you've presented it all to the citizens and the public, and you've received support. Here you go, make a power. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6037	Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6038	Here, although I expected that we would listen to my distinguished colleague Jovičić, but it obviously went in another direction, and perhaps in the right direction, who knows – my replica refers to what Mr Bećirović said for the past four years. I'm not going to go in there and question those scores, as he said it was very bad, but I would remind you of something else. It was some sort of condition. The term of office is four years. The SDP as an electoral winner has been spending a year of mandates in which we have nothing to assess because there is no condition. In the previous period, there was a condition that one graded anyway. You're responsible because there's no condition. ... Anyway, when you take the ball from the football field, there's no ball in the field. I fully understand that in your previous term as an opposition, you could speak like that. Not now. Now you are an important factor that has contributed to a situation like this where there is no state to evaluate. No, there's no Council of Ministers, there's nothing going on, not even negative. Although, of course, it's basically all negative. So – this is how to call, what Mr Belkić said, I can understand because of the election campaign, but now that you've got a chance to finish – the SDP manages the legislative authority in this country, the highest authority, the BiH Parliament. How did you come by that? What did you take if you didn't have an impact on everyone else? The people know and see you as power. The way it is, you had to be aware that SDP couldn't make a move because of one chair. But I expected you to at least keep it quiet, because now it's a familiar fact for everyone. You have a chance to form power in this country in 48 hours. For certain reasons, which I can understand or don't understand, you won't do it. Are you convincing in explaining why you won't do it, it's something else. But you have a chance and the citizens of this country need to know that. It means that you have a chance, if you care about this country, to form power in the Constitution and the law within 48 hours. For some of your principles, and it's democratic, and it's democratic, you're not the only one invited. And I agree with you when you say there are others. And in the last term, you were an opposition because you didn't have a chance to act differently. Now you have, you can, and you don't have to. But it's only awkward to teach lessons after that very awkward position you're in. ... I guess Parliament manages the processes in this country. You, as Parliament's chairman, must have some majority, I suppose you do, you do! As you have come to this and get to the Council of Ministers, come to other things. So it's not correct. I'm not defending the grades from the previous period, I'm not going to look back at them at all at this point. But they're now in relation to this situation, because whoever said it was bad to argue with the fact that we can't even get to the bad one right now. We can't get to anything and where you can't avoid your responsibility. And I think it would be a good idea to talk about it in the election of a new Council of Ministers, and not with this as it is, the outgoing one, and which any debate on this will not change the state of the outgoing Council of Ministers. But who knows how you started playing with these deadlines, so there's no suggestion. If I'm adding that up now for 30 days, and only then the proposal and the rest, it's very far, very far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6039	No microphone 51 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6040	...to realize that this wasn't a roll call for me to say'relative winners'. These are facts, relative winners exist in this parliament and it is a duty to form from relative winners, so to speak, and to propose a Council of Ministers. The SBB wants to work in a legal way and to work on BiH's development, and in this sense we want to absolutely support and form power. We proved this in the election, i.e. in voting on the proposal of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, who was in the past voting period, and also in forming government at the federal level. As a constructive opposition, and as leaders of the opposition, we want to simply contribute as soon as possible to the Council of Ministers' election and to move BiH along the path it deserves.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6041	Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6042	So everyone expects me to probably disagree with Mr. Kalabić, with these thesis, but I'll start by agreeing with his first thesis. Namely, he said one, at least for me, the newspaper, which is 'that SDP is the electoral winner in the general elections', quote you. I think the key to the future Council of Ministers' solution could be found in that sentence of yours. Some, I won't tell you now which people from your party, claim that SDP is not an electoral winner, and since October they want to form power in a way that says that this electoral winner, and you said it's a SDP, can't be named by either the prime minister or the foreign minister, there may be some, quote, 'Minister for Refugees and Displaced Persons'. In what country in Europe and in the world is the electoral winner thus ordered and thus wants to form power? If there's an example like that, I'd really like to point him out. On the other hand, you said the SDP was responsible for non-forming the government. We and many other citizens and circles in this country think the SNSD is responsible. We think this because I am president of the party almost every month says that BiH is an impossible state and we think that it is he who does not want the formation of either the Council of Ministers or other institutions to prove that BiH is an impossible state. Second replica, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6043	Here's to agree with the first construction of Mr Bećirović, the election winner of course in the Federation, you forgot to add that, because you, because you don't exist in the RS, are going to be a winner where you're not there. I mean, I guess you understand that. You used to be when you were running some other policy. So, of course, it means that you are the election winner of the Federation and that two partners from the RS and the Federation who are the winners, we are neither we nor we have any idea that we are telling you that we are in the Federation winners. I don't know how you think you are and someone thinks that you are winners at the level and that the RS and the Federation can thus participate in forming power with those who have won. It's not correct of people, here, who represent themselves and want to be opposition and give, so there were elections, to those who got the most votes to be winners. 52 It is true, some of my party speak very uglyly of BiH, but I do not know what you are doing to her. What you are joining them, from the SDP, is your actions you are joining those who from the SNSD are shouting that they are not very interested in BiH, which is the usual thing. But I don't know how you've been joining them lately, you SDPs, so you don't care, I don't say don't yell at that BiH, but you're doing everything the same as those who make a fuss about it. And that's the newspaper the SDP put in, which surprised me. Since one fierce campaign for the state, for a man, has turned into a country for one man who is satisfied with half of BiH and all of the campaign has been a story for a man. Although I'm also not going to understand why the SDA is looking at which is a completely different policy of leadership and now it's watching how this SDP sort of entertained its part of the cake and has no initiative. So, Mr. Bećirović, it's not a matter of an election winner in BiH that he can do whatever he wants. The government in BiH must be formed under the Constitution and the law, regardless of who is the winner. And there is no winner who can take anything in BiH, so, among other things, the SDP will never be able to do it, or anyone else. That is why it is the specificity of BiH, because you mean that the electoral winner should ignore the past, the constitution, the laws and the rest. Now even on that part (I don't see Mr. Jurišić today), God Bog you stick to that part, there all day, and that part seems to be being asked. I think that you should sit down, add it well, get down to one reality, get rid of those pre-election, all of those big things; we all experienced it when it went high to get back somewhere normal and to sit people reasonable; this country needs power, this country needs the authority of those who have legitimacy, who have the support of the people, from all three peoples, and it needs to be formed as soon as possible, without any experiments, without any attempt to make each other, because it finally proved impossible, and fraud and the like. We need a government that will be legal and legitimate in every part of this country and behind which will stand all three constituent nations and all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6044	Replication time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6045	I think it's the order to form it, and all these other pre-election calculations and attempts I think we should leave behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6046	The replica was answered by Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6047	Thank you. My replica goes to two presentations of distinguished representative Kalabić, mostly. And I have to say, I didn't expect him to say so many things with his exposure that I can't agree with in principle. First, I cannot agree that there is an electoral winner in this country. The election winner is the one who has 22 votes in this parliament, which include one third in both entities. That's not who I see here. That's the kind of political party I don't see around here. This is in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I could take it relatively if there was something that was relative, but I wasn't getting into it. But it's a purely technical business discrepancy. There's something I don't agree with much anymore. I don't agree with the 53rd first presentation, so I thought I'd comment or express my disagreement when you said that before these last elections there was some sort of state, so you said there was no condition at all. I don't agree with you that there's no condition. He's got a condition. It's just a lot worse. So, there is a situation, only it is much worse, because never, as far as I know, in post-Dayton BiH, the budget of the BiH institutions has waited this long for a proposal for adoption in Parliament and never, as far as I know, in post-Dayton BiH have we been without the Council of Ministers for this long. We have institutions that are constitutionally competent for it, obviously something doesn't work in them, and that's not the Council of Ministers from the last term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6048	Replica, Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6049	Well, it's actually a misquote correction. Mr. Kalabić said there is no SDP in RS. I am pleased to determine that we have our own committees, that we have our own MPs and, of course, we have delegates in the Council of Peoples of the Republic of RS. What concerns me and concerns us in the SDP is this fact that Mr Kalabić said there are some who do not like BiH in his party. That's not even SDP-like, of course. We don't actually have any of those.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6050	Discussion, Salko Sokolović. And this is what we need to end the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, for as long as I'm waiting, one half hour to get in line, there's been a lot of these replicas, but there's rambling, I'm fasting, so I'm a saburly man, I don't particularly feel like making a fuss today, but I've changed six discussions in the last half hour, and I'm not going to say what I thought I was saying. But since it's about the work of the Council of Ministers for the Past Assembly where I was also in office as a representative of the SDA, and I can't speak negatively about the work of the Council of Ministers and I don't want to talk about it, after all, because the liberalisation of the visa regime, the activities in the implementation of the laws that have been approaching us, it's been four years, and a series of some very positive things that the Council of Ministers has done, although it hasn't done well in some things, it's done some and maybe bad things, but I won't be of those who say when a man does a hundred good things and doesn't hire his son at last says it's the worst man in the world. Such are the most present today in our BiH. So there were good things and I'm behind it. But what I'm saying is, there's a lot more that we could have done in the last meeting that we were being followed from the opposition, here's the answer to the SDP claims. I mean, you have to admit those things, too. So some laws didn't pass because you didn't support them. Therefore, it is one picture of the work of the last Council of Ministers, perhaps it will be a picture for future work. I'm a real man, I don't want to cheer for this one or that side. I'm talking about some things that happened here, I listened to them with my ears. Some of the topics that made the negative atmosphere were in place. I simply interpreted it in the election campaign by creating an environment so that you could come to power. We're on that platform today. Here, we'll do some other things in a different way, maybe. But the budget that hasn't been adopted for eight months is the problem of all of us here, and those who propose, he was here once, we haven't adopted him. So what is the Council of Ministers that is currently in office? Both old and new would wait for this budget. What would it do? What, then, will the Council of Ministers 54 new, if we don't know, give the budget to the Council of Ministers who are currently in office to do some things. And then in a year's time, when the 2011 analysis is done, we're gonna talk about how money was spent like this, spend money like that, and we're gonna blame it on the money being spent because they didn't have people's budgets, doing what they're doing. I would ask them not to be in the technical mandate but to do their job. To do their job seriously. Ten months is a long time. We don't have the power. Here's what Mr. Kalabić says, so the initiative must exist from someone. I'm always asked by journalists if there are any authorities in the HNK. They never ask me as a state MP if there are any authorities in the BiH state. I'd like to be asked if there are any authorities in the BiH state. And the cantons, if Bog will, will be lifted. Entities, I mean, over time, if there's any luck in this country, it's going to look a different way; these younger generations that come when they run this country. But let us settle our affairs; so they will not be the prime minister, they will not be the prime minister, they will not be the foreign affairs, what do they want?- I'm sorry. What are the parameters to get close. Shall we move this out of the presidency from the political parties, shall we move it here to Parliament? Let's sit down and talk about it. Here I am ready. I'm ready, because every day someone asks me what the Council of Ministers doesn't have, and it's 10 months...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6052	My kolega Sokolović, let me remind you, the 2010 Council of Ministers' Work Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6053	I know, I just, you were all discussing in a different way, I'm saying this is the sixth version, I was thinking of saying something completely different. But I have the right as an MP in this House, as a man who has been elected by the citizens and peoples of this country of BiH who ask me every day what is the Council of Ministers, so here I am to speak here and say - what about the Council of Ministers? What about the budget? Which is why we have adopted amendments and additions to the Armed Forces Act, today we do not have the budget to start paying these people off, but we have made a commitment to the BiH state, etc. So, we need a new Council of Ministers, we need an initiative, but we also need me to come forward like this and say that this Council of Ministers... whose work report we're looking at here today hasn't worked as badly as anyone wants to say. Finally, the SDA ministers worked there, and I want to commend their work in the previous period and to have a global positive assessment, however, of the work of the Council of Ministers, no matter how someone looks at it in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6054	Replica, Mladen Bosić. This concludes all reported and debates on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6055	Here, I'll do it very briefly. First of all, to note that there are no ministers left, there is no chairman, there is no minister present, and that it is actually a reflection of this absurd situation that I don't know how many hours here in Parliament we're talking about a report on the work of the Council of Ministers that nothing can happen on the basis of how we vote and what we're going to say. And it was not the ministers and those who were, every honour that they had come, that is usually those who came, who did not smile for nothing while you were making your remarks here, because it had nothing to do with them. Whatever you say, they remain in office, only now they are no longer accountable to anyone. I'm disappointed with this discussion here today. Sometimes it's smarter and better not to say anything and not discuss anything than to get into a situation, because of cheap political points, that even deeper trenches dig up here and make any compromise and deal even more impossible. I see that some people appear here all the time, probably to have someone put in a line from the Centre of Civil Initiatives when there's a next report, to be the best with the highest reporting. Let's get serious, let's not discuss it anymore in a way that will further disable any compromise and any deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6056	I'm closing the debate on the seventh item of the agenda. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010 On the basis of Article 20(3) and (4) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, we have received the Annual Report 20. 5. 2011 The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission has been given to 30. Six. 2011 The Commission did not take note of the Annual Report. At the 5th session of the House, held on 14. Seven. In 2011, as well as at the 7th session, held on 27. Seven. In 2011, the annual report was postponed due to the non-preference. The 7th session concluded that it is necessary to invite the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, Mr Milorad Novković, to attend personally during the debate on the Annual Report, which was also done 27. Seven. 2011 I'm opening a debate on the Annual Report. Since Mr. Novković is here, I suggest we give him our word first, if that's okay with you. Here you go. I'd only ask for a pay phone here for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6058	Good afternoon, very esteemed and esteemed chairman, very esteemed and esteemed MPs. On this occasion, I would like to welcome you in front of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to thank you for putting the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council on the agenda to be discussed today. And at the same time, I want to apologize for not being present as President of the Council for two previous sessions of this distinguished home. At the first session, I wasn't present for the reason that she was a High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but we reported in good time. 56 However, because of the failure of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council administration, they did not meet the home in good time. At the second session of this house where there was a debate on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report, it was my deputy, Mikić Danijela, because under the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, two have vice-presidents who can replace the President of the Council in all situations. I could not access there exclusively for health reasons, she passed it on to me and I responded to today's Council meeting as I responded in the previous assembly of this House to all Council meetings, and even when I was not the President of the Council, when I was a member of the Council. I will briefly present a few things concerning the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, i.e. the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2010. I will krenuće first by the authority of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The Council or the Council has exclusive jurisdiction to elect and appoint all judges of regular courts in the Republic of BiH, as well as all prosecutors. Partly participates in the election of judges of the Federation of BiH and RS Constitutional Court. With the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, there is no authority and no choice and nominates judges and prosecutors in the Brcko District. The High Court and Prosecutorial Council has 16 members, 15 domestic and one international member. In the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, they are mostly members of the judge and prosecutors. One member of the Council is a person who is in front of the BiH Parliament and one in front of the BiH Council of Ministers. In addition, as a partner of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, he acts and works with BiH-level justice ministries, entities, the Brcko District judicial commission and finance ministries to provide funding for BiH's judicial institutions. When it comes to the fundamental principles of the judiciary – which is independence, independence, efficiency, objectivity and expertise – the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has the sole responsibility and is responsible for this. When it comes to what the public and this home are most interested in, it is as long as the independence of judges, or prosecutors – the independence of judges and prosecutors cannot be without a sign of equality with accountability. The same sign of equality when it comes to the responsibility of the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office, which is part of the High Court and Prosecutor's Board. I will present one fact, one fact, that 1,066 judges and 333 prosecutors are currently working in BiH at all levels. In the region, except for Montenegro, there are far more judges and prosecutors. When it comes to proceedings against judges and prosecutors, in BiH it is incomparable how many proceedings were conducted, how suspended, the judge and prosecutors were resolved and how mildly other measures were imposed on judges and prosecutors. In the history of the BiH judiciary -- I return to the period from 1946 until 2003, that is, since the first BiH-level Council was established, consisting of an entity's advice at BiH level -- no more and more judges and prosecutors have been resolved in that entire period of 50 years and more than has been done in the last five or six years. And what is the basic activity and commitment of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is to improve and bring the BiH judiciary into a state of efficiency, which does so together with the justice ministries. Without the full and proper funding of judicial institutions, it will not be done. I want to inform you here, as very responsible people, that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and in the coming period will do everything in its power to ensure that the BiH judiciary is effective, that is, to meet all the conditions and not be an obstacle to BiH's entry into European integration. The structural dialogue on BiH's judiciary began on 7 June, 7 June and 8 June, and I was the representative of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Several very important and 57 important things were discussed, and I am quite certain that it will also be in the coming period. First, when it comes to the strategy for reforming the justice sector – it is a very important and important document, in which all BiH justice ministries participated, certain NGOs and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council – on many matters, and especially on the principles and standards of the work of judicial institutions is agreed. No consensus has been reached on certain issues, which is when it comes to fragmenting the financing of BiH's judicial institutions, when it comes to unifying the legislation and when it comes to 'the Supreme Court of BiH'. And I can inform you that at ministerial conferences, this has not been discussed so far, and no agreement has been reached in this direction. However, there have been some recommendations during the structural dialogue, i.e. the first set of preliminary recommendations on the implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy in BiH by the European Commission. I'm sure you have those recommendations. When it comes to the justice sector and that strategy, there are five recommendations. All decisions of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council which took part in the ministerial conference and the work and development of the Justice Reform Strategy are recognizable in these preliminary recommendations, i.e. the first set. Furthermore, when it comes to implementing the State Strategy for War Crimes cases, the European Commission also gave the first set of preliminary recommendations in this direction. On the side of the Annual Report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, on page 117 to 125, you can compare these recommendations of the European Commission and the conclusions of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council from 1 and 2 December last year and the conclusions of the supervisory authority in which the High Court and Prosecutorial Council participates back two and a half years, which are recognizable in the first set of recommendations. And I would particularly like to ask you to get acquainted with the conclusions of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of the extraordinary session of December 1st and 2nd in Mostar, where we have reached 11 conclusions on the processing of war crimes cases and the implementation of the State War Crimes Procedure Strategy. Likewise, when it comes to budgetary reform and when it comes to the budget, when it comes to fragmentary financing, they have decisions of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, they have recommendations from the first structural dialogue that are also contained and recognizable here. On the issue of equal treatment before the law of all citizens in BiH, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council also reached certain conclusions that are also mentioned in the recommendations of structural dialogue. All these conclusions of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, or the Supervisory Authority, were brought before these structural dialogues, feathers for a year and a half, etc. I mentioned the number of judges and prosecutors, how much he works in BiH, and it is quite understandable when it comes to disciplinary responsibility that 1,300, or 1,400, 360 judges and prosecutors who act and work, that they all lack the same motive for work, that they all lack the same moral qualities, that they all lack the same responsibility and that they all lack the expertise. There is nothing perfect and in any case there are certain errors and there are certain mistakes. This independence of judges and prosecutors through the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office and in other ways we're trying to resolve it. Nothing special about the work of BiH's judicial institutions has been resolved in a better way than it has been resolved in BiH. On the contrary, there are worse solutions. The environment and the region are well known to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6059	Mr. Novković, I would like to ask you to finish in the next minute, given that it is business time for these opening statements. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6060	I'd love to. When it comes to information and communication technology and when it comes to electronic processing of the case, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and all judicial institutions in BiH are far away in that direction above the region and far above the standards of many European countries. You can also get to know about this on the environment sites of Montenegro, Serbia, Croatia and other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6061	Thank you. Slavko Jovičić signed up for the first discussion. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6062	Thank you very much. Just until the gentleman sits down, even if I'm past this time. So, the exact same situation as in the last session, I just don't know what year anymore, because it's hard to remember something when practically nothing happened. And when I talk about an institution, I'm always embarrassed that the people who are at the head of that institution identify themselves with that institution. So it is undeniable that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has every year the best book it makes, the report, for regulars excellent. That's what I said every year when we got this book like this. It's not a humiliation to the D.A.'s office either. Secondly, what should I ask you when you are independent of yourself, and I have no influence as an MP to ask you, nor that I will get an answer, nor any of my recommendations, and not your recommendations from the book, can affect you to change the situation in the judiciary. You're independent and I respect that. And if you weren't dependent on the budget, you'd never have published a single sheet and page, not a book. You wouldn't come here. It was polite of you to show up, you said twice you weren't and justified. But I don't even know today what we're gonna get for you showing up. Don't get it wrong, this House doesn't decide on your judges that you disciplined or called for responsibility, because we didn't even choose them. Well, I guess that was your job to do that, not to report to us today after the pay phone, I don't, I don't even know how many judges, the prosecutors were okay. I ask you as an MP who can't have any influence on you, maybe it's good, if you follow the public, to say that the public is most unhappy with the work of the judicial institutions. And you can present to Parliament today I don't know what kind of report. And you're practically not answering us, we can't sanction any of your judges, nor do I, your expert associate. Don't get this wrong, I'm not threatening you, God Bog, I'm not threatening anyone. We can't relieve you, here. Someone else chose you and how I would change you, and if I wanted to, if I chose, and I don't decide, fortunately, perhaps. Therefore, you mention the environment. Give me an environment, give me here surrounded by all the impossible and possible situations of the poor people who call me every day and say – there is Bog to preserve, the subject lasts 12 years, waiting. So if there's a judge, don't discipline him, let's reward him, let him finish the case 12 years ago. And this particular 117th page, and beyond what you've said, I've remembered it without you, these war crimes. So don't trust me as an MP, I said, which has nothing to do with you and what I'm looking at in you, it's just a matter of circumstances, because 59 I don't address you directly, you're not an institution, but you represent it. So do you see that this country right now or the country, as you like to call it, is not going forward because of an uncleared war past? And you were just sitting there, just not up there at the end, and now I'm sorry who sat you down upstairs, you were sitting in the other row. Last report when he was, so the chairman, Mr Belkić, warned me that you were present, and I saw you and asked you and along with then prosecutor Marinko Jurčević, asked you to make a strategy for war crimes to end and even proposed for five years. And he was proud that you accepted it. I didn't need you to say that to me, 'that's what MP Jovičić suggested in Parliament', didn't that mean anything to you at all. I insisted and received support from my colleagues, and here I am proud that we all gave you support at the time. And what did we get from you today? Get a book that we can't affect a single leaf. Here, we can't go to half the page. Then why do I need a book? This is where the book was written a long time ago. And then you talk about recommendations about what's going to happen. We're talking about a report on what happened. Let go of the recommendations of what will happen, who gives you support. We'll give if there's any results. But of course, I haven't forgotten that in your discussion you pay attention to your independence financially. Bog forbid you're here on your own, so we don't set a budget for you. They wouldn't know, they wouldn't know if there was a judicial system. You mention structurally this, so do you see that this country is precisely because of these structural your acrobatics brought into the worst structures. That nothing works. Well, at least do it. So they delivered reports that 40 billion donations arrived in BiH. Marshall's plan for Germany was 5 billion, people managed to get on their feet. 40 billion, I don't want to blame anyone, I don't label anyone. You steal people's huge money, and now you're waiting for me as an MP to give you directions on what you're going to do. So give guidance to your prosecutors and the judges you choose, not us. Here, you're independent of us. You choose them, you change them sometimes when they don't do what you think they should do, and you don't ask anyone, you're nobody's responsibility, and then you're like the supreme command of everyone, under the supposed signs of the judicial and prosecutorial armed forces, who are somewhere, doing something, and they're waiting for others to appear in the report. And now it's important here whether it's 60 or 40 or no disciplinary punishment. I'm asking you, did he return the wages he received, and he didn't do anything? It's not. I ask you if he ate that day when you punished him. He ate twice because he got rid of you for punishing him for doing nothing, and now he's getting paid again. And if I don't caricature this, and the cartoon is too much here, the worst reform, none and nowhere in the judicial system, it is in BiH, and you only boast because you were at some meetings and represented the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Have you learned wrong from them or have you never adopted our recommendations and told them that this is wrong? _________(?) Break. They said break, we have a break now, sorry. Is it up to me to break it up?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6064	Mr. Jovičić, you have... a word, and all other MPs will be asked not to report in the manner that it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6065	Here, here, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6066	For a break, you can all pick up and look for her. And if you're interested, it's in the plan after this agenda to take a break. Here you go. _________(?) We could figure out when there's going to be a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6067	Well, here's the wait. How many seconds has it been, 46, what they took from me, I'm not gonna make it up to you, I don't need to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to. It's not. Professor, good job. But here, let me finish. Same case in all the reports. Can we change one sentence and a word in this report? Can we get Mr. Novković, who may not be the most responsible for this,...don't get me wrong, but all of you there who are doing this, can you, on the basis of what I said today, and here's everything I said negatively against that High Court and Prosecutorial advice that you didn't even, to tell you the truth, you didn't need. Someone forced it. If Parliament had chosen, they would have chosen some judges, so they would have come here to sit in the front row to ask them. And this way I can't invite you to come either, you will when you will, when you remember, and not your judges. And it's a good thing you're independent. But then don't ask for money through the discussion, so you're addicted and that's lucky, because you'd increase anything there. Well, you won't get it, right now, through the budget. Because your results from this most profound book that I receive in Parliament are not, and then, in particular, chapter 10 of the war crimes where Srbin, Srbin, are unhappy and here I am, and I am avoiding it. As a representative of the victims of the war who spent 44 months in camps, I am completely dissatisfied with whether a single object will ever be seen where you sit the light of the day where someone is accused – I will not say convicted, it is a matter of the judge – for the loss of my Serbian people, my fellows. Is there even one item, when he'll be here? And then I suggested and helped you make a five-year strategy. Here it's been four years, how many more strategies do you have to write us the next book, you haven't done anything. That's the point. I know this doesn't suit many. But when we don't depend on anything or do anything to change this situation, I ask you to do what someone there has imposed on you. We're not answering anything. You're not asking us to do anything. We're nothing, you shouldn't have submitted this report either. What are we going to change in this report? I'm unhappy with everything, but what good is it that I'm unhappy. Thank you very much. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6069	By estimating the mood of the MPs, we give a break of an hour. Resume at 15.00 hours. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the debate within the 8th item of the agenda. MP Šefik Džaferović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6071	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, I think that before we say anything, we need to know what the position of the BiH Parliamentary House and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in relation to the institution of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the work of that institution. I'm afraid sometimes there are things going on. Starting from a system of power-sharing into the legislative, executive and judicial power and from BiH's commitment to develop the principle of independence, independence, autonomy of the judiciary system, it should be said that this House and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have no right to evaluate any institution from the judiciary system, or the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, nor the BiH Court, or the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I fear that sometimes this thing is not understood enough and that sometimes the line that should be spoken about the relationship between this institution or these institutions and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is crossed. They match the one to whom they comply with the law as prescribed, but our role here is primarily to consider in this report the recommendations that apply to us. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has made recommendations and these recommendations relate both to the executive power and to the judicial authority, to international organisations, so we need to look at what it is that is our job to help these institutions work in the best possible way. And the best way to do their job is to be completely independent and independent regardless of what is sometimes difficult to achieve. I claim to be the citizens of this country, and because of them we are the best presence here when these institutions in the system that have ensured full autonomy, independence and independence and the practices of the democratic world have shown that this is the best model and the best solution, everything else can be catastrophic. That's why I think we should take note of it, because it's our job, we don't adopt this report, because the legislator, so when we wrote, when we passed the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we didn't say that we were adopting, that they were submitting reports to us. Because the principle of independence does not endure that institution's reporting and that we adopt or do not adopt it. We do not have the right to adopt or not to adopt this report and it is a reflection of the declared and in the law of the written principle of independence and independence of the judicial authority system, but it receives information on the knowledge and it is my right to tell you astoundingly what certain members of the Constitutional Commission have handled when they did not want to take note of it, I mean, it is already politicizing the issues. They read it, they got this report, and it's clear that it's been noted, but here's how this attitude is kind of demonstrated to say that it hasn't even been taken notice, even though it is. Our job is to see what it is that we need to do in the BiH Parliament so that these people and this institution do their job as successfully as possible and focus on recommendations. And for this reason, I suggest that, apart from taking note, we support recommendations concerning this institution or related to this institution, which are listed in this report, i.e. information on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2010. 62 years. There's this job for us, one part of the job we started working here in Parliament when it comes to the pay law. Because... one of the greatest areas of reform of the judiciary is the attempt and a partially realised position that the holders of judicial functions in courts and prosecutors should be, that these positions should be a representation when it comes to ethnic representation in the '91 census. A year. It's the greatest progress for me, it's important for me to reintegration this country, to restore trust within this country, but it seems to me that we don't properly address this issue. We've got a bill here that we should encourage and it's no big money, people who break out of places where they have apartments and houses and work in other municipalities. These people work for the same salary they work for and those who have apartments and families in municipalities where they work. These people are not in the same position: if MPs, civil servants, members of the Council of Ministers or ministers at all levels have the right to separate lives and accommodation, then why, let's say, would not have judges and prosecutors leaving Zenica in Trebinje and vice versa from Trebinj to Zenica, for example, I'm just saying, do, do, or perform a judicial or prosecutorial function. There, that's the job we need to do and that's how to help make BiH's judiciary as successful as possible. Of course, there will always be problems and will always be able to criticise itself and therefore it is no problem at all, but I would remind us all that we are actually building an independent judicial system and I think that the model that BiH has chosen with an independent regulator called the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is one of the best models in Europe. It will never happen here in BiH again – because I think we have crossed that line, crossed that line – that judges and prosecutors are elected by some parliament, that it has some influence on it, it simply needs to be forgotten. This will be an institution that will do so, because it is simply a trend in the modern world, the democratic world, because it is actually something that has been tested in practice. There are countries that combine models, influence both parliaments and governments, have countries where they do it... but believe in the end it will end this way as it is installed in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6072	The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6073	Here's what happened and this Dan D happened when we had a chance to talk about this one important subject and that we had a present and chaired High Court and Prosecutorial Council for this opportunity. I want to remind you of article 20. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which says the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is delivering reports to the competent institutions, that at the call of the Parliamentary Assembly, the president or his authorised representative may replace him for the purpose of explaining the reports and answering the questions to the MPs. So we are allowed to present through the debate certain proposals, suggestions that do not challenge the independence of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. So, we receive the report, according to counterpart Džaferović, for knowledge, and in fact, what is the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for then. The report on its work delivered by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to parliaments says it serves to meet MPs, but without being able to do away with the same, which means without the practical influence of the people's representatives on the work of the high body. So, you can talk in a transmitted sense, you can say 63 whatever you want, but it doesn't have any effect because I'm independent. This is a unique example in the world, which means that one institution for its work doesn't answer to anyone, it's unmarked. I remind you that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is designed as an independent body that will allow judges to do their duty in an honorable and impartial manner within the prescribed standards, fulfilling that supreme postulate from the ancient max: go to the judge, means to go to justice. That's what we thought, but we didn't do it. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is a completely independent administrative body that competes with the justice ministries with its activities, with the difference that it acts as an inviolable supreme authority that does not answer to anyone. It can therefore be said that it has come out of the country's constitutional frameworks. There are a few things... that we really wouldn't be able to get past, it's primarily a composition of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Starting with the recommendations of the World Association of Judges, which speaks of the necessity that the judicial regulator should in any way provide representativeness with the right to ask whether this is provided in the current composition of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Secondly, I was really surprised, perhaps one of my colleagues was a little more involved in this, in the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, it says that it is a body that has 15 members. And then I saw that there was a 16th, and then I looked where that 16th came from, that's the 16th one he imposed, that is, by the high representative, even though there's no word in this law about it. It does not say that the High Representative is setting up a member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Does that mean we have a 16th member working in irregular status, and he may be the key thing for a institution like this? Does this mean that because one man has appointed a high representative, he will make all the decisions that fall into his mind through that person? And that is why it is often said that the institution of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is not being managed here by the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. That he's just a man sitting there, I'm not going to say the hard term "marionette," but that decisions are made there on the other hand. I remind you, there has been a lot of talk on this subject in the last case with Chief Prosecutor Milorad Barašina. It was forged somewhere else, and the execution was also done in a way that smells quite like what we're talking about. So, where did you get the 16th term? And does that mean the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is acting against the law? It is strange that from the beginning until today, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has not established realistic and meaningful rules on the choice of judges and prosecutors, so their choice is done in a statement and archaic way. As far as it comes, it can be seen that candidates participating in an election contest do not have the right to use a legal remedy, which is unmarked and contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Imagine, please, it's the only place where you have no legal training. Furthermore, it should also be added that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council makes its decisions in a hermetically closed circle without any consultation with the courts and prosecutors for which these candidates are elected. I asked one judge, "How do you know who he'll get the next round from?" He says, "I don't know, neither does anyone ask me, nor do I have the right to influence, to say I need those profiles, it'll be decided by someone in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we'll decide who decides." Furthermore, since it means making in a narrow circle such as its decision, it is also an answer to many appointments of judges and prosecutors who did not justify the appointment of such high and responsible functions by their work. Some members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council are punished for crimes committed by a reduction in wages for a certain period, and are then promoted to the highest posts. Well done! 64 a few words about the High Court and Prosecutorial Council Secretariat. So, the sekretarijat as a follow-up to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has turned into its opposite, because it is actually a parallel body, so practically of will and desire that service depends on what the Council will do. The service executives, whom Mr Džaferović had just felt sorry for earlier, were ranked at the level of the highest judicial duties, which is incomprehensible since the accompanying service is at stake. Because the responsibility of these officers is far from the responsibility of those who have the jurisprudence. But they decide. It's about the High Court and Prosecution Council. As for the situation in the judiciary: 2.5 million pending cases. There's nothing to say, not a word to the state of justice if you say that number. The largest number of pending cases in primary and municipal courts, a far better situation in the RS, why not say: 530,000 cases or one-fifth in the resolution phase, of which 300,000 municipal cases. Also, in the RS last year, business courts that are not in BiH's judicial system have been formed, but which show extremely good results, at least in what has been seen so far. So we currently have four separate legal systems in BiH, two entity, one BiH, one Brcko District. Our material laws are not identical, and in some elements they are completely different. The BiH judiciary must become more efficient, independent and transparent. About this independence, which we often abuse, could really be spoken. Because when you ask a question today to someone who is running for any function that will be decided by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and when you ask them what are the qualities...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6074	The discussion time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6075	(Here I am, finishing) what are the qualities they will take, on which they will overcome the decision whether to be chosen or not, you know what they will say - connection. And another question I'd like to ask Mr. Novković. ... Two people – one member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, that is Zahid Kovač, a lawyer from Zenica, and the other one is Redžib Begić, Judge of the Court of BiH – are persons who have been removed from the judge's post in due time by the decision of the High Representative because they are suspected of war crimes. They are today key people who decide at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and at the BiH Court. The questions of foreign judges within the D.A., of which practically no one, no work, stands. And one answer that would be very interesting to give, and it's about Sven Moris Urke and the 10 million marks your institution gets as a gift.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6076	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6077	So it would be very interesting to explain to us, we know what's going on with that money, we know that by the salary you get another 10,000 marks a month, I'd like you to say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6078	The word is Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6079	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be a little shorter because Mrs. Majkić said some things that I thought I'd say. Which is the problem, maybe it's a little off topic, but I'd like you to listen to me. The High Court and Prosecutorial Council model accepted in BiH is not applicable to this area. It's a Swedish model that some countries have, but you won't find in serious countries that parliament has no part in choosing judges. So, please, take only before whom is the oath taken, before whom does the judge swear? Is he in front of his colleagues or... (I don't underestimate the province, nor do I know the judges from Sarajevo) lays before that judge from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, yet this one has more experience, more and more knowledge, conjecture, and it doesn't have to be. Now, there are some things that are being manipulated by strangers. I was in Parliament when this law was passed and I said..., I also said: it is not applicable to us because it does not fit our opportunities, does not match our tradition, legal tradition. It's always said here that court decisions can't be commented. In continental law decisions can be commented, in Anglo-Saxon not. There is no organ in any country that is independent of other authorities. There's a division of power, that's the basic principle where one government controls another. Thus, a balance is established that the executive authority controls the judicial, judicial executive, parliament, etc. So there is one equivalent that must be established within the state. So there's no enclave in the state, so the judiciary is completely independent. I'm surprised my colleague Džaferović is having this kind of discussion. Well, that's nowhere in the world. Indeed, that's where Duška said well. There is nowhere in the world that such a serious part of the state government can be independent. It must be incorporated into the system, it must have responsibility, because under the current circumstances, under the current normative justice system no one is responsible. I am then this Šveđanin, the young Šveđanin who begged me, 'please accept this, you know, must pass it', etc., I voted against it, so I said 'how will this High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council be controlled?' And he said, "By the way of finance, you bring the budget and deny it." ... 'There is no law that you can deny the means of justice, you can control it.'... That's what I told him, of course. So, what's on the scene? It's institutionally set up an independent judiciary, and it's not. In fact, the judiciary is influenced by political parties. That's what we're witnessing every day. Just look at some of the decisions that are made, amazing, amazing. Therefore, the model that has been accepted is absolutely a priority – so it is neither for Srbin nor for Hrvat, nor for Bosniaks – that we must change because it is necessary for BiH, this situation, so we must simply change it, it cannot survive, it cannot be done because it does not correspond to reality and cannot be accepted. You see the run, Duška mentioned, running for the High Court and Prosecution Council. ... running, looking at the site, everyone can see how the judges are running, they have the same High Judicial Council, I think it's called, look at how they run,... there's an electoral commission, there are election committees, there's... there's a candidate, who can run, etc., but that procedure has been elaborated in order to create conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6080	Comrade Kunić, because of the stenogram, because of the stenogram just... is this your turn-on microphone over here or. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6081	Yeah, yeah, I learned to walk through the hall, so I'm sorry. One thing that matters, I would ask you to see it: the independence of the modern democratic state's judiciary avoids saying independent judiciary, justice, but an independent judge. In resolving a concrete case, the judiciary cannot be out of the context of state structures and it can be criticised as can be criticised by all authorities. Therefore, it should be distinguished. What comes from these facts that I tried to indicate, how successfully, I don't know. The state needs to control the judiciary, and it needs to pass a law that the state has the influence to control the judiciary as it controls all other authorities, nothing is a judicial function, although it is the most independent in Angolan law, it is there and how controlled. Look at the U.S. Who's calling the judges, please? In the current situation, the High Court and Prosecution Council is not responding to anyone. ... It can be fantastic, ideal, it can create a situation that we have people fantastic, fantastic structure and it can work for a while, but the state creates objective legal rules. In fact, it needs to be objective, so in the long run, and that means that we need to lay down the rules of candidacy, the rules of choice of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, if we stay with this model. So the emergency law needs to be amended. I don't want to talk about what's noticeable, I'm looking at the aspect of Banja Luka, and I don't think I'd agree that in the RS, the judiciary is ideal, no, the same situation as here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...it would be me, I should be great at your place because I speak for the objectiveization of the situation, don't look at everything politically. In the judiciary, clans, clans were created, and that's the most dangerous. We had in Banja Luka that candidates whom I personally knew were running; I belong to a group of people who have never dealt with anything illegal, who are excellent, who are honest, who are educated, who know their profession, have not passed. They just don't pass, you know the deal between the Federation and the Republic that needs to be missed... gone, and that other man doesn't pass. Therefore, it is also a very serious danger to the BiH judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6083	Replica, Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6084	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my replica refers to two previous exhibitors. By the name of Dušanka Majkić, said two members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, named and last name: Zahid Kovač and Redžib Begić, were removed and punished by a high representative for their possible involvement in the war crimes. I can say for the sake of truth: Zahid Kovač was a cantonal prosecutor until 2001, when the government of 67 Alliance replaced him illegally and was restored to that position again. And after that, he didn't have any more sanctions. And as for Mr. Redžib Begić, it's one of the congratulatory judges who's been out of the country... the canton, he was a judge before the war, the judge was also in the RS, I think for three or four years. Therefore, he came from that position as a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. But I also want to replicate to a respected professor. Here, we agree there isn't, maybe no one's controlling the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but they're acting in accordance with the law. I haven't had a chance so far, here's the fifth year I've been in this House of Representatives, I haven't had a chance to see that someone has proposed amendments and amendments to the law so and in what way they would leave the judiciary, the judiciary completely independent, and to control it, here, Parliament or, I don't know, some other institution. But I would also like to ask the distinguished gentlemen of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council: How is it actually to fight the political abuse of the prosecutor's office? We are unfortunately witnessing that in BiH we have as many cases as you want politically motivated processes and indictments which, of course, because of the prosecutor's career, the court never rejects, but does’ confirm the indictment and it goes further into the process. And when you get into that process, it's very difficult to get out. I've had a situation to be six and a half years in such a one-year process that sucks, eventually ended up in a liberating verdict, but you know six and a half years of spending money, time, nerves, health, etc. And of course no one is responsible for what it is, and many are such processes in BiH, unfortunately today. No matter what we think of Mr. Čović, but I don't think there is a man in BiH who has more of these charges filed against him. I think it's high time to stop once: if a man is guilty... let the court condemn him and end it, to put an end to it. But as soon as one indictment ends, or one process, the other goes on, it goes on forever. And then BiH citizens have no security in the legal system, i.e. in the BiH judicial system.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6085	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6086	Here I am using the replica for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6087	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6088	I was absent from the O.R. when Mrs. Majkić spoke, and I can't believe she's so easily after names and giving such difficult qualifications. I would ask all of us here in the O.R. that when we talk about these things and things that are so hard to think about and get ready. One man of those two has already been elected twice in this House and in this House, twice chosen, seven years ago and three years ago or six years ago and two years ago, unanimously. An honest man doesn't have anything to do with it, so man, it's not true that Zahid Kovač is suspected of war crimes. Redžib Begić, judge of the Cantonal Court in Zenica, judge of the RS Supreme Court for several years, is now the judge of the BiH Court, I have to stand up to say this - it has nothing to do with it and it is not true that the man is suspected of war crimes. I ask you to take care when you talk about names and last names, don't, don't put honest and honest people in a position to... try to muddle them here in parliament. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6089	Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6090	My colleague Džaferović, I ask you to take the line in the future only when you hear it... It's inappropriate and rude to replicate someone without hearing what he said. Second, do not think because some of them are your countrymen that you will be able to protect them in this way. And third, the time when they were talking about what you were talking about is the time when many things didn't know. Fortunately, it passes and many actors of former war events become known and clear. I'm asking you to make any threats or I don't know how you're making it impossible for me to say what I have. As an MP, I am responsible for what I say, and I am prepared to bear sanctions for what I say.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6091	Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6092	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Mehmedovic mentions the political processes that are being conducted here, exactly which were being conducted by our judicial institutions. It's these political processes, these indictments that were written somewhere in some alien centres of power that say that our judiciary is not independent, that our judiciary is not professional. The question of responsibility is who is to blame. I find it most wrong by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council which is unable to fulfil its legal obligation. But it is also the fault of those who have sat or sat here who have not so far proposed amendments and amendments to the law that will really allow this Monteskije principle to be shared by the authorities, which Mr Džaferović mentioned, to be operational in practice and to be so. Unfortunately, our judiciary is neither effective nor professional, nor independent. On the contrary, our judicial system sends a very ugly message to the citizens of BiH. It sends them a message that in this country you can kill a man on condition that you have enough money and that the prosecutor (Mr. Novković, responsiblely claims) deliberately makes a failure in his work to free the killer. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, Mr. Novković, has ignored seven-eight complaints about Mr. Goran Rubil's work in Doboj. In the end, Branislav Garić's killer was punished by six months of taking a gun. Who's responsible for this? I'm sitting in your seat after such a failure, after such a non-response of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I'd resign. I welcome the efficiency of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council when it comes to the case of Chief Prosecutor Milorad Barašin. However, I am surprised that the same political magazine has provided very compromising information and information about Prosecutor Goran Rubil. Where was this efficiency and independence then? I didn't see it, so, and there were very, very difficult qualifications and accusations. The second thing, absurd is the ethical code, the Code of Prosecution Ethics says "the prosecutor will seek his exception if the public can give the impression that he is unable to decide the case impartially". And I will now show you, and we have asked for the exception of Prosecutor Rubil, President Bosić wrote when he was assigned to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and the answer he received 'that the D.A. in Doboj has the necessary capacity to complete the investigation in accordance with the law, and to carry out it in a professional and fast manner'. We saw how it ended. The district prosecutor from Doboj Goran Rubil, in the middle of the 2008 election campaign on July 22nd, sends a letter to the SDS Municipal 69 Committee in Doboj, in which, believe it or not, here is the memo, asking for "an updated list of all members of the Serbian Democratic Party in Doboj in alphabetical order". Please, if he was investigating some alleged abuses against our activists, wasn't it logical that those people he's investigating are looking for if they're party members, not our database? Then the district attorney in Doboj Goran Rubil illegally brought in our activists and then... accused them of some crimes, in fact they are not even crimes, those are violations for which the CEC imposes a fine of 200 marks. The late Branislav Garić addresses the High Court and Prosecutorial Council on 1 October 2008 and complains of the work of Goran Rubil, here is the memo here, another memo, and also sends the same complaint to the D.O.D.A. in Doboj, where he states that the district attorney threatens our members in the previous procedure to be closed and arrested. Then on the day of the election, District Attorney in Doboj Goran Rubil, without the court's consent, without a court order, takes a man's cell phone and walks around Doboj and illegally shoots and photographes our activists. The late Branislav Garić has made a criminal complaint against him in Bijeljina. There's been a covert investigation, so we don't have any information on what happened here. In view of all this, given the criminal charges on one side and on the other, we expected, when President Bosić wrote to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, that Rubil would be excluded from the case. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Instead of having already made the failures, when he did not ask for super-skilling in the court procedure, imagine the killer asking him to be allowed to defend himself from freedom, the man entered, went away from the house, took the gun, put it in his pocket, said somewhere, along the way in the bar, went to kill Garić, entered the office, and with five shots very precisely killed him, sat down in the car, called his brother, and said I killed Garić, came here to Sarajevo, because he was afraid of retaliating our activists, turned himself in and then came to court and said: I don't remember anything. Interesting! And the prosecutor lets it all go like that. When the killer asks for such unaccountable, he says he's depressed, he's allowed to defend himself with freedom, the D.A. in Doboj County Court agrees and says he has no problem, he can, he's not dangerous in the environment, he can defend himself from freedom -- well, then we raise up, we make protests in Doboj, so the prosecutor complains to the Supreme Court, and we expect now that in the Supreme Court he's going to ask for a man to be in prison, and he comes to the Supreme Court and he says, "No problem, he can defend himself with freedom, let him go." So that's really embarrassing and embarrassing for the whole justice system. I note that more objections have been filed against Goran Rubil to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, that absolutely no one has responded, that unfortunately, I must say, and that I am amazed when I saw here today the answer that his work has been evaluated by a score of 3.50, and it is about a man who has lost more than 90% of the process he has been conducting and who is paid for the pepper damages, and even the killer Branislav Garić has the right to compensation; so he killed a man, he went free and will still make money on it. When there was a report from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in the National Assembly, our MPs pulled the same thing. And Mr. Novković said that when it comes to the prosecution of a criminal case in Doboj, the murder of Garić, as president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I do not want to get involved. Well, your job, Mr. Novković, is to secure a professional and efficient and independent investigation. Do you want me to tell you, the more we gave up writing to you, the prosecutor Goran Rubil in another case in front of the party, the judge and the lawyer sent one, not to say what kind of message to President Bosić, because we draw attention to what he was doing. ... There's no point in writing to you anymore, because no one's responding to all that. I call on you, given that the judicial system is in the state it is in, to show responsibility, to show that something needs to be changed here, and that as responsible 70 people you resign, all members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and that this is the starting point from which we will start to reform the judiciary, where we will make the judiciary what Mr Džaferović is talking about. I believe that he honestly, working in that previous system, when it really was, thinks it is now; it is not, Mr. Džaferović, our judicial system is rotten to the board. And we are proposing concrete conclusions, which is: To form an inter-resor working group that will eventually prepare amendments and additions to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council relating to the composition and way of selecting the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so that these members are not elected by those members who, after these members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, should be lustrated. (And that's where we make one of Gordi's knots amongst ourselves, and I don't know what's not yet). Furthermore, to remove potential abuses of positions by members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in the sense that during the term of the term of office they cannot be elected to lead judicial and prosecutorial positions, so as not to appoint themselves. And third, let's also consider the way the presidents of the courts are elected at all levels in BiH, with the exception of the entity constitutional courts and the choice of chief prosecutors, as well as the length of their term of office and to limit the number of mandates they may have. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6093	The first deputy chairman, Mr. Milorad Živković, applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6094	I've been holding back a few times not to comment on just one reason not to get accidentally misunderstood, which I wouldn't want at any time to happen. I'm appalled by the fact that a man can kill another man, that he knows... and who did it, and that he confessed, and that the weapon was found as soon as it was done, and that man was free. I'm appalled by the fact that there's an error in the system that won't allow the process to be restored and that in any way it will return to the state that this man is responsible for the crime committed. And I'm going to raise my hand for any activity that's going to take place in the direction that the criminal is responsible for what he's done. And at this point, I can say that there are peas in the system in BiH. But we also have a problem in acting under the existing law that in the same Doboj, according to information that every citizen in Doboj knows, there is no question of the origin of tens of millions in the desert debate. That no one in Doboj would want the prosecutors and the competent institutions to lead how someone could, with a simple salary, make tens of millions. And I can say and I realize that there's a problem in operating the system according to the law... we do. In another example, it is best to speak, for example, general stories are done when you want to explain the demagogue something, and it is best to say by example what you think you are saying, and I will say that this is also an obvious bias and political interference in the system, and in the judicial system, and in the system of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, here, for example, the Governing Board of Television of BiH. Namely, in the case of a former member of the Management Board, Plamenko Čustović, the OHR interpreted that member 71 of the Management Board is acting in the technical mandate until a new one is chosen. What did the BiH Court of Justice do? Changed his mind and said that Agović was illegally removed. And he did that, please, in one day's received submission, delivered it to the judge and immediately reached a solution. And a year and a half days shall not be allowed to enrol the BHRT directors. What are we talking about, what are we talking about, what kind of judiciary, what kind of prosecution are we talking about? And third example: creating judicial and prosecutorial practice. The man calls the prosecutor, gets elected to the prosecutor, goes to the official messenger, and someone gets there, and someone gets kicked out of all colleges like that. The law professor complained of that solution, the man was being punished as an inspector during the war because he was slapping some donkeys who took a gun from a police officer and got a sentence for it, and it was written that it was deleted, as the lawyers already say 'expunged', and it must not be mentioned at all that man has ever been punished. And that's why the man wasn't elected prosecutor, the second female member of the prominent Doboy businessman was appointed. So a system error, a problem in action, bias, selectivity, political addiction, dependence on the international community. Where is the independence, the independence of the judiciary, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, where is that right and justice? To talk about an institution given by the former prime minister of Republika Srpska, then from the PDP, that can be transferred to a level of BiH that is not in the BiH constitutional system is a question of whether such a report should be considered at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6095	Beriz Belkić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6096	To tell you the truth, these previous discussions have a little bit, so to speak, disrupted one concept I had when it came to my presentation, or my participation in the discussion, but here's what I'm going to try. I also understand the emotions of people who know about a specific case, etc. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'll take this report to my knowledge, and here I've received it. As for the recommendations, I haven't found many of them in this House, they are more according to the prosecutions, according to the Council of Ministers, according to the ministries, etc. But we understand the role of this Parliament, and what our people say is correct, and including initiatives that may be needed about any changes and additions to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council which is being discussed here in this report. I also support the commitment of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to continue reforms in the area of justice, and that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is ready to be involved in the process of possible future constitutional changes. So that's about a concrete act. Here are a few comments, or a few of my thoughts about what's been said here today and what we've heard. We mentioned responsibility, independence, control. So that's one, in my opinion, eternal dilemma that needs to be controlled, regardless of the current democratic practice, where this control ends and you have several different concepts. I personally don't believe in parliamentary control, to tell you the truth, because there are people sitting there, and there are politicians, etc. And that control of control eventually leads to a big brother, no longer knowing who's controlling who. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6097	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6098	No, no, for sure, you don't know who, why should I believe, Mr. Kunić, that you'll be more correct and me and we'll exercise proper control.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6099	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6100	Yes, but we are groups, parliamentary majority, etc. So I believe in control of the system, system, mechanisms and automatic action, so that the individual is disabled. So we stopped reforming the judiciary, we didn't finish that job, we simply stopped judicial reform, we didn't finish it, and it has to end. We're talking about depolitisation, so we're all politicians and officials here in our parties and through the parties came and we're also sending some messages to the political, our relationship to some, some things. So that's when it comes to that control and responsibility. The question is, there should be very careful how and in what way that thing is established, because it's always up to people, which is what our people say, so I believe more in mechanisms and systems that don't allow people to get into a situation to abuse their position. Here it is said - a system error. Now, it's practically a problem that we didn't get a rounded system and it's a problem that we have a different view of what kind of justice system we should have. Whether we need to have three, four completely separate or we need a harmonised system both vertically and horizontally connected to the state level. There are differing opinions and we have not been able to agree on this, and this has resulted in a situation in the judiciary where people are simple and insecure and unsettled. You don't know what anyone's looking for, some people admit this court, others ask for a Supreme Court, which I belong to, these people say they won't judge these and those. So we're creating an atmosphere where it's very difficult to function as the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And there are people who are susceptible, so to speak, both sensitive and vulnerable to different phenomena, different things, etc. And the last thing I want to say is, again repeating that I have received this Annual Report of Knowledge, etc., I am terribly concerned and I would like, Mr. President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, in a way, to have these two or three things that we've heard here cleared up. It's going to stay in the air and very, very harmful if we didn't know what it was about. I've heard this: that he has a 16th member that no one knows alive from where he came from. Tell me if he's got it or not, so we know, he doesn't have an open dilemma. I've heard further that someone's in charge, that you, hello, or something. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, no, here's what people say. And I heard about some money that he was receiving a man of 10,000 marks, if I understood correctly. Who's receiving? Hello, it can't stay in the air, it can't stay in the air, people! And because of that 73 is this situation, no one trusts anyone. We can't get out of this room so some of these things don't go away. And when it comes to this case in Doboj, I really join the thoughts of both Mr. Živković and Mrs. Pandurević, because it's really inconceivable that the man who killed the man, etc., but we don't know by which law the criminal, which is the law, we need to hear the other side of what was run by that man, it must have been the law. People, it's not possible that it happened without a framework for someone whose law set it that way. Let's change the law then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6102	The word has Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6103	Thank you, Chairman. First, I'm going to find out that we're discussing a report from a sacred cow. So the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is a sacred cow in the BiH system, untouchable, under the motto of judicial independence, outside the system, without any control, but not independent. This system is not independent, it is dependent only on other political centres of power, probably on those who pay 10,000 marks from black funds and there is enough evidence for all of this. So, I've heard a lot from Mr. Kunić and I'm grateful for this lecture. Its finding that palms or figs from the Adriatic coast cannot be transplanted here around Sarajevo, so that they bear fruit, that the justice system from Sweden cannot be transplanted into this area is absolutely correct. I do not dispute good intentions about judicial reform to do something that is good. And there's obviously been a mistake. You cannot in a corrupt society, in a corrupt environment that has tradition, a culture of corruption – transplant something that becomes a purpose itself and controls itself. Therefore, there must be some changes if we want to have a legal state at all. It is not true that we should not comment on the judiciary and the verdict and it is not true that the judiciary is independent of the state and society. Mr. Kunić has now explained to us that there must be no comment on the verdicts in Anglo-Saxon law. But, Mr. Kunić, and in Anglo-Saxon law, where MPs are not allowed to comment on the rulings, they have the right to comment on them. So even there's a possibility of control. And then in the British independent justice system when there's a riot on the streets of London, 1,200 people are arrested, the prime minister comes out and says, "I'm asking the courts and prosecutors to work 24 hours a day." And people work all the time and just slap them in jail. And no one there in such a democracy says - someone is putting pressure on the judiciary. So, the story of freedom of justice and independence has been abused here, she came upon a fertile ground to melt herself into her opposite. And please don't, Mr. Novković, tell us it's not your job to give an opinion about some verdict that set the killer free. So when a man kills a chicken, he has some responsibility. Anyone in traffic accidentally hooks up with someone, they're gonna do something in jail, or they're gonna be in treatment. So here we have a serious problem and this proposal to start thinking about what needs to be changed in this system is a proposal that I expect everyone will accept. 74 Another example, someone mentioned political processes. It is clear that we have political processes in this judiciary and it is clear that we have political influence but I say: probably not from this establishment against which the processes are being conducted, but from another side. If the prosecutor initiates the trial and loses its disputes in continuity, then whether it is the prosecutor's fault or the court, or the judiciary that rejects its facts. You need to make a statement about it. Legal security must be established. How do you think we feel about the SDS when no one answers to such a shameful verdict from the justice system? Do you have any idea that you've given legitimacy to other people to kill one of the members of the SDS, I'm saying it's the vice president of the SDS? Do you know that you have reduced the cost of people's lives and that you have made a selection of those subject to the law and those which are not subject to the law so that I beg you, I expect nothing here to happen, but I ask you to consider the need to change this judicial system. There's got to be some kind of justice control system civilian. This system doesn't have any legitimacy. Go back to Sweden. In Sweden, an example of corruption in the state system is that one lawyer gave two tickets for a match to an officer on the counter and she reported him, and he was punished for it. And this is cited as an example of corruption in the public system. And that society where this is corruption, and this society where there is a culture of corruption -- they can't compare and they can't have the same institutions, until this society matures to such a degree of social consciousness as it is in Sweden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6104	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6105	Well, here, at the shortest I'll only touch two, in my opinion, the most important moment, at least from my point of view. The first concerns insurance of assumptions, i.e. creating assumptions for a harmonised national balance, when it comes to the judicial system in BiH. And in that sense, I think it is necessary to prevent discrimination at the place of residence, or that it would be good if by giving the right to separate life and travel expenses, we would prevent this kind of discrimination and create these necessary assumptions... that we really have a harmonised national balance in our courts and prosecutors. That's the moment. Another perhaps more important – I am glad that Professor Kunić expressed this in his own way because it is indeed a fundamental principle that is very important – we must understand that there is no absolute independence ever and anywhere. There is a division of authorities into executive, legislative and judicial, however, this division of authorities does not mean that these three authorities are completely independent. This is impossible to achieve, and if it could be achieved, it would be counterproductive. They depend heavily on each other and are interdependent and mutually supervised, which is more important. With that in mind, the question is raised and I think Mr. Bosić is right when he said at the beginning of his presentation that we are talking about a sacred cow here. It can't exist, or it's no good that there's any body that doesn't fit anyone. There is always responsibility, only the question is whether this responsibility is transparent or non-transparent. I hope that we will all agree that this first, so transparent responsibility is much better, when it is clear who is responding to whom and with what arguments, or what methodology is being analysed and seeking responsibility, examines responsibility. The direct consequence of the existing situation in which this non-transparent responsibility exists, i.e. the apparent lack of any responsibility, are unfortunately these highly justified doubts that political belongings can often depend on whether someone is being processed and when there is no reason for it and also whether someone will not be processed and when there are reasons for it. Seventy-five, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6106	The word has the honourable MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6107	I'm sorry, I always have a little technical issues. Mr. Chairman, my dear friends, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, something has moved me to rise up a little and take a word here. Carefully following – perhaps much better than those of you who see, for I listen to see – I was amazed that you did not respond to a strange finding that was made by our introduction. Namely, it's about the next one. He provided one piece of information that if I'm not mistaken and you correct me, from 2002 to today, it's more of a changed judge and prosecutor than since '46. the year until 2002. If I was wrong, please correct me. That's a fragrant piece of information for me. And I'm sorry, and it would be good if, in this report, at least some small analysis of all of this was in what was the biggest reason for the shift of these people. So, is it corruption, is it bribery, is it something third, fourth, fifth or sixth, that we know what it's about. Because in this, as I tend to say, land of impossible possibilities anything is possible. The largest, let's say, legislative, so executive power is just based on the judiciary of a country. Watch out, the ancient word law, came from a human vocabulary, and today we have the right, justice, justice, justice, justice, justice, and so on. It's all based on that basic beginning. We're slowly entering a gap when it comes to the institutions we're talking about today, which is our so-called. The prosecution and our judiciary. The problem is in people's heads, in the mental context and psychology. In fact, a large part of these people belong to a little older generations. A terrible and important difference is between the socialist system and the notion of justice and justice in one country, such as ex Yugoslavia and this Dayton BiH. The great influence on our judicial authorities is, of course, that court that is the most painful and interesting for us, the Court of The Hague. He's based on what's called. Anglo-Saxon law, right. Gradually, we also apply some parts of it, although we have not yet been able to do so. In civilized countries, and especially in the West, there is one, we were just talking about accountability and independence, is it, a little complex issue – there is something called the Justice Ministry and the Minister of Justice. You know, the principle of subordination must exist. No independence and no untouchable, perhaps the famous Eliot Nes and he was not untouchable, but so called. And in America, someone mentioned if I wasn't wrong about my predecessors. Well, that's what we're going to find very difficult, especially with our Balkan mentality, especially when it comes to the idea of justice and justice. In fact, there's a phenomenon that's only in America. Someone might mention it on the way. The U.S. Supreme Court has something no one else has. Namely, choosing judges in the Supreme Court is a lifetime. And there's one thing that's interesting, the American Senate or the American Congress can end, be careful, this is all relative, so they can abolish the Supreme Court, but even the American president can't replace any judge in the Supreme Court. Well, if that were with us, you could think about what would happen. Let me tell you another thing. This problem that bothers us, when it comes to these problems that individuals have raised, concerns the population that I belong to. I base it on my famous saying that every society is as much as it takes care of its weakest members. In the era of violent violence in postpartum BiH in which it happens daily in our human lives, where people like 76 are what I, the most unprotected, have to worry about this report and this kind of discussion I've heard today. So, I fear for my life and for everything I am. Is someone really protecting me in this country, whether prosecutors and judges are capable of punishing those who try to threaten me and not just me, but all the people who belong to this weakest population, like old people, like disabled people like me, etc.? That's what I'm afraid of. And, in the end, when we talk about the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, you watch one thing, which we give the right to sue and judge?- I'm sorry. I will not speak of Nasrudin-hodža-hodji and that famous Kadija sue you, the cadiya judge you, it is overcome. I have an old wise philosophical saying that many of you haven't even heard of, but it's a reason for you to think carefully about it and for it to be mine, let's say, the end of all this, not to be long. It says, "The power is right, and the power is right." Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6108	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6109	The Honorable Chairman, so there is no key here that I am now because this is not a replica to Mr. Bašić, you should know right away, but I do not have the right to reply to Mr. Novković because he does not answer to anyone, he is not a member of Parliament, nothing, he is here as a guest. There's a recommendation here in this book for some shines...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6110	Who are you replicating to at the end?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6111	Replica, here's how I'm going to ask Mr. Novković questions. Well, I said there's no replica of Mr. Novković. You made recommendations, and here's a recommendation. Have you replaced any prosecutor who, say, lost five cases? Have you cited in this report how damaged BiH's budget will be to compensate people who have been freed from prisons, and ask us for money to increase by not knowing which items? Do you know how much inaction you will have in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, holding such prosecutors and judges who lose cases, damage BiH's budget? I don't know either, but it's going to be millions of damages already. Will you personally answer for the fact that you have not replaced such a prosecutor and judge, and you have an unlimited authority that does not have a Parliament? Who are you going to answer to? You're not going to replace anyone, or you're not going to replace them. And he damaged BiH's budget several million. There will be a process still, slowly, everyone will complain, as will Mirko Šarović, who is absolutely right, who you held there for nothing. Here I am not defending Mirko Šarović, but it was there. And I don't know what other processes they're going to be, everyone's going to be complaining now. Now, will you answer? Well, you can't make up for the money, you don't have it to get back into the budget, and we don't have it in the budget. So what do we do? Well, you're so independent, good job! This shows you're independent. Your institution, I don't mean, don't ever look at each other, but the institution that chose itself, from somewhere out of the sky, and when all of these come to collect, I don't know if I'm going to be an MP then, but it's going to go for years, it's going to be someone, it's going to be my child, and it's going to be back to what you've been holding with your care prosecutors who have lost the cases, not professional, people are closing down, and now, normally, people with the right to seek compensation. And who will pay for their mental pain, divorce from the family, separation from children, destroyed lives and countless other things that are not in the separate High Court and Prosecutorial Council and in the Prosecutor's Office. You're playing with people's fates?- I'm sorry. You question 77 survival families, society, you bring everything! Find me one name you've replaced, the prosecutor, who's lost four cases and locked people up. You give me names, don't give me 1,326, you've received, I'd take 4,000 if I had your option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6112	Replica, Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6113	Well, I'll do it for a while. This is where we heard heavy discussions and heavy accusations, not only on the post of the High Judicial Council but generally on the judiciary. And here I think, on behalf of the debaters from the SDS Club, and I suppose that applies to all the other debaters who have been critical, I stress that in the judicial system certainly the vast majority of judges and prosecutors and staff are honest people who do their job in a fair way. But it's obvious that there's protection for those who don't do the job the way they should, and that's where you're responsible. And here, what I was saying, I was talking about a systemic error, about the need to introduce some kind of social control, and even the justice system -- the lack of political interference in the judiciary, but some kind of must be, because this is a system that has separated itself from itself. So here I would like, I suppose, on behalf of everyone, to once again confirm that we all think that the vast majority of these people who work in the judiciary are doing a hard and responsible job doing it right and doing it honestly and with the best intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6114	Ambassador Niko Lozančić signed up for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests, so I must say that in the most part of the debate on this very sensitive subject today, I liked it very much, and I think that these discussions essentially confirm the meaning of discussing such reports, even when we only take them into knowledge. A lot of things have been said and I think that if I've seen well so far, the only conclusion on the trail, it seems to me, most of the debates. Maybe we all don't have the same idea of judicial independence. Maybe we don't all have the same idea of the efficiency of the judiciary. What's that supposed to mean? Maybe we don't even have professionalism in the judiciary, maybe every one of us is experiencing it in his own way. I agree with the assessment, here, which through the replica the distinguished representative Bosić pointed out, and I don't think we should forget it, and I think it should be in the first place. I am absolutely convinced that most, and this is the vast majority of judges and prosecutors in BiH's courts and prosecutors, are absolutely professional and absolutely willing to be completely independent of anyone, including us in this House. I belong to the category of those who certainly support this setting to be independent of us in Parliament, but it is not good if they are dependent on someone else. Who has much less legitimacy, who has a much less right to interfere in the independence of the judiciary than we who are directly elected by citizens, so whatever we are here. 78 I would hate for this debate to be personalised and brought down to criticism or, I don't know, by giving its grades on the chairman and members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. But I'm going to agree with everyone who's found out, I think the largest number of debates have gone that way, that it's a major malfunction in the system. And I'm going to believe that we're going to support the conclusion that we're going to try to change the situation in this area, and we can only change it by changing the legal rules, that is, through this Law on High Judgment and Prosecutor's Council, and then perhaps assessing it through some other laws. As a contribution to the need to do so, here's a few things. You've already troubled the membership of one of the members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and I don't want to, it's really problematic because there's no place in the law, I don't want to explain it further, but there's something in the law, and that's what's the other problem with me. Among the current members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council - who are not there by their own fault, to understand each other, because the law so provides - there are six judges, if I have counted well, five prosecutors and four lawyers or lawyers. That this isn't about a rough conflict of interest? You can now think of a lawyer who chooses judges who will judge himself in the proceedings in which he is party to proceedings or a lawyer who chooses himself prosecutors who opposes the party in his proceedings. Well, that's nowhere to be found, no matter who's doing it. So here's how there's nothing else, that there's no other defect in that system, I think this thing is simply inappropriate. Judges and prosecutors are completely two sides. The court must be independent, and prosecutors are party to proceedings, fully equal to lawyers in the process. So, please, let them choose, and there must be an institution, several colleagues have mentioned here, which will call for incompetent, corrupt, irresponsible prosecutors who produce indiscriminately and without any responsibility processes that cost dearly, and do not have the effect that should be achieved, means that it functions in full capacity by the rule of law. So there must be some kind of responsibility. We've never seen her before. And if we don't go further in the list of reasons, I think there's a serious reason, here's to doing our job, someone said, and I agree: part of the responsibility for this situation is more up to us here than in the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. The High Judicial and Prosecution Council only enforces a law that is in force. So we can't, they're not the ones changing the law. And we can change the law, if we appreciate that there is a defect in the system, through most of the debates we heard and I also think that it is, then let's support this conclusion that we form a working group, interresor, however you want, means experts from both the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and from Parliament and the Council of Ministers, all interested that we have both a professional and an effective judiciary and maximum independence in such a way that it does not depend on any policy or individual interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6116	I'm closing the debate, or, Mr. Novković, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6117	Dear President, honourable MPs, I am prepared to answer all the questions you have asked here regarding the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the work of the courts and prosecutors in BiH, with your permission that I need a little more time, and I will try to be as precise as possible, more precise and shorter. 79 I do not belong to the category of those people, i.e. the judge, who represents the situation in both the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, both in the courts and in the BiH prosecutors' offices, that the situation is ideal and there are no certain failures and mistakes. It is very difficult to secure the work of courts and prosecutors, not only in BiH but in all legal systems without certain errors and failures. That's what it was and that's what it's gonna be. Only you, like this respected home, and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and judicial institutions, should find mechanisms, pass such laws as little as possible to allow subjectivity in both the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, as well as in courts and in the prosecutions. On this occasion, I would like to point out one fact, which is that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is functioning, has a legal basis for its operation under the Agreement between the Government of Republika Srpska, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Council of Ministers, which was signed in March, where certain powers were transferred to a body called the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. On this basis, the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council was also passed in this House. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has not passed the law, works and works and must act under the law. Otherwise, if he doesn't comply with that law, he can come under the influence of responsibility. We from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, myself from three to four years ago, and we have now prepared amendments on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I am quite sure that you will soon consider whether the changes, whether the new law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I think, will discuss this structural dialogue on BiH's judicial institutions. You've brought a lot of hard words to both the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the courts and the prosecution. I don't agree with certain things, I'll try to explain it. There are situations and facts where you have or are not sufficiently informed about certain items, about some very important and important facts. You have ignored one fact that the BiH judiciary and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council have been operating since 2003, or 2004, in a very complex and difficult political environment, to meet with extremely difficult and complex cases. It is a legally complex state, which is completely familiar to you, which has also caused a complex legal, complex judicial system that is not available in the region and is not in Europe either. Namely, we have four levels of BiH courts, and at BiH level. We have the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office acting under the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH. At the level of the entities, we have the judiciary in Republika Srpska acting under the Law on Courts in the RS, then on the basis of the RS Constitution and on the basis of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. It is the same situation when it comes to the Federation of BiH judiciary. When it comes to the Brcko District judiciary, there's a simpler situation. It's based on the Law of Courts and on the Statute of the Brcko District where there is two degrees, so we have a basic court that is universal to all jurisdiction, and we have the Court of Appeal, as a second-degree court that is universal again for full jurisdiction. On the other hand, we have a Constitutional Court of BiH that decides in its appeal and, based on the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. We don't have a synchronised judicial system in BiH. It is very difficult in this way to ensure uniformity of court practice. A large number of very complex war crimes cases being prosecuted at the level of BiH, the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and at the level of entity justice, as well as at the Brcko District level. We have an extremely large number of complex cases when it comes to the return of property, we have an economy that has suffered a breakdown, bankruptcy, liquidation, closed factories, hundreds of thousands of workers who have lost their jobs. We have three categories of people with disabilities, and most of it when they exercise their rights, it is resolved through the judiciary in the entire BiH territory. 80 I ask you as very responsible people, do not ignore the fact – hundreds and hundreds of thousands in BiH are in six or seven years, since this reform has been resolved extremely, extremely complex cases where there is no known court practice in our environment. I want to answer some specific questions now, if I'm able, and what I'm not able to do, we're going to provide written answers. When it comes to honourable MP Jovičić, he asked several questions of his own. I'll start with why they're not suspended, or resolved prosecutors who lose three or four disputes. I'm proud, and I'm very proud of it, because someone's been in prison for a year or a year or a half, and the court releases him very bravely and boldly and says this man didn't commit a crime. So it's about very high-quality judges and very high-quality justice. Let me tell you, you know how it used to be: it used to be covered by his detention and found guilty. And we broke up that practice six years ago. In all judicial systems – in Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Austria – there are cases where prosecutors lose cases and suspects are released. It's common knowledge, and that's very good for me. Because at a time when a suspect is there are certain standards to determine detention, to isolate, to provide evidence, and when there is evidence, or to provide quality evidence, the only solution is to free the court, and that's civilization, and that's civilized justice. We don't have prosecutors to the extent that they lose cases that go beyond a common practice both in our own country and in the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6118	So whoever pays compensation, I ask you, don't answer, I'm not in court.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6119	Mr. Jovičić, I'll ask you, you'll get the word, and now let Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6120	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6121	Mr. Jovičić, Mr. Novković has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6122	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6123	You'll get your word after his exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6124	When it comes to damages for convicted persons, it certainly is in all legal systems and in all countries to bear and pay the state, which is why there is a state. It's far better to pay for the damage than to have an innocent man in jail. I said it and I said it again. No more cover for the holding. 81 On your question that the entire public is very negatively in the BiH judiciary, several polls were about the public's trust in the judiciary, there is no deviation from the former, and there is no deviation as it is in other countries. I mean, I've been in the judiciary for 35 years, always someone with a court ruling is unhappy. He who loses the dispute is dissatisfied. He who wins the dispute is pleased. But what is worrying is that in some cases, especially when it comes to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the public is divided into BiH. And that, and for us, as the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and certainly for you, it should be disturbing. Both the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in this direction, through certain reforms of the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and it is known, when it comes to war crimes, that the work of both the court and the prosecutor's office, as well as the instructions in the structural discussion, can be better solved when it comes to the application of material laws, etc. that the public in that direction, at least if she's unhappy, will not be divided. I want to answer the question of the MPs very specifically, and I don't know if it's Mrs or Miss, the distinguished Aleksandra Pandurević, and the honourable MP Mladen Bosić, since their question comes down to the same... and it's mostly one case, one murder, I won't mention the names in Doboj. I am like the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council fully, perhaps best in BiH, familiar with the case. However, I will present to you only what I have the authority to do, which is that it is murder, that the first-degree court's acquittal, that the second-degree court, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, has confirmed an acquittal. If I had my authority, I would very much like to give you my opinion on this case in a very objective and professional way, and for that I should also have the authority and two hours, because to the smallest details I can analyze without any notes and all the details from that subject. However, what I can tell you about this case, the Doboj District Attorney's Office had the opportunity to apply for the protection of the legality of the Supreme Court of RS. For which reasons and why it did not invest, I do not have the authority and do not know whether it was the basis or not to invest, but it is evident that this claim for the protection of legality has not been made. I would be very happy and proud that the prosecution had the possibility, unfortunately there is no legal opportunity to appeal to the BiH Constitutional Court because it does not belong to the prosecution, but belongs only to the suspect, or accused. However, I do not sleep because of this case either, but the High Court and Prosecutor's Council under the law and nowhere in the world can a strong verdict change, and that you too choose judges and decide on their responsibility, and you as a Parliament, one of the most legislative bodies, could not change that decision. However, it all depends on your conclusion that you will make to this House today on this matter. You may refer that conclusion to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. What we as the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, not the D.A.'s office, can and what we're authorized to do, we'll do and we'll do. And we can't do that and we can't do that unless you have a certain conclusion like this body that you can't handle. And if you take it, then we will do everything within our powers and do it. I, as a judge, ruled 52 murders. I had four acquittals. So it can be a liberating verdict when it comes to murder. But personally, I wish there was an appeal that this decision at the Constitutional Court could be reconsidered, and I would also be glad if you reach a certain conclusion to the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and it will do everything within its powers. It's true that you filed complaints against the D.A.'s office. However, the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office cannot change its mind. There's nothing special he can do. I'm also in the middle of those complaints. There's another complaint that's been filed about this case. But 82 can be analyzed. The decision cannot be amended. A request for renewal may be submitted if a new fact not known at the time of the execution of the offence is found. And I want to tell you openly, a request can also be made to repeat the proceedings if it is established that the judge or prosecutor who took part in the decision, or the judge, has committed a certain crime. There's really nothing more I can say about this case because I don't have the authority. If a certain conclusion is reached by this House to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I will present my opinion at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council on the case and say what other members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council have the right to do. As for Mr. Mladen Bosić, controlling the verdicts, changing the verdicts, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is not authorized to do so and cannot, by law, control the verdicts, then you could control the verdicts and then in fact create a total legal uncertainty. You know who that right belongs to. He has a first-degree court, has a second-degree court, regular legal medicines, emergency legal medicines, appeals to the BiH Constitutional Court, and therefore has a court in Strasbourg, is again limited to human rights violations. I want to answer to Vice President Živković when it comes to the D.A.'s Attorney General in Doboj who, I forgot his name and name, was elected district attorney in Doboj, and I think I contacted Mr. Živković on the phone or with someone else about the case. So it was the prosecutor who met all the criteria for selecting the district attorney at Doboj's District Attorney's Office, but he was convicted. It is true that this court ruling has also been deleted. However, there is a rule that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council must follow. We don't check or have the legal possibility of anyone being convicted, whether a criminal case is being conducted, etc., but the candidate is obliged to write and indicate whether he's been convicted, whether or not he's been convicted or not. If it is determined after his election that he did not state that fact, that is the reason for the resolution. I've personally engaged in it, so I'm thinking full-time for two months. And he's not alone, there were more cases like that at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Dear Professor and MP Mr. Kunić Petar did not ask a question but in one theoretical way, he commented on the choice, the composition of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, as it is in BiH, as it is in other countries, as it is in other judicial systems, etc. I don't have time now and neither do you, and I would be very happy to comment on all this with distinguished professor and MP Kunić Petar. I am in favour of finding the best solutions for the organisation of the BiH judiciary. But you have to bear in mind one fact that we are a very complex legal state and that this is caused by other institutions and the judicial system to be... so complex. It's a matter of four lawyers at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. That's right. There are four lawyers... and this stems again from our legally complex state. Namely, one lawyer is elected, i.e. the Bar Association points to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of the Federation of BiH, the second is directed by the RS Attorney's Chamber. The other two lawyers who came to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, one appointed by your Parliament, and the other appointed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. With the circumstances which are lawyers, I have personally stated in my draft amendments to the law that I cannot be lawyers and judges appointed by the Council or by the parliament of BiH, and that one term of office of four years is appointed by a lawyer from the RS and the other by the Federation, and that we will then have only one lawyer in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, as is the case in other legal systems, or states. And I don't think there's a single court council, a council where 83 doesn't have a lawyer's representative, because they participate and they represent, as lawyers, the judiciary. Mrs. Majkić – when it comes to the right to object to the choice of judges and prosecutors. I agree, I think, and I will suggest that, and you will decide, that there should be a right to object in a second-degree procedure when it comes to the choice of prosecutors and judges, and it has some legal systems. I spoke to Mr. Mirela in Banja Luka, and that's his opinion. When it comes to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in the election of judges and prosecutors, it does not consult the presidents of the courts and the chief prosecutors, it mainly consults but only on the circumstances of whether a civilian judge is needed, whether a guilty judge is needed, whether a judge who works outsiders, an executive procedure is needed, etc. And we regularly consult. My proposal was not to be the presidents of the courts and not the chief prosecutors, because an individual could be subjective, but to the College of Judges and the College of Prosecutors and to ask them to deliver everything, the names and names of the candidates who applied, and to give their opinion on who they think should be the judge in that court and who the prosecutor, and also the opinion of the institution from which the judge and the prosecutor came from, so for a time we asked the Justice Department for an opinion, but they gave up and did not give up their opinion. The High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Zahid Kovač was appointed by this parliament, as far as I know, and I am quite sure there is no case against him in the matter of war crimes. When it comes to the BiH Court of Justice Begić Redžib, he was never a member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. He was a judge 90 years ago in the District Court, or the High Court of Zenica, who was the judge of the County Court in Banja Luka for four years, and I was his president. It's about an extremely professional and trained judge. He was in the District Court one of the best judges. And that's why he was elected to the RS Supreme Court where he was almost three years old. He was an extremely good judge. And now he's the judge of the BiH Court. I've never heard of him being prosecuted for war crimes. If anyone has evidence for both of us or for any of the judges and prosecutors that they have been initiated and the proceedings being conducted, I would ask you, it is in the interest of all of us, to inform the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and we will determine it in our own way and verify it. And what's left of it, according to my observations -- it's true that the law has prescribed 15 members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, that's true. There's a 16th member, an international member. It's not in the law to have 16 members. Nothing stands in the law of an international member of the Council. And I would ask you to address the OHR with that question because he was appointed by the High Representative. So, as President of the Council and only the Council in that situation, there's nothing we can do. It's the same thing when it comes to international judges. And we, when asked for international judges two years ago and something, gave our proposal as the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which was fully accepted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and fully accepted by the High Representative. International judges both in the Court and the D.A. are working in a completely reduced number. Their mandate runs until 31.12.2012. However, some judges are already leaving and their seats are filled with domestic judges. I would finally ask you to visit the Council, and come to the Council, and ask for all the information you need, because I think you have information, so it may even come from a professional community, because there are a number of judges and prosecutors who don't like the High Court and Prosecutor's Council at all. You can tell for what reasons. Because there's a lot of pressure on work, on work and on responsibility. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6125	Mr. Novković, I'd like to ask you to bring the end, here's what we've really given you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6126	I'll bring an end to it with only one sentence. I thank you for a very open discussion. I have personally heard and heard from you today and found out about the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, otherwise, of BiH's judicial institutions. I will present this at the first next session, which is 7 September, to all members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and everything you deliver in the form of a conclusion to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we will do everything and do within our jurisdiction. And I ask you in a certain way to change the picture of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council a little bit, but only on the basis of the arguments. Thank you so much again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6127	I thank Mr. Novković. Mr. Živković reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6128	If we cannot support the Annual Report, we can at least not be the last president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, yet MPs in this House should give the last word. Namely, there is much here that we have said you have confirmed, and especially by your last finding that there is a 16th member in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and thus confirmed my last idea that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is dependent on the international community. Something I didn't mention, which is what you touched one example that I cited about the D.A.'s prosecutor in Doboj – it's the insatiableness of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Namely, this man, a decent man and an honest prosecutor should have been, and he paid for the lack of practice of the High Court and Prosecution Council. His example showed that this practice was not his case. No Niko at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council knew what was going on when someone was deleted from the court records and where it was written not to mention anything, whether he had to write it in his reply. And then we went to a member of the RS Constitutional Court of Mr. Ivošević, asked him what practice it was, and he wrote to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that it should not be done, and the man delivered the document and was re-scheduled. Where there's elasticity and where there's practice when there's no practice, when there's no rule that a man knows how to fill a questionnaire, and in his case, the whole system is broken. Now, that's that insatiableness that had to be made in mutual agreements, and that's why we talked on the phone, not to insinuate some of my people, but to ask what kind of practice it is and is it okay for a man of honor to get hurt because of that practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6129	My colleague Ljubić, since it's a break. _________(?) 85... since I need it. How much do you want to take a break? __________(?) Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, we have used time in the MPs' Club to draw up a conclusion based on the suggestion given in the final statement by the chairman of the High Prosecutorial and Judicial Council, and in this respect we propose the following conclusion: 'By reason of the agenda item Annual report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2010, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Representatives' House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to analyse the course of the trial that led to the release of the trial in the case of the murder of Branislav Garić and to provide the information to the House of Representatives of the Assembly of BiH.' That I don't explain the reasons because there's really been enough discussion, and I don't think there's any reason for me to give any further reasons right now. The conclusion can eventually be corrected if colleagues feel that there is something else to be added. But I think this is very concise and very precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6134	Aleksandra Pandurović. Is it a replica of these conclusions or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6135	In the meantime, during this break, and during this whole discussion here, I was invited by Mr. Garić's wife and asked to make an announcement about the false claims made here by Mr. Živković, who mentioned something, and I am sorry that he is not here, but because of the public who may be following this, I must say that because of some paid texts which were again intended to cover this liberating verdict were made in some media untruth about the property of the late Branislav Garić. That's why his family was exposed, his children, the threats, they called them home, they asked for money. Branisalv Garić acquired everything he had before he entered politics. When he entered politics, he acquired an apartment that he bought on loan. Everyone who lives in Doboj knows that 86 of his family lives in an apartment where they lived before the war and I think it's very ugly to talk about someone like that, to share unverified, incorrect information. The second thing, the SDS has proposed in the National Assembly a law on the investigation of the origins of all politicians since '92. to this day and start from party leaders, Mladen Bosić, Borislav Bojić, etc. So to Milorad Dodik and why not to you, Mr. Živković? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6136	Replica, colleague Milorad Živković, first deputy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6137	I apologize for not being at the beginning of a replica that was clearly directed to me. And of course, at the beginning of that discussion I said that I think it's well understood from most of those who were well-intentioned but must separate two things. One thing is the Doboy murder issue, and the other is quite another, the issue of the actions of the judiciary and the prosecution for the last 10 years in Doboy. About whether or not I said unverified things, I said that's what they say in Doboy. I'd like the judges and prosecutors to check it out in Doboj, and start with me and you and anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6138	I'm closing the debate within this agenda. Replica, I apologize, Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6139	I don't know how to take this right now as a replica and a debate, either way, it won't be longer than the time foreseen for replication. But after hearing the answers of the esteemed High Court and Prosecutorial Council President, Mr Novković, who, I am convinced, have given me a completely honest and open mind, I am nothing more calm about making a state, neither the BiH Court nor the Prosecutor's Office in BiH, because from the legislative and executive authorities we cannot interfere in the work of the judiciary, and the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council seems to be able to do anything. So if that's what we're going to hold on to, then there's really no reason to be at peace, because it's one of the most important areas of social life, actually life in one country at all. And so I think that, with a few words here, we should look back at this report, and even these answers, and I still think that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is the beginning and end of the quality of the judiciary and the rule of law, and that from that it should begin, as is the key to the quality of higher education, registration policy and procedures, registration and the choice of teachers and procedures, and everything further comes from that. All of this continues to arise, so is here – the key to the success of the judiciary is the choice of judges and prosecutors. And that's why the most attention needs to be paid to this issue and I certainly won't look back at all things here, but I have the right to call this a replica, because one question has been left unaccounted for. It may not have been explicitly imposed here, and this was the debate of Mr Franjičević, who made it clear that there is not one of the most judicial statements in BiH, excluding the Constitutional Court, so the Court and the Prosecutor's Office – this regional and national balanced system. Because according to my information, neither the court nor the prosecution has any Hrvat from the county with the Croatian majority. Explanations can be different, including that people do not have enough benefits for a separate life, for accommodation, etc., etc. 87 and they don't decide to move to Sarajevo. That explanation doesn't stand. So, you need to find a way, set aside the funds, if that's the only reason, and here I want to believe that it is that they're not in these institutions, and then you can ask all kinds of questions about it, etc., etc. And today there's been a lot of talk about political, so to speak, motivated processes, indictments, even judgments, I'll be here, I dare say that, and then we can also speak politically determined justice. Our esteemed colleague, formerly a member of the executive authority, has been prosecuted, tried and convicted at the Court of BiH. The same court broke up, declared himself incompetent. The case rested, rested and reactivated at a politically sensitive and violent moment, and this process was transferred to the Cantonal Court of Sarajevo because it was the headquarters of the institution in which he worked in Sarajevo. Does that mean that we are all here together, hired, whether in federal authorities, whether in the state bodies, or in Parliament, in fact, in the extreme case, if someone decides: it has been extradited, under the alleged signs, to the Cantonal Court of Sarajevo. Therefore, many things here need to be changed. I also want to say here that I believe and I am convinced of the moral and professional dignity of the largest number of judges and prosecutors in BiH. But the practice of some prosecutions and courts, in the end, brings me a little concern that the courts and prosecutors in the future wouldn't accidentally turn the process into an escalation with political insatiables. And that's why, of all the things I've heard today, it's actually worth the attention and support to me, I think that's the conclusion, fellow counterpart Pandurević's initiative, which is about changing the law and on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and then.....in the area of justice, because we simply have to change things in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6140	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Replica is sent to a colleague, Pandurević. Please, dear fellow Members, you're performing very correctly here, but in the future, you're not finishing or starting. I'm not Milorad Dodik's lawyer, you said yourself you have a club, you have MPs at the National Assembly of the RS. Get rid of all that stuff over there. You do not transfer any jurisdiction to the RS or any debate from that assembly here, because it does not matter. So you started a good story, which I disagree with again, by your party president, which I will not mention in any context, except as a fellow MP. But you ended it effectively: that you suggested the adoption of the law from your president to Milorad Dodik. Don't use that rhetoric anymore, because he's not a member of this parliament, I'm not his lawyer, everything you have to resolve in the National Assembly of the RS, start initiatives that fall into your mind and don't fall. But this is the BiH Parliament and that in such ranges and in such a context, which is a clear association, you do not mention the name of the president of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats Milorad Dodik. I tell you that as a friend, then as a colleague. And here's what I'm saying: don't mention your president, Mladen Bosić, in the context of the party president, but as a colleague in this House. Here I have nothing against him or as colleagues, but I salute him.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6142	In 2014, it's not that far. Aleksandra Pandurević has a word. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Jovičić, I am an MP in this House and you cannot tell me what to say. I'm taking out what I think I should say. As for the law on the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, the SDS proposed it in the National Assembly, and when you already care so much about examining the origins of the politicians' assets, why you did not support it in the National Assembly of the RS. I just wanted to remind you that your party was against investigating the origins of the political assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6144	I'm closing the debate. I'm opening the ninth item of the agenda: "Ad." Nine. 2010 BHRT Work and Business Report The board of directors of RTV BiH is 4. 5. In 2011, the adoption report, the competent Commission for Transport and Communications, delivered 22. Seven. 2011 The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. The Commission suggests to Dom that it adopts the conclusion: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives estimates that the key problem in the operation of RTV BiH is management." At the 7th session of the House, held on 27. Seven. In 2011, the conclusion was adopted: "The 2010 report on the work and business of BHRT is delayed and the committee in charge is tasked with systematicing the proposed conclusions and proposing consistent conclusions to this House." The conclusions were proposed by Dušanka Majkić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Ismeta Dervoz and Denis Bećirović. The Transport and Communications Commission is 24. 8. 2011 delivered Opinion and proposed to the House the adoption of the following conclusions: '1. Members of the Supervisory Board of RTV BiH, to which the mandate has expired, should continue their work in full capacity until the appointment of new members, and no later than 31. 12. 2011 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications to re-open a competition as soon as possible for the selection of members of the BiH Steering Board from the Serb and Croatian peoples, and in line with the deadline set out in the previous conclusion. 89 3. The Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives believes it is necessary to hold a thematic joint session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses dedicated to the current state in the Public TV System of BiH with the participation of all relevant institutions." There's no discussion here. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6149	Thank you. So, let me repeat from today's opening session, and that BiH had a deficit of 6.5 billion in the last year, and over the last five years, 38 billion and 108 million we had a trade deficit. Over the last year, export coverage was 52.1% in the total trade. From which agricultural production, i.e. agriculture, tariff from 1 to 24. We had imports of 2 billion 560.93 million KM and exports of 613.8 million KM, i.e. export coverage of only 23.97%. It is true that BiH is not a majority agrarian country, it is true that before the war, BiH was at a disadvantage when it comes to agriculture and agricultural production. However, there is no developed country that has not developed its agriculture. And there's also no developed country in the world just to live off agriculture. Therefore, it is purely protectionist activity and there is a government of pure protectionism and agriculture that needs subsidies. So, you can't talk... let's go to the farm and we'll become a rich country. No, I don't. But food production is strategic, i.e. vital, and national interest of every country. And that is why we need to pay great attention to this resource, and agricultural production we know that the input to other industrial production, or processing, and we know what stability means in the food of a country, which means when one country, 91 in particular, feels very good in these current crises, so the EU when the crisis comes, so every country turns to itself, closes the borders and takes care of itself in some way. I am saying this because the total area of BiH is 5,124,000 ha, of which 2,567,000 ha of agricultural land, or 50%, is 1,589.000 ha of arable land and 1,020,000 ha of ora. So 90% is private property, so it was before the war, data that spoke, and it didn't change significantly, 4% was cooperative, and 6% was state. Today, we have in BiH data that 492,000 ha or 48,85% of the working area has been unprocessed. So half of the working area we don't do, and we have almost 2 billion deficits in agricultural production, or almost 30% of the total deficit is in agricultural production alone. One of the statistics that tells us that in the agriculture sector – hunting, forestry and fishing – we now officially have 17,737 registered employees, so 17,000 and some registered employees, and the data we have is that we have about 500 thousand agricultural holdings. So we have a totally gray economy, people work in black, disorganized, and that's why we have this condition. To improve this condition, so I suggest three things. It is likely that the Council of Ministers will not be formed soon, as much as I have information that this Parliament, which is left with the law in a month or two, will end everything and neither will we have anything to do and most likely that we will turn into executive and legislative power, that we will propose laws and bring and give to the execution of those concerned and therefore I suggest and now to the Council of Ministers who are in the technical mandate to determine... things. First, the protection of agricultural production, the food industry, the protection, we have an example of the EU that accurately regulates protection and how this mechanism works. Unfortunately, because of our negligence with the EU, we also had liberalisation until 2010. We're running out of time. The Stabilisation and Association Treaty is now in force. And recently our farmers who had exports of plums paid for it, so we had, the EU charged 10 euros per 100 kilos of levies, not with ours, not with the EU's fault, but with our guilt that we weren't up-to-date and did it. The second thing is how to get bigger incentives, because now in BiH we have an exemption for support in the agricultural sector 44 KM per ha of agricultural land or 61 KM per ha of an equivalent farm area, or 32 euros now we have a hafforded area of incentives. And in the EU, which we have to go to tomorrow, which is where we are already opening our borders, the EU average is 250 euros. It is true that they also have protectionism among countries and somewhere between 100 euros and up to 500 euros in Greece, and 100 euros in Estonia has incentives for arable land. So the smallest country has almost three times, 300 percent greater incentives on arable land. So, since we're going to raise funds for these incentives because we have to do it, there's no other choice, we can't close the borders, we're going to be integrated, we have to go into integration because it's only realistic and we expect it to be. By changing fiscal policy, as we have said here, it can be done, taxation of luxury, redundancy. One proposal, I say, is that my suggestion is to make a two-foot VAT, so 7% for basic life supplies and 22% for the rest, and some of the resources could be set aside for incentive. The other part of the funds is taxation of unprocessed land. So, taxing unprocessed land: if we introduced 100 KM per ha, and the average household is 2 ha, so there would be no average of 200 Marks per year of untreated land – they would get only 49.2 million. Here, I'll bring the end, and the map of the path that was done, which was done, and it's not finished. Here we have not received in Parliament, I have seen and heard that the Committee for Foreign Trade and Customs has received this Roadmap, and this is about exporting products of animal origin to the EU. So Croatia is going to the EU half a year ago, so we are informed that Croatia will start to apply it a year ago, because it has to be done urgently next year, this road map, and we need to react urgently and secure all resources in the Office of Veterinary Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to meet this road map, 92
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6150	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6151	Because if we don't, we're losing 54 million exports, so almost 10% of our exports will be destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6152	Thank you. Replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6153	Well, I'm grateful to my colleague Lijanović for this information, the data, although it was a little far and wide, but good. Yes, we can if it's an announcement of the candidacy again that we understand it both from that side. But I have to remember that we heard it from that party in the previous term. It used to be exhaustive and fun, but in the meantime, there was a small matter that the Federation party had left behind the agricultural portfolio. And I expected to hear it go there today, what's going on. However, you've told us a theory but you haven't told us what your people are doing in practice right now. So, as I hear from the media that you're sharing big money for subsidies there (I can't ask my colleagues from the SDA, because they can't even think to ask, at least that's how you talk), that's exactly your cookie and I'd like to hear from experience how your party manages that big resource there because you got the chance, and that's nice. Those who can't ask are probably doing it badly so it belongs to you to distribute it that way, so I expected a practical approach next to this theoretical one. So, you got a chance, now that's where your party runs, as I hear it, you don't ask anybody, nor who can ask you anything. With that resource, you share a little by the grandmother, a little by the uncles. Okay, there's probably some reason, I guess some criteria exist, no matter what these guys may not know. And I expected you to give what you're dealing with, how it's going, how in practical terms, we've been listening to theories for four years and you've got a chance, here. And to tell us, I was really interested in it, and how you did it so that these guys couldn't ask you, and that one little party gets such a big resource, and that it manages it, maybe it's quality, I won't say. But if we've been listening to all this theory stuff, I've loved hearing that part about how it's really going, because it's a revolutionary thing. After all this time, a small party was given the opportunity to manage that resort in the Federation. And I really expected, I mean, I don't expect me on the other side of the line, I know that these others aren't smart to ask anything, but here I was really interested in what's new about your party's experience for the past few months as you manage 60, 70 million marks, yet it's not a little money, that one small party divides everything. Well, I think it'd be interesting if they passed on those experiences to us to hear... if that's enough of them, is it, I mean, in what way, what kind of problems they're facing and all that? That's what I was talking about. It's a practical thing. I'd really like to hear that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6154	It impresses this sensitized and thoughtful approach of SNSD towards SDP and SDA, and yet I remind you of the agenda point. The replica was reported by Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6155	So SNSD is a bigger party than Bolitka, that's right; it has a resource of agriculture in the RS, so it has more incentive than in the Federation and there is no solution. And we in the Federation don't have a solution with this condition. That's why I've brought what should be done to make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6156	The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6157	kolega Kalabić, you spoke for 2 minutes 38 seconds, you said six times in those 2.5 minutes: you must not ask, four times you said that working to improve the small party and five times you asked how you did it. You could have said all that in 10 seconds and everyone would have understood the same thing and they'd probably get the same answer. And on the other hand, I'm not going to ask you where you're informing yourself of that and the rest. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6158	It is very nice for me that you have to say it instead of your colleagues, because I don't see where you had the need to react to such a thing, but it is obvious that in some way, and I am glad that my colleague Lijanović did not deny it – so the truth is that, your discussion or replica has some other meaning, but it remains that story that is not being asked and will not still be asked. But I also support Mr. Lijanović in such a situation that it is a small amount of money. It is necessary to increase the money for agriculture in the Federation, but to remain unquestioned. It means we don't touch it. And now as for how everyone, as we inform everyone else, so everyone has various ways of informing, among other things from your ranks, people are asking us to ask that question, here's to be honest. I mean, at the end of the day, I'm not a man (I've been good with him for years) because he says it's up to me. Well, sometimes I ask others to ask for my trouble, and that's how we help each other, and I don't think that's so bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6159	Okay. We know Drago Kalabić very well. Replica, Mirza Kušljugić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6160	So I would basically answer and replicate to Mr. Kalabić. This morning I had a chance at 9:00 to be with the federal prime minister and to get me the first information that it wasn't the biggest asset problem, it was the way the funds were shared. So, in the federal government, what's been done in the last few months, it's actually one revision of who gets the incentive funds. Just to remind you that in Croatia, 80% of the Todorić of Mr. Todorovic receive 80 percent of the country in Vojvodina buys Mr. Mišković. Therefore, the situation is not so simple about neither buying nor encouraging countries in transition, but the solution is possible. And most likely will be the direction of the solution: in order to get the incentive, you must be a registered agricultural producer, not as it has been so far. 94 And since it was in the government's previous term, you probably know, you were in that government, you had a minister. I think you could have intervened in the way that the division, when that resource held
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6161	Danijela Martinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6162	Thank you very much. It seems it was my honor to return to the agenda. The report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of operations in BiH's agriculture and food industry, adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2010, contains a review of the measures, 25 measures, and most of these measures were initiated by the old assembly's call. So, looking at the list of implemented and unrealised measures,... I was concerned that in a large number of cases, the Crucial Area and the measures related to the Crucial Areas were implemented only partially. So I'd look back at two areas, two areas. These are the area of protection of domestic production against excessive imports, as well as agriculture, rural sector and incentive measures. As regards the area of protection of domestic production against excessive imports, it was therefore a worrying fact, i.e. the finding that there was no relevant information in a large number of cases leading to protection measures being taken, and then the blame for failing to provide information is transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to the Foreign Chamber and vice versa. It is also said that the adoption of the Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on measures to protect domestic production from excessive imports has only partially addressed the problems relating to the protection of domestic production. In this respect, my representative question was also referred to in the same direction as to the final clear answer of which are the assumptions for the taking of safeguard measures, who is responsible for initiating those measures and what has been done so far on this matter. We also do not have a monitoring committee on cross-border trade in goods, and it said in the report that it is not even formalised, whatever it means, a commission in this ministry for the protection of domestic production. When it comes to rural scanners and incentive measures, so let me secondly say to the burning area, when we imported billions of KM worth of drinks and food last year, without adequate protection, we do not have adequate measures concerning harmonisation and incentives when it comes to agriculture. So we have the Office for Harmonization and Coordination of the Payment System in Agriculture, which is formed but is not operational at all. It also did not complete the harmonisation of the incentive measures in BiH's agriculture, as well as the monitoring system. The report says: a commission was formed, then a task force for rural development, within the working group and a technical team. Turns out we're just formal committees, groups and technical teams, and where the effects of all these teams are and everything else. Of course, it is clear to all of us that the responsibility and competence for agriculture are primarily at the entity level and there is clearly no adequate coordination between the ministry and the entity ministries of agriculture. But the EU is absolutely not interested. According to Action Plan 95, we are obliged to implement the priorities of the European Partnership with BiH documents, I will now specify two points, one SP 153, so these are codes, and SP 154, to implement a comprehensive state-run agricultural strategy, which involves the adoption of a draft state plan for agriculture and rural development, a decision to establish a payment system, a farm monitoring service, an advisory board for agriculture. The Action Plan also states that the deadlines that we must meet were 2009 and 2010 respectively. Then, that we need to strengthen our national coordination and harmonisation capacities, which means establishing harmonised IPA standards and others. However, there is little or no mention in this report of steps relating to the realization or beginning of those measures, which is our European commitment. Therefore, I would ask that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in the following report, or since I see here that it is a representative of this ministry, to provide us with information at which stage there is the implementation of those measures, which are our European obligations, i.e. related to the European Partnership document with BiH. Finally, we must have insight into specific problems, concrete requirements, recommendations and plans to resolve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6163	Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6164	Thank you, Chairman. Let me welcome this information, the way it is presented to Parliament here and to draw attention to what will also be the introduction into the content of my discussion of something standing here in the third paragraph of the introduction of the Review of activities on the implementation of measures, which is that the report on the implementation of the measures adopted according to the competences and responsibilities they have and which, even after the instructions of the Emergency, has not been delivered by the Entity Ministry of Agriculture and the Department of Agriculture of Brcko District. So, I draw attention to just something about and so far, on several occasions, to the debates on possible constitutional changes on the need to form a ministry of agriculture at a level and arguments or called arguments, which have been heard that co-ordination of competent authorities within BiH can achieve adequate effects. Here's what this coordination looks like right now, so the restoring entity ministries didn't deliver a report after the emergency. The presentation of Mr Lijanović, especially after statistics, followed a proposal for some measures. So here's what you can do about the implementation of this report and the debate on the situation in agriculture, and, of course, specifically refer to some of the measures proposed, I would draw attention to something like a country that presupposes to join the EU. As you know, we in this period can use...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6165	I'd like to ask my colleagues if we could really listen to an esteemed colleague. _________(?) ...all day, yet we are exposed here... All day! I would ask you to really try to listen to each other. Here you go. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6167	Chairman, I don't expect anyone to listen to me and I don't think that your intervention is necessary in that sense, but to create conditions here for normal work and normal discussion – that's what I expected, even before you act, chair. Because communication between us during someone's debate and some debate can certainly be... desirable.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6168	Dear fellow Members, I have intervened at least 10 times before this discussion, and if I have to remind the Members of the Rules of Procedure, then where did we come from?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6169	I can only suggest that sometimes a little less tone, because sometimes it's a little too loud. That's it. And if someone listens to me, they don't really have to, I don't expect it. But here, let me go back to the content of the discussion. So, as a country that claims to join the EU in this period, we are at our disposal the funds of the IPA Fund pre-accession instrument. Of the five components of the two are available to us as a country that does not yet have candidate status. Of those two, as we know, we don't use funds for our known reasons. So let us ask ourselves a little bit just for the purpose of further incentives from European funds, European funds, and funds that will be available to us in the future – such as the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, the European Fisheries Fund, the European Regional Fund and the Cohesion Fund – which is why much work needs to be done in this Parliamentary Assembly, of course, and in the new Council of Ministers. So, I just want to draw attention to something. Protectionism was a feature of the EU's agricultural policy, which is also the most important policy of the EU. The fact that almost 50% of the EU budget is spent only on agrarian tells us about the importance the EU attaches to this policy. However, reforms that have been completed at this stage, a newer stage of history, under the pressure of the World Trade Organisation rules, are moving away from protectionism. Therefore, the country that claims to go towards EU membership, to count on protectionism, while at the same time counting on European funds and European funds, I think it is in cohesion. So, here to return, it is good that this Parliament, unfortunately, is here in the late hours and with reduced attention, debates even in this context of the limited competences of state institutions on an important segment, but what I would like to particularly draw attention to, firstly, to welcome, of course, the particular work of new institutions in this domain, more recently in the relatively new history created by the Office of Veterinary, food control, etc., the sector even in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which deals with these issues, plant protection, etc. There's a lot of work ahead of this institution, but certainly, what they've done so far is worth the attention. Thank you. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6170	Thank you. No more reports. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the 2010 Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work You've received a match report. The college as a commission failed to reach agreement, today we are voting in the second round on receiving information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010. There's no discussion here. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6178	No microphone 101 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6179	A kolega, Mešić, quits by voting on the Council of Ministers' work report for 2010, with the opinions of the House committees and joint committees. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! _________(?) ... Please again... The SNSD Club is asking to... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6185	Well, I don't know where he suspects from. Mr. Živković spoke on behalf of the club and this conclusion came in time. So there was a discussion on this subject, and according to that discussion, this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6186	I must say, quite correctly, that this conclusion was heard by one of the SNSD MPs during the debate, so I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6187	If it means something 10 minutes break?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6188	I don't know anything. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare to vote. Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. I think you helped us, decided to remove this problem too. I invite you to prepare yourselves. Vote on this conclusion now. I find that this proposal has not received the necessary majority. 103 We are going to vote on receiving the Annual Report. So, this report, we didn't want to know, but now let's vote if we're going to vote to confirm it. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! For this report, we have the required general majority, but we don't have the entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 9th item of the agenda Report on BHRT's work and business for 2010 Delayed statement at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held 27. Seven. 2011 Here first we vote on the conclusions and finally the report itself. First we vote on the adoption of a conclusion from the Commission's new opinion. If it's necessary, I've already read it, it's all clear. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find these three conclusions have been given both the necessary and the general and entity majority and have been accepted by the House of Representatives. We vote so on this conclusion by the Commission, which reads "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly estimates that the key problem in the operation of RTV BiH is management." Please prepare yourself, it's an old Commission conclusion. Are you ready to vote? Yes, it is. Please vote. This conclusion was not accepted, did not receive the required general majority. Now, at the end of this agenda, we are voting on the adoption of the 2010 report on the work and business of BH RT. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives adopted the 2010 report on the work and business of BHRT. We move to the 10th item of the agenda Work Report of the Office for the Review of Appeals for the year 2010 Featured statement at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held 27. Seven. 2011 First we vote on... two Commission conclusions. Do we need to read it? It's not. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that these two Commission conclusions have been adopted, that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority. 104 We are now voting on the adoption of the 2010 report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary and entity majority, and that the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2010.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6189	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6190	That's these two.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6191	... No, that's two later, and this is an integral part of the opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6192	And we've adopted this now with the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6193	... Well, if we're adopted, that's great, good.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-08-25-0.u6194	We're going to read this and we're going to make it clear that there's no dilemma at all. So, Opinion on the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2010. It is the opinion of the Commission signed by Emir Kabil. 'The Board of Appeals is 22. 3. In 2011, she submitted her 2010 Work Report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Commission on Finance and Budget of the Parliamentary House of Representatives at the 4th session, held on 26. Seven. In 2011, she considered the report and with five votes 'yes', one 'against' voice and one'restricted' voice accepted it without the proposed conclusions contained in section 16. Reports, then referred to a further parliamentary procedure. On the basis of a member of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission has designated the rapporteur Emir Kabil." That's what we voted on, and there's no need to plead more. That's right. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: The report on the work of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010. Here, therefore, first we vote on this conclusion by the Commission. Is it necessary? So this conclusion is known to everyone. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find this conclusion has been given to both the general and the entity majority. We are now voting on the adoption of the report on the work of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency for period 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010. 105 I urge you to prepare to vote. Vote, now! Was this a mistake or was it a mistake? I find that the report on the work has been rejected with one vote "for" and 20 votes "against". We move to the 12th item of the agenda: The report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry of Bosnia and Herzegovina We vote on the adoption of this report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! Is this where the vote should be repeated? I realize we have a general majority, we don't have an entity majority. A colleague of Živković's, round two. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDP Club, we will repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote again. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. Agreeing to the College. We vote right in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I konstatirati that this report has been accepted, that we do not have enough votes 'against'. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the 2010 Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work. We vote in the second round on receiving information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2010. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have not received information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2010. Obviously, we have enough 'against' votes from one of the entities. That's right. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: 106 Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH Governments We vote on the adoption of this conclusion with the proposed members. So Niko Lozančić, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, Milorad Živković. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the House of Representatives has accepted the proposal for a conclusion, together with the proposed members. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of a representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption Glasmo on the adoption of this conclusion with the proposed members, so which are proposed: Danijela Martinović, Borislav Bojić, Mirsad Đugum. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have adopted the proposal for a conclusion, along with the proposed members. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH Glasmo on the appointment of Milica Marković, Mirsad Mešić and Mate Franjičević in the Joint Commission. I urge you to prepare for the vote if it allows this left wing of Parliament to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have adopted, or appointed three members from the House of Representatives. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina Glasmo on the appointment of Šefik Džaferović, Aleksandra Pandurević and Mate Franjičević in the Joint Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! 107 I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have appointed three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes. Now we move to the 18th agenda and I suggest that we vote first on all agreements from point 18 to point 34 in the package. Who's to this conclusion? We vote, now! I find that we have accepted this conclusion. I invite you to prepare for the vote now. We vote on granting consent to the ratification of the agreement from point 18 to point 34. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have ratified these agreements. I note all colleagues and colleagues that the 9th session of the House of Representatives is scheduled for 8 September 2011. This concludes the work of the 8th session of the House of Representatives and thank you for your cooperation. The seat is finished at 18.40 hours.
