ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u368	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 5th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 13 delegates present at the session, of which from the Bosniak people 5, from the order of the Croatian people 4, from the order of the Serb people 4. Mr. Mladen Ivanić has been prevented from attending this session for justified reasons, and we have information that Mr. Josip Merdžo announced his delay at the beginning of this session, so we expect him to join. For the 5th session, I suggest the next amended agenda. There's a lot to read, so I'm gonna read it a little bit first. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 4th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code, issue: 01,02-02-7-55/10 of 11.10.2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 4. Proposal for a Law on the Wine of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02.02-2-50/10 of 17.08.2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on mineral fertilisers, issue: 01.02- 02-2-53/10 of 05.10.2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-67/11 of 12.05.2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Customs Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-09/11 of 24.05.2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act, issue: 01.02-1-2/11 of 22.03.2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No 01,02-02-7-11 of 03.02.2011 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02- 02-9-65/10 of 02.12.2010 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 12. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 13. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, Proposer: BiH Presidency, Material Number: 01,02-04-244/11 since 21/03/11; 14. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01.02-50-19-239/11 since 18.03.2011; 15. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01,02,01/1,02/1-08-384/11 since 20/05/11; 16. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-457/11 of 26.05.2011; 17. Work report and financial report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Post Office in 2010, material number: 01,02-29-12411 of 18.03.2011; 18. Report on the work of the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency for 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-276/11 of 05.04.2011; 19. Report on BHRT's work and business for 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-352/11 of 04.05.2011; 20. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-248/11 of 22.03.2011; 21. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 01.01.2010 to 31.12.2010, material number: 03-50-19-318-1/11 from 04.05.2011; 22. Report by the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the revision of the Project Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Friendship Building between Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina (HYPERB 1 and HYPERB 2), material number: 01-16-903/10 since 30.06.2010; 23. Decision extending the mandate and amending the mission of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces Armed Forces Armed Forces in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) operation in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, No: 01,02-03-866/11 of 03.08.2011; 24. Report from the area of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009, issue: 01.02- 28-1002/10 since 23.08.2010; 25. Report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 01,02-28-68-1/10 of 24.12.2010; 26. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare a proposal to amend and supplement Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on the conditions of mutual travel of citizens; 3 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Belgium on the paid work of supported members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic passports; 30. Giving consent to ratification of the European Convention on Landscape – Florence, 20.10.192000; 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Cultural Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Vlada of Rumunija; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Malaysia on Co-operation in the field of culture; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the government of Montenegro on border crossings for international traffic; 34. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police co-operation; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on police co-operation in the fight against cross-border crime; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the government of Montenegro on border crossings for border traffic; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the 2009 State Programme (II part) under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 39. Giving consent to ratification of the Defence Co-operation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2009; 41. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC Fund for International Development – Project of Housing Reconstruction; 42. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Uni Credit Bank Austria AG – the financing of the project "Supplying equipment and providing services for two hospitals in Sarajevo"; 43. Giving consent to the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the State Programme (I Part) for 2008 in accordance with the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on Promotion and Reciprocal Protection of Investments; 45. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of tourism; 4 46. Giving consent to the ratification of the Robotic Treaty on the Protection of Olympic Symbols of 26 September 1981; 47. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Veterinary Cooperation; 48. Giving consent to ratification of the patent law Treaty adopted on 1 June 2000 in Geneva; 49. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on co-operation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and organised crime; 50. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of Austria on the implementation of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation (the Implementation Protocol); 51. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal and the Protocol between the Ministry of Security of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior on the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal; 52. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on Co-operation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and organised crime; 53. Giving consent to ratification of the Declaration of Purpose between the BiH Ministry of Security and the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD); 54. Approval to ratify Amendment No. 1 The Treaty on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, signed on 17 November 2005. This is the amended agenda of the College of the House of Peoples. From the earlier agenda at the request of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, we have removed point 3. – Proposal for a law on censuses, households and housing in BiH in 2011. We also took down point 10. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of BiH, since the proposed Law was not adopted at the 9th session of the House of Representatives, held on 08/09/11. We also removed item 25 from the previous agenda. – Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010, due to the BiH Prosecutor's Office's notice of 13/09/11, that due to earlier commitments by the D.A.'s D.A., the deputy chief prosecutor will not be able to attend today's session. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Is there any proposal to amend and supplement the proposed agenda? Here you go. 5 The monitor tells me that no one has been reported to participate in this discussion. At the same time, I find that the work of the House has been joined by an esteemed colleague, delegate Josip Merdžo, I welcome him. And, in that sense, the presence record is corrected. Thank you. If there are no amendments and additions, the agenda has been adopted because it is not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 4th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No Niko, thank you. We're voting on the 4th session minutes. The vote is over. I find that of the 14 present, there were 13 delegates, against no one, abstentioned 1 delegate. There were nine delegates from the Federation of BiH, 1 abstentioned, against no one. There were four delegates from Serbia, no one against, no one abstentioned. And since there's both a general and an entity majority, I realize that a log from the 4th session of the House of Peoples has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u370	This is a mistake. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u371	Mr. Bećirović, there's no problem in repeating the vote if you think there is, okay. I'm asking the Technical Service to repeat this vote. Thank you. I find that in the re-vote on this agenda, of the 14th, 14 delegates present were in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4. Since the principles of both the general and the entity majority have been met, I find that the 4th session of the House of Peoples has been adopted. Thank you. 6 We move to point two, Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions According to the Secretariat's report, we have not received a single answer to any delegated questions that have been raised before today's session. Now I invite you to participate in this agenda item if you consider it necessary, i.e. to answer the word if you have any new delegate questions. Here you go. The word came from a distinguished colleague, delegate Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer my question to the Council of Ministers. True, the real address for this issue is the government of the Federation of BiH, but since the execution of European Court decisions in Strasbourg is the address of the states, which is BiH, I refer this issue to BiH. The issue concerns a long-standing problem of discrimination against a large number of pensioners who have achieved their pension rights in the Federation of BiH territory. I don't know how familiar you are with this situation. It was 38,000 people. In the meantime, 14,000 people have passed away and today this issue is current in the face of 24,000 people, which means it's a large number of people who are being discriminated against. Discrimination has been found that from domestic institutions, so on January 6th 2003, the House of Human Rights found in its three decisions that there was discrimination against these BiH citizens, ordered institutions to solve the problem. Unfortunately, institutions that were competent to solve this problem, which is the Federation of BiH, have treated this problem inconclusive, so people have also asked the European Court of Justice for assistance in Strasbourg. In a well-known case, the European court in Strasbourg has again underlined against BiH that it is a classic discrimination against a large number of BiH citizens and, with the resolution of an individual request, has ordered BiH as signatories to these conventions, to remove the source of this discrimination. Unfortunately, the decision in the Karanović case was not followed at the time. The Human Rights Court again makes its new decision in the case of Šekerović and Pašalić against BiH on 8 March 2011, where it again calls on BiH as a state to fulfil its obligation to protect its citizens' human rights, as it has disobeyed both the Human Rights House and the Constitutional Court have made several decisions establishing discrimination by the Federation of BiH against these citizens. Unfortunately, I have also contributed to the Council of Ministers the way these citizens are treated, and this comes down to that famous movie or Heri Haver's novel "Trace 22". Citizens address an institution that is obliged to resolve this issue and what do they get? I'm making four different decisions. Conclusion, the request of a particular person is rejected, because it is premature. He also responds to each other to deliver one 25 documents, and these are people who gained their pensions back in '92. For years, then you can imagine the state they're in. Procedures are being opened. And in order for one of these citizens to do it right now, he needs it as was necessary for Karanovic's two faces, full of nine years, because theirs, and theirs, so solving 7 protection of their rights, took nine years to decide, it has not been resolved so far. The consequences of this are primarily due to the current situation in this way close to 6 hundred million marks from the PIO Fund translated money from pensioners who have the lowest pensions in the region and paid in favour of these persons. Secondly, this also causes great political damage, because there has always been a story of Zagreb – Belgrade, today there is a story of Split – Zagreb, there is a story of Banja Luka – Sarajevo and always this example is good to show here how we in the country protect our rights. That I would ask that this issue be paid a great deal of attention, because it is about 24,000 pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u374	I thank Mr Simić. So, do any of the questions want to answer on behalf of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u375	I'm sorry, I asked for a written answer because this is too serious a question for anyone to answer this question right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u376	To the Department of Justice's address, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u377	Yes, the Council of Ministers, the state is required to execute the Court's verdicts in Strasbourg. How will the state handle this, let the Council of Ministers handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u378	Thank you. Then we can move on with the question of the next delegate. An esteemed colleague, Halid Genjac, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u379	Thank you. My question is addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications at the BiH Council of Ministers: What are the results of the talks on the position of the Adriatic-Ionian highway through the BiH area, where the highway connection with Corridor 5c is foreseen and what is the position of the highway in relation to the Neum area? 8 I also request a written reply and I hope by the next session that it is possible to get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u380	I thank my esteemed colleague, Genjac. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u381	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, good afternoon. I have two questions and both are addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The first question is – Do employees of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and the Office for Auditing BiH institutions receive a salary supplement prescribed by Article 26. The law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions, if they receive what is the amount of the supplement and what number of employees receives a salary supplement? And the second question - Will digitalisation deadlines adopted by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of... the forum, as bodies in charge of drawing up a complete Digitalisation Action Plan and will the state subsidise citizens in obtaining a digital receiver, as did all the countries that have crossed or are in the phase of moving to the digital system? And I pray in writing for answers to both of these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u382	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bradarić. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u383	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I ask the Council of Ministers, more specifically the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – When will the Law on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been pending for many years, be delivered in the parliamentary procedure? When will it be presented to both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when will it receive the established Foreign Policy Management Strategy and the Foreign Affairs Act? The second part of the issue is also addressed to the same ministry, I ask that representatives and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in both homes, in what recent time period does the report on the work of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs Department for the period 2006-2010? Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u384	I thank my esteemed colleague. That's also a written answer, thank you. If there are no more reports, I'd say we've exhausted this item of the agenda, so I'd ask you to move to work on the third item of the agenda. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code, issue: 01,02-02-7-55/10 of 11.10.2010 (second reading) Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading, and in the second reading we have a debate on amendments and we are voting on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Constitutional Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act with two amendments. Now I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission to Mr. Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u386	/No microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u387	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u388	It's all contained.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u389	It's all contained. Thank you. I find that Mr Simić has given up his participation in this debate on behalf of the commission. And I'm just asking you, does that mean that by other points of the agenda
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u391	Yeah. At the same time, it also informs us that on other points of the agenda, it does not particularly want to take the word on behalf of the commission, but that the report is written. Thank you. Now I give my word to the legislator. 10 In the name of the legislator, does anyone want to take a word? You don't want to. Thank you. After that, I'm opening a debate. I urge you to engage in the discussion and report for word. I don't have registered applications on the monitor for participation in the discussion. It's technically neat, right, so there's no way someone checked in without being registered. All right. Thank you. Since we have concluded the debate on this agenda, we need to move to a vote on the bill. Thank you. The vote is over. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates voted in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4. The general and entity majority are satisfied. So I can conclude that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number in Second Reading was adopted, whose proposal was the Council of Ministers of BiH. Since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Count has been adopted in a different text than the House of Representatives, we now need to approach the establishment of a Commission to bring the text of the bill into line. I call upon the heads of the delegates' clubs or possibly some delegates individually to declare the names of the members of this Commission on behalf of the House of Peoples, in the order you wish. Dear colleague Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u392	Thank you very much, first of all, I would like to welcome you all together and wish you the success of this session today. In front of the Croatian People's Club for text alignment on this agenda point, I suggest Mr. Josip Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u393	Thank you. I give my word to my dear colleague Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u394	Honorable presidency, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the delegates of the Serbian People's Club in the Joint Commission, we propose Mr. Staš Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u395	Thank you. I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u396	In front of the Bosniak Club, colleague Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u397	Thank you. Are there any different suggestions? No, I don't. Thank you. We should now vote to establish these proposals as members of the Commission. Start the vote, please thank you. The vote is over. I understand that with 14 votes for, from Federation 10, we are from Serbia 4. In addition to the general and entity majority, they adopted the proposal which are members of the Commission on behalf of the House of Peoples, i.e. Mr. Josip Merdžo, Mr. Staša Košarac and Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. Thank you. We're going to work on the next item of the agenda. The next item of the agenda is point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Wine of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-02-2-50/10 of 17.8.2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers Given that this is a second reading, we are having a debate on amendments and we are voting on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication, and the Commission has adopted a 30-amendments proposal for a Law on the Wine of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The delegate Hasan Bećirović then submitted to the House of Peoples on 12 September 2011 a new amendment that is actually required – To delete amendments III, XI and XXV from that Commission report. The House of Representatives adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's 27th Amendment Wine Law. I now give my word to the chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications to Honored counterpart Hasan Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps this situation in practice is a little rare for Parliament. I, as chairman of the Commission who adopted the Report by majority vote, have tabled a subsequent amendment, so I would like to, and as chairman and as a delegate, not abuse your time, try to be as brief as possible, to explain the situation. 12 The 27 amendments adopted by the Commission are amendments adopted in the House of Representatives. The submission of these amendments has been done with the aim of reaching the Wine Act as soon as possible, which we have all assessed together as a very important law, given that the BiH area is practically not regulated at all. Although the Commission, in addition to these 27 amendments, has adopted 3 more amendments that make up the different texts of this law compared to the adopted Proposal in the House of Representatives, I have decided to submit amendments, above all to delete those 3 amendments, first of all to get to the law as soon as possible. So to bring the text of the law into line with the adopted text in the House of Representatives. Amendment XXV, this refers to these previous 2 amendments, Amendment XXV is an amendment that is in direct, I would say contradictions with, both the letter and the spirit, the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the principles of the World Trade Organisation.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u400	I'm really sorry, Mr. Bećirović. I hope you won't take this awkwardly, at this point we're dealing with the Commission's report. You are the promoter of the amendments that came after the Commission's report, so I would ask you to address this topic in the course of the discussion on the agenda and to propose your amendments and to request that we make a statement on them, so that a debate can be held afterwards, if there is a need, of course, to hold such a debate. And at this point, according to the Rules of Procedure, we are treating the matter of the report itself, so what came to the delegates' table as the Report of your Commission. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u401	Since I said what I thought about the report, I'll conclude then.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u402	I thank you. I hope we don't disturb this discussion any further. Thank you. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present. Here you go, Mr. nešković.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u403	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u404	Thank you. I find that the legislator has given up the debate. 13 Now I open the debate and call upon all who wish to participate in the discussion to answer the word. Excuse me one more time, Mr. Bećirović. Given that Mr. Bećirović has reported earlier, I suggest Mr. Košarac, despite this order that you see the first one getting the word. Do you agree with that? Thank you. The word has been given by a respected colleague, Hasan Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u405	I remained in the dilemma, chairing the business provision on the order of the debate, whether an amendment which I have submitted or on the Commission's report should have been discussed before. But I believe you did it well, so I won't trouble you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u406	The secretary will check and file a report. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u407	I'm not going to trouble this situation. So I've made this amendment for the reasons I've begun to state. The fundamental reason why I put this amendment is the fact that we try today at the House of Peoples, to come to the text of a law that is identical to the law adopted at the House of Representatives. Another reason is to eliminate the provisions of the laws that are contrary to the provisions of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the principles of the World Trade Organisation. This is where I think of this amendment XXV. I would remind all of us that the EU's convergence process involves, i.e. EU membership means, first of all, the integration of the BiH market into the EU market. And as a prerequisite for the act is the unification of BiH's economic space within the country. For that reason, these amendments are also heading towards at least trying to achieve these principles in this small segment. We also know that the area of production and wine traffic is quite messy. That this is causing a series of problems, from uncontrolled imports, uncontrolled wine production from grape varieties not contained in that wine from imports, etc., these producers from Herzegovina know best all other producers, and for this reason I felt it was very important that we get to this law as soon as possible, to arrange this area. I must also inform you that yesterday, me and the two deputies of this Commission, at the request of the European Commission, held a meeting where we decided on our surprise and despite the suggestions that the law on the matter, I will try to make it public, in terms of quality, is not in line with the EU acquis. Regardless of the fact, I was of the opinion that it would be good to adopt the law in the same text as it was adopted in the House of Representatives, and that these provisions regarding quality from the point of view of harmonisation, full harmonisation to say, with the legal acquis of the EU in this area, are very urgent to make amendments and amendments to the law. For that reason, I invite you to vote in favour of this amendment so that, as soon as possible, without certain complications, we can get to this law. 14 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u408	I thank Mr Bećirović. Before I give my word to Mr. Košarac, I have consulted the Secretary of the House, so the procedure for the presentation of amendments is related to the work of delegates and is being held in debate on the agenda. In the introduction of the reports, therefore, they submit the proposaler of the basic text and someone on behalf of the commission president or someone who is authorized to do so, so we are not currently according to this, as I would say, a layman's interpretation violated the Rules of Procedure. If Mr Bećirović wishes we can access the authentic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure i.e. Yes
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u409	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u410	No, thank you. Okay. I now give the word to my esteemed colleague, Košarac Koshart. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u411	The Honorable Chairman, of course, and vice-president, dear fellow ministers, respected ministers in the Council of Ministers and other guests. I think there is a kind of consensus that for BiH and its wine producers, it is very important that this area is defined by law. And what needs to be pointed out is that the actors when they passed this law, you could say, have exhausted all possible competences to get to the quality of the law. We had a problem of this kind that, above all, we are based on yesterday's meeting with representatives of the European Commission, who are still present here, fully informed that the BiH Wine Act is not fully in line with the EU's legal legacy and that in this context we can have problems with the application of Protocol 6 to the Transitional Agreement. And now there is a question of whether we will pass laws that will be in line with the EU's legal heritage and which are very important for BiH, for future processes in BiH, which will be conducted in connection with the harmonisation of the rules in BiH with the legal heritage, or whether we will try to find some transitional solutions and then, through changes and additions of legal projects, come back to that stage. We believe that we must begin to adapt the legal rules in BiH to European standards, and I think that, that is the view that the representatives of the European Commission themselves represented at yesterday's meeting. And I think that this should be responsibly accessed in these stages of the adoption of legislation, above all such an attitude that it is necessary to apply European standards, of course, unless they threaten the Dayton Agreement, namely Annex IV, and the competencies arising from Annex IV. And our position, on that point, is absolutely not going to change. And we will not support this law in the parliamentary procedure in the House of Peoples. 15 When it comes to amendments, namely amandman Ii which he delivered to the parliamentary procedure, Mr Bećirović, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I must say that these 3 amendments, which have been challenged by Mr Bećirović's amendment, are amendments that I and these amendments are, above all, referred to Article 4(3). Laws, Aamandman I to Article 21(2). Laws and Amendment XXV relating to Article 57(4). What is quite clear from the statement delivered by the representatives of the European Commission is that our amandman III and Amendment XI were not the subject of the European Commission's dispute. Amendment XXV is. And if there was a mood for Mr Bećirović's only amandman to be divided into 3 amendments, today we could find a certain kind of conversation on this issue, therefore, the position of the Serbian Club in the House of Peoples of BiH will be negative on your amendment, Mr Bećirović, and of course we will not support the BiH Wine Act in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u412	I thank Mr. Košarac. My dear colleague, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u413	Thank you very much. Here is the future law in the second reading, and I have tabled a number of amendments that have passed in the House of Representatives. The same amendments were made by Mr Bećirović and they passed, so our commission, and they became an integral part of the bill's proposal. In this regard, as explained, a number of amendments that are actually contradictory to each other have been adopted. We have a situation that we have received, and here is a letter from the European Commission in which our colleagues have informed us and, of course, by hearing the attitude and by proposing that there is nothing to say, I can only say that by analysing these laws and what I have actually asked of the promoters, when the law was discussed in the first reading, whether the consulted associations, whether the representatives of the winemakers' associations participated in the draft draft of this law. I was told they were involved and there's nothing controversial about this law. And I have to inform both this House and the Proposer that I have received a reply from the Association of Winemakers, that they are not consulted and that they have very many objections to the proposed text of this law. In this case, both the Croatian people themselves and the Club of the Croatian people are creating one clue, that we are passing a law which, to say, is unquality, which at the moment has provisions that are contradictory to each other, creates confusion, does not implement it. So, on behalf of the Croatian People's Club, I would like to inform this House that we will also be abstentioned on the prerogative of the wine law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u414	I thank Mrs. Krišto. 16 And the word went forth, and the part of the discussion, and the esteemed fellow of Halid the Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u415	Thank you. As can be seen, this law on the front page bears the label "E" - a proposal, which means that the law that is in the context of European accession, which is actually the law that is our obligation under the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and with what obligation we are very late. There are huge problems that do not exist in this law to wine producers and in that market, which many colleagues in this House can speak more competently than I do, but the fact is that the problem is because of the absence of this law. Efforts have really been made to come up with this law. One dimension is the consultation with the European Commission and the need to comply with European binding standards in the area, has been sought, there is still room to be done, to bring it into line, and there are changing standards in the EU. Another problem is our internal problem, the issue of jurisdiction and, of course, as a key problem, the need for this law to be passed. I think that the House of Representatives from its 27 amendments is well on the way to solving these problems. They are also here on the Commission which is competent, adopted one of those numbers, part of the amendments, that is, those 27 and the other 3 amendments that I think that, in the context of compliance with the obligations of the European Partnership and the Stabilisation and Dispute Agreement in that sense, I think we should discuss in a way that we should see the nature of these amendments. As we heard in the debate, three amendments have been disputed. This is amandman III, XI and XXV. As regards Amendment III relating to Articles 4 and 3 of that Article. The 3rd position, therefore, is that the BiH Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the ministry in co-operation with the competent authorities of entities and Brcko District, determines the boundaries and names of vineyard areas and other characteristics regarding the production of grapes. It is now proposed that instead of "co-operation" stand "agreement". So, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Ministry, with the consent of the competent authorities of entities and Brcko District, sets out the boundaries and names of vineyard areas. I think the amendment is controversial for reasons, for a simple reason, the boundaries of the wine growing areas are not within the borders of the entities. So this is not an entity issue, that entities give consent, borders of vineyard areas cross the borders of entities, and these are simply vineyard areas. And I think that in the original text it was quite enough and well enough and correct enough to stand – to ask for consent, that is, to seek the cooperation of entities, that is, to solve the issue in terms of co-operation. Something similar is this, perhaps, perhaps somewhat from the aspect of the profession and more drastic when it comes to Amendment XI, which refers to Article 21, or Article 2. 17 In its position of 2nd, in the organoleptic assessment of wine with geographical origin, a commission consisting of trained representatives of wine assessors, which is on the list of assessors, which is established and adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the ministry to co-operate with the competent authorities. Now it's wanted - with the consent of the entity. Is it necessary, therefore, that entities agree when it comes to experts of extremely pronounced expertise and when the Council of Ministers determines that list, which is therefore known in the Council of Ministers, is the principle of decision-making and what kind of decision-making. Therefore, whether it is necessary to seek agreement for a decision of the Council of Ministers which cannot be made, we know, and according to the Rules of Procedure, without consent and representatives of at least one constituent people, etc.? I think this, no matter what the goal is and I can understand it, but these two amendments make it difficult to apply the law. I mean, they don't make any special contributions, they don't do anything special, but they make it harder to apply the law. When it comes to this third amendment, we agreed it was him, so he's dealing with a lot of the obligations we've taken and there's no problem. If the position remains that there is no willingness to support these amendments and this one to resolve the issue, I don't think it would be a good approach to bring down the law. There are still opportunities to save the law, I would rather suggest that this law be returned in some way to the competent commission and the amendment phase extended. We have this decision, so we have the opportunity to make a decision and during this extension of the amendment phase... the necessary consultations with both the representatives and the Council of the Minstars and of course the others who need it, and even with wine growing associations, including, of course, the delegation of the European Commission, or the Department of Economics that has observations, that we may try to fix the law and bring it into some order, to finally get it anyway. And all for reasons because this law is extremely important and necessary. So, I suggest that the amendment phase be extended for another 15 days and return to the competent commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u416	I thank Mr. Genjac. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Mr. Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u417	I have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u418	He's got a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u419	The replica first. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u420	He's got a replica before.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u421	I beg your pardon, and the replica, pardon the correction of the wrong quote, I beg your pardon. Honorable colleague of the Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u422	Thank you, Chairman. I respect your position, of course, but I definitely expected more from your statement that, as President of the Joint Commission for European Integration, you will open up a more courageous issue of the European Commission's stance on this law. I want to remind you, of the three amendments that the controversial, once again I want to remind you, is just one dispute for the European Commission, two are not. And you did not comment on the European Commission's position on Article 2a, Article 6. amandman III, Article 8. amandman IV, Article 19. amandman vi, Member of the 44th and general position of the European Commission as regards the European standards and the legal heritage of the EU. For me, who was also a member of the Commission for European Integration, it was expected that you, as president of that Commission, would focus primarily on this position of the European Commission. It is worrying that your priority was these three amendments, of which only one is controversial, which we can agree on, and two of them are not. Why didn't you comment on these, too, you run this Commission for European Integration? Your obligation is to apply the Protocol of the Interim Agreement, and it is our obligation to apply European standards and the legal heritage of the EU in our standards. That's not what we talked about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u423	I thank my colleague, Košarac. An esteemed colleague, Halid Genjac, came forward to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u424	I would only recommend to a young colleague that he doesn't worry too much because it affects many things, and this one in which I will discuss at this session and about this point is, of course, my right. I am, among other things, a delegate and a club president and, of course, the chairman of the committee. If you take a closer look at my debate and in more detail, you will indeed see that I have devoted at least a third of the discussion to the aspect of compliance with European directives and that this is one of the fundamental reasons why I have proposed an extension of the amendment phase. But from, in addition to that compliance with European binding norms, we do have some questions inside that need this, in the law, to fix the way the law works and to implement it. It is not just us to the same extent as how important it is for us to comply with European norms, to the same extent that it is important for us to pass a law that will work, which will be enforceable. So, this really, really, when you look at this whole 19 I agree with you, it's important and that dimension, and it's important that this one, for all these reasons, we propose an extension of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u425	I thank Mr. Genjac. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Here's my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u426	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say, Mr. Genjac has produced a question of constitutional jurisdiction for this law. Unlike many laws that do not have within this narrow..., this law has the authority... to work on implementing international agreements on the way to BiH's accession. And from that point of view, I don't see any problem in projecting whether he has jurisdiction or not. The second question here, I keep reading this Rules of Procedure about work, and indeed, I come from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia where I have to say along with, that maybe someone doesn't take it as evil, where it's a lot of the Rules of Procedure more orderly. Where I know exactly every situation, every point where I react, as I react, I don't know now whether the motionary can withdraw this law after this debate and prepare it for the next session, the next procedure, I can't find it in this Section. I can't find it in the Rules of Procedure if we reject the law whether certain consequences arise for the promoter, in RS he can't stand it, Mr. Tihić knows it well we've been there for a long time, six months. So they are very drastic punishments for those who are irresponsiblely proposing. We also have a procedure here in which we have a law that is not in accordance with Europe's standards. Niko one says that we should condemn it and give criticism and that it must not happen and repeat it in the future. If there is a practice, because in the Rules of Procedure I cannot find it, I suggest that after this discussion the Proposer withdraws this law and that it be dealt with in this direction and that this House and, of course, the House of Representatives come a law that will be of quality, which will solve all these dilemmas. And don't waste any time correcting the work of the Council of Ministers, trying to preserve something that's very difficult to preserve. I don't know if there's any foothold, but I think it would be one proposal that could bring this situation into the position of our club, the Club of the Croatian People and Mr. Genjac, or his club, to get a quality law as soon as possible, because we all agree that this is important matter, that we need to solve it, that a large number of people at a time when we don't have jobs, which Mr. Bećirović was talking about, are very interested in getting this law and we are going to start this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u427	I thank my colleague Simić. Here I will allow myself from this place, not as a discussion of this agenda point, but as a number of issues that have arisen. So, the fact is that this Rules of Procedure that we have has to deal with a number of questions that are being asked in front of this House, and I think that this debate and its course and its content are very good at showing that this College, together with the secretary, should respect certain remarks that exist here and propose to this House a better quality text of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 20 I find that there are no more applications for discussion on this agenda. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we move to a statement on the amendments of delegates Hasan Bećirović. Please initiate the vote, it is one amendment relating to the three amendments to the Commission's Report. I find the vote is over. Out of 14, 7. against four delegates, and three delegates were abstentioned. Seven delegates voted in favour of the Federation, three delegates were abstentioned. The RS 4 delegates were against, no one for, no one abstention. This amendment has a general majority, but does not have an entity majority, which means that in the first round of voting it did not pass. So we're moving on to consultations within the College. And I understand that you saw that the alignment was not with such a result as to accept Mr Bećirović's amendment. So now I call on the technical service to introduce us to the second round of voting. Thank you. In the second round of voting, out of 14, there were 7 delegates, against four delegates, 3 delegates were abstentions. The Federation of Votes 7 delegates, and three delegates were detained. There was no one from the RS against the four delegates, no one held back. Once again, there is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, so I realize that Mr Bećirović's amendment has not been accepted, i.e. it has not been adopted. Now we need to move on to the vote on the law. I'd like technical services to allow us to do that. Thank you, the vote is over. In the first round of 14, there were four delegates, four delegates against them, and six delegates were detained. There were four delegates from the Federation, no one against and six abstentions. From Serbia to no one, against four delegates and no one abstentioned. This, therefore, the Law does not realize the majority either by entity principle or by the general majority principle. I'm guessing he hasn't been adopted. We're moving on, please. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Genjac, I don't know what form you're in, you see here on the monitor for what you're applying for.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u429	21 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u430	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Genjac answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u431	I believe that before the Law was declared, it was necessary to make clear the conclusions concerning the law. Because when he declares the law if he's not adopted the thing is done, the law is rejected. But there were our conclusions that were a proposal to extend the amendment phase. This, and that way before, before the Law was declared, it was necessary to make a statement about the proposals concerning certain matters relating to the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u432	I thank Mr. Genjac, the violation of the Rules of Procedure implies the injury of a certain member in terms of advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't notice we hurt a member. On the other hand, I've listened carefully to all the discussions, and I've seen this as a kind offer to discuss something. But then Mr. Košarac from the discussion concluded, he sent a message that such a conclusion would also have no support. So, since there was no written conclusion proposed, I believe there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. And if you agree, let's move on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u433	I mean, let's not get too complicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u434	Thank you. Moving to the next item on the agenda, that's point five. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on mineral fertilisers, issue: 01,02-02-2-53/10 of 05.10.2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Given that this is a second reading, a second reading is a debate on amendments and votes on the bill. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication, the Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on mineral fertilisers in the proposed text. I now give my word to the chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications to Mr Hasan Bećirović. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u436	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u437	I find that Mr Bećirović has found that there is no need to further give an explanation regarding the Commission's report and that he has given up the discussion. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. I find that the bill promoter is also giving up participation in the debate, believing there is no need to supplement anything. I'm opening a debate and calling on delegates to report for word if they want to participate in the discussion. I find there are no applications for participation in this discussion at this point in the agenda. Now we should move to a vote on the bill, I urge you to make it possible. Thank you. I find the vote is over. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates voted in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbian 4, there is both the general and entity majority. So I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on mineral fertilisers was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Thank you. We're going to agenda number six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-67/11 of 12.05.2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u440	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u441	Thank you, I realize there's no need to engage in the discussion. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. The bill promoter also gives up participation in the discussion. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Now we need to move to a vote on the law. I find the vote closed. Of the 14th, 14 delegates present, it was in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4 and with the existence of a general and entity majority. I find that the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-09/11 of 24.05.2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH I note that in the second reading, we have a debate on amendments and we are voting on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. The Commission adopted the draft law with one amendment. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to Mr Hasan Bećirović. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u443	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u444	I find he's been held back from the debate. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, does he want to? I find he's been abstaining from the discussion. 24 I'm opening a debate and I'm asking you to engage, is anyone answering your word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the discussion. And we're going to vote on the bill. The vote is over. Of the 14th, 14 delegates present, it was in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4. With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act of BiH was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Moving to point 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act, issue: 01.02-1-2/11 of 22.03.2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's proposal. You've received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Constitutional Commission passed the draft law with three amendments. The House of Representatives adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data also with three amendments. I give my word to the chairman, fellow Simić, who needs to be involved in the discussion. Thank you. Just a moment I ask you to meet the technical requirements for the application for discussion, i.e. Press the button. Thank you. Dear colleague Krstan Simić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u446	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the occasion for this intervention is more than one message related to the amendments adopted. In fact, the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission came from the legislator of the Law, we noticed one practice that exists, that when individual ministries invest amendments directly send amendments to the congregations, that is, the House of Nations, and thus bypasses the Council of Ministers. We believe and believe that this is about amendments to the defacto of unauthorized persons, because the legislator is always the Council of Ministers. This time we made a compromise where some members of the Constitutional Commission took over the role and they were the proposings of these amendments. In this way, we would like to tell the Council of Ministers that the future Constitutional Commission will not accept the proposals of individual ministries unless the Council of Ministers is familiar with these amendments. Definitely here as well as Mr. Tihić comes around the Council of Ministers and can create certain irregularities, inconveniences when such a law is passed. I just wanted this because of the Minister's attitude and the Council of Ministers, and since there are a lot of legislators here to bear this fact in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u447	Thank you, dear colleague Simić, for further explanations. 25 Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. Here you go. Okay, I'm saying that the bill promoter abstained from participating in the debate. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any registered participants on the monitor. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to vote on the bill. Thank you. The vote is closed. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4. With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data has been adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. So we're going to work on the 9th agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No 01,02-02-7-11 of 03.02.2011 (first reading) Having in mind that this is the first reading of the bill, and in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples who have accepted the principles of the proposal for this law. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. Does Mr Simić, on behalf of the Commission, want a word? No, thank you. Does the Proposer of the Law want a word? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u452	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u453	For the sake of record and correctness to you I will repeat this because your microphone was not included. So, Mrs Nermina Kapetanović asked on behalf of the Commission to support this House's report, bearing in mind that it is fully in line. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point and I'm inviting you to join the discussion. Here you go. I find there are no reports, I conclude the hearing. So we move to a vote on the Joint Commission's report on both homes' agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration of legal persons who establish BiH institutions. Thank you. I find the vote is over. Of the 14th, 14 delegates present, it was in favour. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of agreement on the identical course of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish BiH institutions has been adopted. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish BiH institutions has been adopted. Now we're going to work on the 12th item of the agenda, Ad. 12. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the application and protection of the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the 5th session held on 14.07.2011 adopted the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Application and Protection of the Name of BiH without Amendments. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the law with one amendment at its 4th session on 28/07. At the same session, we also appointed members of the House of Peoples to the Joint Commission of both homes to comply with the text of the law. The Joint Commission reached an agreement at the meeting held on 05/09/2011 on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Use and 28 Protection of the Name of BiH, and drew up a report on which we are due today. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. I give my word to the rapporteur of the Joint Commission, a respected colleague, Mehmed Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u455	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u456	I apologize to my esteemed colleague, Bradarić, but you'd have to apply for participation. Here's a colleague of Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u457	Also this report was fully agreed, there were no problems, and here are the delegates to accept it as it is proposed and accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u458	I thank Mr. Bradarić. And I'm opening a debate, who's answering for a word? There are no reports, thank you. We now move to a vote on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH. The vote is over. From 14, there were 14 delegates. From Federation 10, from Serbia 4. There is also a general and entity majority, so I find that the Joint Commission Report on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH has been adopted. Therefore, the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point 13. Ad. 13. Annual Information and Security Policy Platform, Proposer: BiH Presidency, Material Number: 01,02-04-244/11 since 21/03/11 You have received the Joint Commission's opinion on the work of the BiH Security and Security Agency. The Joint Commission is farting to the House the adoption of the Annual Platform with the next conclusion. We call on the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver within the legal deadline a platform on BiH's security and security policy for 2012 and to set out their 29 representatives who will inevitably attend the commission's session on which the platform will be discussed. The House of Representatives adopted the Annual Platform on Bay Security Policy with the conclusion of the Joint Commission. I give my word, Chairman, I apologize. I give my word to Mr Staši Košarac, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u460	I don't think there's any additional need for any kind of comment. We have, of course, discussed this Platform on the Joint Commission, brought a position to the House of Peoples, to propose to the House of Peoples to support it and, of course, this conclusion, to make this conclusion known and to make a positive determination according to this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u461	I would like to thank Mr. Košarac for his further explanations. I give the word to the proposing representative, i.e. Someone on behalf of the BiH presidency, if he is present. I agree for this record that no one has joined this House session on behalf of the BiH Representation. But business doesn't stop us from doing this part of the agenda. That's why I'm opening a further discussion and I'm asking you to join us. Who's answering for a word? Niko one's answering for a word. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. So, we're going to vote on the Annual Information Security Policy Platform. I find the vote is over. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 13 delegates, 1 abstentions. From Federation 10 delegates were for, from RS 3 delegates were for and 1 abstention. In addition to the fact that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the conclusion of the Joint Commission is, excuse me, that we have adopted the Annual Information and Security Policy Platform. And now we're voting on the conclusion of the Joint Commission. I find the vote is over. Of the 14 present, there were 13 delegates, 1 was against, no one was abstentioned. There were nine delegates from the Federation, and one delegate was against it. Four delegates voted from the RS. There's both a general and an entity majority, so I'm finding the Joint Commission's conclusion has been adopted. 30 Moving to point 14. Ad.14. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-239/11 since 18/03/11 You have received opinions from the committees of the House of Peoples: - Constitutional Commissions, which adopted and proposed to the House the adoption of the Report in the section considered by the Constitutional Commission as a competent commission. - The Finance and Budget Commission, which proposes to the House to receive a report in the section of the Finance and Budget Commission, - the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, which adopted the Report in the section under consideration as a competent commission, and proposes its adoption to the House. You have also received opinions from joint committees: Joint Committee on European Integration, which supports the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2010 and proposes to adopt the following comments: (a) For a full review of the work of the Council of Ministers on the European Integration process, the Commission considers it necessary that the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers the report on the implementation of the IPA Programme's commitments, Stabilisation and Association Agreement and Priorities from the European Partnership planned in 2010 and in the first half of 2011, (b) Information on the actual state of play in the implementation of approved projects under the IPA Programme Funds (2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 year), c) Information on the process of programming of IP components 1 and 2 for 2011, d) Information on the establishment of functions and structure of the decentralised system of the IPA programme (2007, 2008, 2010) and 2010 in the Republic of Croatia's implementation of the EU instruments for the EU's accession (DI). The Joint Commission for Defence and Security, which adopted the Report in part from its jurisdiction and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure and suggested that the House adopt the following conclusions: 1. A report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2010 in the area of competence relating to the responsibility of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH, which concerns the responsibility of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH and which is considering, I apologize, the work of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, does not contain the elements necessary for the decision, and therefore requires the Council of Ministers of BiH to deliver, as soon as possible, to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and two points: Report on the authorisations issued for transport of 31 weapons, military equipment and military products, dual purposes in 2010 and the Report on Realised Authorisations for the Transport of Weapons, Military Equipment and Product of Double Purpose in 2009. 2. In order to remove all the problems of the functioning of the Demining Commission and the Centre for Demining BH MAK, the Council of Ministers is asked to submit the report on the work of BH MAK for 2010, to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for further consideration, and, after considering all the problems with the process of demining in BiH, to urgently initiate the procedure for proposing a new Demining Act in BiH. And on the Joint Commission's report on the work of the BiH Security Intelligence Agency, which accepted the report in part from its jurisdiction, it points to a further procedure with a proposal for its adoption. The Joint Commission also proposes the adoption of the following conclusion: 1. Data from the 2010 report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, on the level of realisation and planned objectives are extremely worrying, especially in the Ministry of Security and potentially can have very bad consequences for BiH's security. We call on the Council of Ministers to ensure that the next report contains a significantly higher percentage realised than planned. Next, the proposal for the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, adopted by the Report in the section considered as a competent commission, proposes its adoption to the House. Then, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, which did not adopt the Report in the section considered as a competent commission. Now I give my word to the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u463	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u464	Okay. I thank the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, who says he would not give a detailed item at this time. Explanations. If that's the case, then we'll approach the debate. I'm opening a debate. Please, who's answering for the word? What's everybody's, is it nobody's? Okay. My dear colleague, Mehmed Bradarić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u465	Dear colleagues, this report is incomplete. He's really missing out there and he's getting pretty old, but I think he can be useful if we talk about him a little bit. I must first give criticism to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers who are not here today, and a very important report is being considered. When it was 2009, we didn't even talk because it was really too old and just for the reason that it would be good for them to hear what wasn't good at work, they wouldn't have improved. Here's 32 if they continue in the technical mandate, and you don't even know how long they'll be doing it. I will not support the report because only the Council has proposed 823 programming tasks there, 506 is overall realised and it is 60% and I think it is a very low level of realization. Priorities or priority tasks of the Council of Ministers were the economy, the improvement of foreign investment, the fight against organised crime, and the kind of commitment that the Council of Europe has imposed, and I will not mention them this time, and these are the three things that already seem to me the birds on the branch know. And almost none of it was realized. The reasons are there, here I will try, says there was no entity consent. There was no agreement within the working groups that were formed to create draft laws. A very large number of sublegislative acts were transferred without justification in 2011. I think the Ministry of Foreign Trophy and Economic Relations is here first, somewhere around 20 of these acts and says there has been no political consent since the mid-term, because elections have been coming up, and so on. According to those papers we all get about investment, BiH is the last in the region. Macedonia has four times more foreign investments, Croatia three times more than Macedonia, Serbia 22 times more than BiH. And it's very little, they're going to say it's very little in them, but obviously nothing is so small that it can't be any less. In March 2011, the World Bank published, and in fact here I want to say that there is no need to blame the recession because foreign investment was not there. We're better off, too. Here's what I'm going to say is a specific example. I'm from Maglai. The Turčin bought “Natron Hayat” in Maglaj. It's a good company, it's working somewhere around 1,000 people today, it's got solid salaries, it's got regular salaries. And it's a company that works very hard with RS. Somewhere around 400 tons of coal they buy daily from tenants, buy very large quantities of wood, with suppliers working and I think in the last year about 1,200,000 marks were paid to suppliers. And, people said, I was with them in some other capacity, they said they were very willing, interested in making the next big investment in RS but there were no forums, there were no attempts on the other side to do so. I don't think anyone has the right to give up such significant investments. In March 2011, the World Bank came up with a study on administrative barriers and procedures. The time spent on opening businesses and of course costs, that BiH is taking 160th place, a very infamous place. Let's say, to open a business, you need 60 days, you need a completely separate 12 procedures, you have to pay 540 euros in expenses. As long as there's someone in Germany who does the same job, he needs seven days, he needs 34 euros, etc. The Council of Ministers kept coming to demand employers to cancel that customs registration fee. Here it is today we have here and I'm glad. After all this time, it could've been done before. It would very much help these employers of ours. But here, you might want to think about getting rid of these tariffs, because our importers are paying, not to convince now about 5% or 10% of what employers in RS pay 2.2%. The corridor is a special story. It is in the Republic of Croatia annually making 105 km of highway, we have been here for several years on these 16 km, from Zenica to, to, from Kaknja to Drivusa and will probably be doing it for so many years. And I calculated in that study there, in fact, the material that we got, BiH should still make 185 km by the end of 2013. I don't know if that's even possible. And I don't know if it's even the exact data they're writing there. I've expressed my suspicions even though there's a bank's assets... and so on. I think there's absolutely, I think there's really more to be done and that's it. 33 When it comes to tourism, it is our perspective. That must be the perspective. I won't list how much BiH has beauty. Yesterday we went from Banja Luka to here, so simply who didn't go, let him go to see those beauty. And we have something to offer touristic, but let's say I can't, I immediately remembered California, a small town in America, California, where hundreds of thousands of tourists flock to see a cobayage lightbulb burning hundreds and some years, etc. And we really have what to offer these people, and so on. So I'm going back to this fact that says that the degree of realization is 60%, that's very little, that we're not talking about an organized fight against corruption and so on. We just formed this agency, and I'm not sure they even started working. I believe they have problems. We all got Mrs. Irena Lovrić's paper which works at the Return Fund whose budget is 40 million and the woman begs for professional intervention when she is drinking corruption at the Return Fund by the director and so on. And obviously, if you gave people a chance to talk, there's a lot of crime, and I know because I was in the Canton Assembly, the Women's-Doboy Canton and the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, there's a lot of it, especially in public procurement. And I don't think the state really, the Council of Ministers has done proudly about it because this agency was supposed to be long, long ago formed. Agriculture is also a key drink, and that's why I'm going back to the beginning, to 60%, and I'm saying I'm not going to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u466	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bradarić. And if you allow me from this place to join the dissatisfaction over the irresponsible relationship of the part of the ministers who are not present at this House of Peoples session and, of course, the finding that a part of the people are doing well their job here and this one, they probably noticed, all the delegates are working with HDZ ministers. If the SDS had a minister, they'd come. I don't know why the SDA didn't come, Mr. Tihić? Okay. That's more of an internal party analysis, isn't it? Okay. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Okay. I agree that we have exhausted the discussion on this agenda point, so we are now going to vote on the report on the work of the Council of BiH for 2010, with conclusions and remarks that form part of the opinion of the Committees of the House of Peoples and Joint Committees. Here you go. Do you want Mr. Tihić to repeat the vote? Would it be okay if the president of the party who has ministers supported the Labour Izvjetšaj? All right, all right. Please allow us to repeat the vote. Here you go. 34 Thank you. I find the vote on this agenda is over. Of the 14, 10 delegates present, two delegates were against, and two delegates were detained. The Federation voted seven delegates, against two delegates, and one was abstentioned. From the Serbian 3 delegates were in favour, and 1 delegate was detained. In addition to the fact that there is a general majority and an entity majority, I find the following – The report on the work of the Council of BiH for 2010, with the conclusions and remarks that form part of the opinion of the Committees of the House of Peoples and Joint Committees, has been adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Košarac. You can't answer the question, you can contact the Rules of Procedure or something. Okay, I hope the delegates don't mind. Here, I'll include you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u467	Thank you, Chairman. Given the fact that we have the next point, which is the 15th point, regarding the High Court and Prosecutorial Council report, I am using the business opportunity to seek a 20-minute break on behalf of the Serbian delegates' club in the House of Peoples. Before we go in,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u468	Okay, well, I'm obliged to meet your request, so I'm guessing that from now on, we have a break in work in the next 20 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Can we get back to work? Okay, given that 13 delegates are in the hall, we can move to work on the 15th agenda. Before we move to work, and given that in the meantime a break has been asked by the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, I call on my distinguished colleague, Staš Košarac, to say if there is a need to make a statement? No, I don't. Thank you. Point 15. Ad. 15. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01,02,01/1, 02/1-08-384/11 of 20.5.2011
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u471	I have to say, first of all, I'm a little confused by the termology used here -- she hasn't received knowledge or she's received knowledge. I don't even know what it means. The Constitutional Commission supported and submitted a proposal to discuss it at the session. And since I'm already able to... make sense, if we discuss 2 - 3 hours or 15 minutes, anyway, of this report, we take it to the knowledge or knowledge, on the one hand. On the other hand, we are not the ones who adopt the report or do not adopt the report. This report has a character of information. And in that direction, I would, for the sake of the elevation of us dealing with this business, not to go into those formulas that discredit us as professional, and even to say logical people. So this is where we look at the report. It is an obligation to present itself, and what is the result of the discussion, that is our attitude towards this report. Of course, our position on this report is also a particular recommendation, regardless of the independence of this body, to consider those objections that are in the function of improving conditions. It is also a recommendation to the Council of Ministers in a legislative sense to improve certain provisions if this report follows. The Constitutional Commission therefore supported the discussion today in addition to these technical remarks to avoid traps, to receive knowledge or not to receive knowledge. We received it as soon as we read it, as soon as we discussed it, we received it. We do not plead with him, but we will probably give our judgment through discussions that we will discuss on certain issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u472	Thank you, Mr. Simić. So what I can do as an explanation at this point is, it's about the usual procedure which is inter alia related to Article 20 relating to the Law relating to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. In that Article, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: He says: “By 1 May of each year at the latest, the Council will prepare an annual report stating its activities and describing the situation in the judiciary and the prosecution, including recommendations for its improvement. The report is delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so that I do not list who not all of them "for the purpose of informing". _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, so the report's available to the public. 36 "At the invitation of the Parliamentary Assembly or of another body from the previous position, the President or other authorised representative of the Council will directly explain the report at the session and answer the questions of the MPs or members of the other body, through the debate on the report and conclusions, etc." So the fact is that we receive this information, we receive this information without any conclusion and which would be contrary to the procedure so far, this could mean that we have talked and completed the agenda point. The usual parliamentary practice that has been inherited here so far and we can discuss whether it is good and probably would agree with you in the good part, because what it means to accept the report when you have already read it or not, is that we have inherited the procedure in which the report is found to have been accepted into knowledge. So I guess the agenda's closed. Is this an explanation that can serve for this point and for this opportunity, and then to discuss this issue in more detail in another period? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u474	Mr. President, it can, on the note only, “he has considered information,” a much better term – the House of Peoples discussed information about the work of the Prosecutor’s Office, i.e. the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. It seems much more appropriate “to consider. ” And we can do this, but we can avoid traps like this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u475	Here we are, then, staying on this formulation for now, and the rest we're going to agree on, because this is probably the result of an earlier alignment. Thank you to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. I now give the floor to the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Does Mr. Novković want to speak? He does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u476	Very esteemed and esteemed gentlemen of the delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the respected chairman of the esteemed House. On this occasion, I would like to welcome you and thank you for allowing me to provide information to this House on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, which is quite comprehensive and contains the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and are giving statistics with a brief explanation of the 92 judicial institutions in BiH. I hope after the discussion that you will give useful suggestions to improve the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, as well as to judicial institutions in BiH, which is our common interest, as well as our public interest in BiH. 37 I would like to brief myself on the legal basis for the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of the Agreement, signed in March and April 2004, by the governments of the RS, the Federation of BiH and the Council of Ministers, where certain powers were transferred and where a body called the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH was formed, passed the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH with the task of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which is its basic function and competence to provide independence, impartiality, functionality, efficiency and urgency of BiH judicial institutions. And since 2004 since July, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has been operating in that capacity. What I would like to point out is that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is composed of 5 members from the Federation of BiH entity, the RS entity, 1 member from Brcko District and 1 member appointed by the BiH Parliament, 1 member in front of the BiH Council of Ministers and 1 member, an international member appointed by a high representative in front of the OHR located in BiH. It excludes the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is the election and appointment of judges and prosecutors in BiH, except the Constitutional BiH court. And when it comes to entity constitutional courts, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has a limited role to play in the election of judges of that court. In addition to the election of judges and prosecutors, the High and Prosecution Council has the authority to establish responsibility for the independent work of judicial institutions in BiH, judges and prosecutors. Responsibility shall be established through the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, who shall act and act within the High Court and Prosecutor's Board. I pointed this out because often in public, and often in others, and even in professional circles, we have many objections that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has no responsibility or that judges and prosecutors have no responsibility in their work. So there is no independence of judges and prosecutors without responsibility, and that responsibility is realised through the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office. On this occasion, I would like to give you only certain information, that perhaps the most, not least, but certainly, the most relevant in the region was the judges and prosecutors in the BiH judiciary, starting with the functions and positions very high in the BiH judicial system, from members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, judges, prosecutors, from suspension to exclusion and other types of sanctions prescribed by certain rules that are in accordance with the Law on High Court and Prosecutors. It was almost more appropriate for judges and prosecutors in this time from 2004 to 2010, than it was for 30 or 40, I wouldn't go further, but I think more maybe than 50 years. I often ask myself a question, and I ask myself a question to many who deal with this problem, is there a responsibility of judges and prosecutors or is there no such responsibility? The main point is that there is no responsibility between judges and prosecutors. Judges and prosecutors are independent of law enforcement and interpretation of the law. They are not independent of themselves, but they are obliged to properly apply the laws and to correctly interpret the laws and to correctly apply the case law adopted and adopted on those judicial institutions which undertake to be applied. One of the very important responsibilities of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is the Ethics Code and the conduct of the code of judges and prosecutors. What is most important, judges are obliged, i.e. the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, to provide the basic principles of the work of judicial institutions. How courts and prosecutors will be organised, at what level, it is not decided by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but decided by certain congregations, or in parliaments where laws are passed and for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, both for the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the laws at the level of courts, entities, at the Brcko District level, etc. 38 The High Court and Prosecutor's Council on Labour is often commented on, when it comes to BiH's judiciary organisations. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is considering drafts, or draft laws, but only those that are relevant, for courts and prosecutors, certainly for the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, but only to the level of opinion delivered to those bodies that are competent and authorised to pass laws. You know what a level of opinion is. Along with the justice ministries, finance ministries, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, as a partner, has the authority to provide funding for BiH's judicial institutions. I want to point out that BiH's judicial institutions, which exist in a very legally complex state, are nowhere in the environment, and I don't think there is anywhere in Europe either. So there is a judiciary at BiH level. There is a judiciary at RS level at the Federation of BiH level and there is a judiciary at the Brcko District level financed from 14 sources. So the fragmentary financing of the BiH judiciary is expressed as nowhere in the world. It is clear that much more developed countries also have problems with the financing of the judiciary and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council as a partner, making their contribution with full and full understanding of the economic situation in the institutions from which judicial, courts and prosecutors are financed, and we have a lot of understanding in this direction. It is also up to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to provide material technical conditions for the financing of judicial institutions together with the justice ministries. I want to point out one fact on this occasion, which is that in the last 6 or 7 years, almost all the necessary material technical conditions for the financing of BiH's judicial institutions have been provided. We have built information communication technology in the BiH judiciary as well as in any country in Europe. I want to point out immediately that the security, reconstruction of many judicial buildings in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, eastern Sarajevo, Srebrenica, Modrica, Bijeljina, etc. is financed by joint funds from domestic governments, which I am grateful for and from funding donations that are not negligible at all. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is conducting professional training and education of judges and prosecutors through the Centre for Education of Judges and Prosecutors and through the Brcko District Justice Commission. That's what we've been doing for the last five or six years. And you know, and especially here, there's a colleague that since 2003 and 2002, too, has changed the legislation very well when it comes to certain procedural laws. The highest number of judges and prosecutors, including those who went to school after '91, '92. For years, we at law schools have studied quite one other procedural law compared to those procedural laws that we are now applying, and certainly there are some discrepancies, certain problems, but in a certain way and there has been success, not fully achieved. I am not here, and I do not want to praise BiH's judicial institutions, nor the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I want to show a real picture here to you as the most responsible people in this country, about the work of BiH's judicial institutions. We still represent an inefficient judiciary, but not as irresponsible as it is often attributed to it. We have one problem where a good part of the public doesn't trust the judiciary. I've been working in the judiciary for almost 35 years, mostly as a judge, for a time and as a lawyer, etc., there's always been a mistrust in the judiciary. Needs That Trust(?) to reduce as much as possible. I belong to that generation of judges and lawyers, I believe that trust in the judiciary can only be achieved by one impartial, professional, objective work and the results of work, and in no way can judges, prosecutors, chief 39 prosecutors enter certain conflicts with representatives or political authorities, or executive authorities or legislative authorities. It is our job to do what the principles of the judiciary in Europe and in other countries are. Whether we turn left or right, we certainly won't be independent then and we won't be impartial. So, what you're interested in, I'm going to talk about this short, I've already exposed something, and I'm not going to cross over without saying anything about the War Crimes Processing Strategy. I am also the chairman of the supervisory body since April 2009 and we held the last meeting in Brcko as a supervisory body yesterday and it is the 23rd meeting. The processing of war crimes cases is not a satisfactory supervisory body, is not satisfied with the public and is not satisfied with the professional community either. We know that there are a lot of problems that are very pronounced and we as a supervisory body have made a lot of conclusions, but only a lot of conclusions in the framework of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, in the context of the efficiency of the work on this very, very difficult and complex work. The deadlines from the Strategy are 7 and 15 years. If it doesn't end within those deadlines, it's already late in a certain way. The place of the courts and the prosecution will be done by biology. Many witnesses have already become demoted to give their testimony, after 15 years, to the courts and prosecutors. Many witnesses have died. A good part of the witness, and it's a good thing they're back in their prewar environments, and that's, that makes them even more demotive to testify. A good part of the evidence goes down, etc., etc. However, we, every 6 months, will submit a detailed report to the Council of Ministers, and we will, within a month, submit one analysis of the work of judicial institutions that are competent to process war crimes cases and all those entities in charge of processing war crimes cases, and will have the duties of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the police agencies, where we will present a clear picture in a very real and objective way to point out where and to what extent the conclusions of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council are not respected, the conclusions of the supervisory body are not respected and where the financial resources are not provided. So far, and this is the conclusion at a meeting in Brcko where all the top prosecutors in BiH were present, where all the most responsible people were present from the SIPA and all the commissioners of the public security centres, coordinators, inspectors who were involved in the work we brought, heard a lot of facts and a lot of material. And from now on, one of the key problems is the prosecution, and especially the BiH Prosecutor's Office, where there is one worrying number of cases or applications from earlier years, 4-5 or 6 which have not been processed. We will both form an analysis on the supervisory body and on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council which is why. Are these objective or subjective weaknesses? And right now, let me tell you we won't be, we'll be very real and objective and if they are subjective weaknesses we'll bring out, and certainly there are objective weaknesses. I've already timed out, and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u477	Thank you, Mr. President. Excessiveness within the limits of tolerance, especially given that earlier promoters have left us with plenty of space to work today's session. Thank you. You have therefore heard a statement with the report of the President of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. 40 A dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, answered the word. I have to apologize to you, I have to ask technical services. So, if by the name of delegates number one, three times you signed up, Mr. Simić, that's impossible. Which means 1, which means 3, so we don't hurt the Rules of Procedure? _________(?) How many times have they checked in? How many times have they checked in? _________(?) Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u480	Thank you very much. Here is also the debate on the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and, of course, from the opening presentation of the President of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, we have heard in some ways in detail what concerns the jurisdiction of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and its work. I am pleased to say immediately at the beginning that, through his jurisdiction, the President of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council said what their responsibilities were, in the light of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so he pointed out that the jurisdiction of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, as well as the plight procedure, were actually judges of regular courts from the level of the municipality to the level of BiH, excluding the Constitutional Court of BiH, and specifically mentioning the limited role of the High Court of Justice and Prosecutors in the proceedings, i.e. the process of appointing judges at entity level. By reading this report, indeed, and I can't really look back on something that's written here and that really shows that it's trendy and that it's really illiterate. It neither rests on facts nor on the law, which is, in fact, a reflection of what the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is. So I will briefly look back on the illustration of what I mentioned, on page 13, which speaks of the appointment of judges at the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court, because I played that role in the past term at Federation level as president of the Federation of BiH, to propose in accordance with the Federation Constitution and in accordance with its powers, the judges of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court. In this text, it reads: “Because of the highlighted interest of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, that as soon as possible all the positions in the Constitutional Court of the Federation were filled in as soon as possible, the Bureau was involved in the debate in connection with the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of the Federation throughout 2010. Since 41 other positions of the Constitutional Court were to be filled since 2008, and the fact that the Constitutional Court is working in incomplete composition is more than worrying. And in order to get this process started for the record benefit of all the partners in the Federation, the President of the Federation's House of Presidents, the basic information in connection with this issue including information on the Council's behaviour in accordance with the Federation Constitution." Indeed, I am asking myself here, I hope many of those who are also aware of the rights, the Constitution, the law and the legal procedure regarding the appointment, I really don't know who is president of some Federation House of Presidents? Probably those who wrote this report were referring to the Federation Parliament's House of Representatives. I would just remind all of these and all the public that is following us right now, that indeed the predstavnički of Representatives does not play any role in the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. In fact, at this point I will say, in fact, what the correspondence and the whole, to say, is a misunderstanding has arisen, and he stemmed from this because the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not respect the constitutional procedure, and under the cover of independence and independence he accused, in that term, the president of the Federation of violating a harsh constitutional procedure. The Federation Constitutional Court, I will repeat what the president of the VSTV said, in some way because of the limited powers of theirs, is a political court and he is a correction of the legislative and executive authorities and, therefore, it is not by accident that the Constitution provides for a procedure in the sense of proposing judges of the Constitutional Court, which, when it comes to the Constitution of the Federation, says that the judges of the Constitutional Court propose the President of the Federation with the consent of the President of the Federation and with the approval of most of those who vote in the House of Nations. So, only most of those who plead. In this respect, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not respect that constitutional provision, and all with a recognizable objective of pressuring and manipulating and questioning the legality of decisions of the legislative and executive body at the Federation level. Of course, given the provisions of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, there was a technical role and the law was clear, they carried out the tender procedure and delivered, conducted interviews and delivered to the President of the Federation, meaning a proposal, or a list of candidates who meet their requirements, from an interview. And now I'm going to briefly look back at what actually happened during those interviews. It happened that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council was placed in the role through these interviews of some institutions, etc., which are like, when you come to the judicial exam and in order to eliminate certain candidates in such a way and for others to prefer. So from the apparitions that I received from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Constitutional Court for individual candidates at two different events for one candidate who received a doctorate in constitutional law, they wrote that he knew no constitutional matter at all, and in another when they preferred it at a certain time, they wrote that he had extraordinary references, and here I may read them here, I have a full correspondence with the High Court of Justice and Prosecutors, where it is said that the candidate, and this is to tell you the position of the Constitutional Court which referred to their opinion and in which he says – there is an obvious discrepancy between countless qualifications on the candidate mentioned in the CV data. It is said that the candidate shows an exceptional legal and academic experience that due to the excellent knowledge of constitutional law, as well as international constitutional law, which was in the position of the Constitutional Court judge, he could make an outstanding contribution to the work of further developing this institution. 42 At the same time, the above data in the résumé are indisputable facts that the candidate is contrary to the applicable rules on higher education in calling assistants spent 24 years without having met the conditions for the promotion and calling of senior assistants and let alone in... teachers. According to this candidate, the Constitutional Court points out that the same High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not recognise a candidate who has an enviable academic career, an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law and who has all done so within the deadlines, all with one tendency to be eliminated. There are more examples like this, and I can only tell you that what I could now say through this report is actually half the paper of this report written here. With this in mind, I insisted on implementing the decision, meaning according to the Constitution, and the whole story was created about that, that the candidate proposed by the Croatian people was a person who was not similar to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council only for the reason that it was a person in which no one could in any way influence. We debate this report and from the point of view of independence, we all advocate independent and impartial justice, judges must be dependent only on the Constitution, law and morality. And indeed, one person who was proposed in such a position could not have come just for a reason because she was not obedient at a certain point in the international community. I say this here clearly, loudly and responsibly in front of everyone, with one goal only that this High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council will be an independent institution that will create this independent functional, apolitical, effective, etc., justice which indeed, as the president said, should rest on these principles. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing more and more things happening in the judiciary that indeed, which is not said to lead certain mounted processes. How certain talks may come at a political level, so the next day is based on a statement by some alleged media, an immediate confirmation of certain charges, and we have complaints about certain judges who are not doing their job or prosecutors who are under certain influence. These disciplinary prosecutors never responded, especially to say in good time, or it took a year or two years to get an answer in terms of handling certain cases that are founded and concerning the law and the Constitution, in fact, what we all need. I just want to say that this is an institution that only works undercover, but it has really brought the judiciary today where we are, and it is both inefficient and unprofessional, with the appreciation that there really are judges who are reading today, who are still doing their job independently, but most of them are those who function as someone, which is at least the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. All of my objections are aimed, not only at me, but at protecting both constitutionality and legality and creating an independent judiciary, not just for us, but for all those people who appear today in the judicial institutions. What I'm saying today is the part and conversations of people who are already more and more fortunate, who are professional, who are doing their job, who come eventually to courts, represent, listen and wonder what they are doing in courts. From the fact that the judges are untrained, with respect to the fact that they are under the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council programme, the education of judges and prosecutors. Today there are many judges who are not, we are convinced through decisions, we have not followed certain amendments to the law, and of course decisions are not based so that this is clearly confirmed, here are some reports of decisions of senior courts. 43 In this sense, I want to say that this is not surprising to me, nor to us who we are following, I say this all over again, with one purpose, but that there is something called responsibility and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and I think that it would do its job differently, and that the judiciary in one way would be more effective and independent. In the context of everything to shorten
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u481	I'm sorry, Mrs. Krišto. I'm very reluctant to do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u482	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u483	I'm just distracting you on time, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u484	I was just about to jump to conclusions. In order to shorten the story, I'd like to say that this information, of course, is either received or not received, is tended to be written and I can never accept it as such or receive it. And I want to say that this House must have the responsibility of this very important institution, to approach the amendments to the Law on High Court and Prosecutor's Council, to establish responsibility and, of course, to make all those responsible that this judiciary is truly independent and independent and professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u485	Thank you too, Mrs. Krišto. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u486	Thank you, Mr. President. I am here in a double role and as a man of profession and now in the function of delegates, so I will try, given the subject, to be more of a man of profession than to be in office, in a certain way, politics. In 2003, when we entered the reform, I was one of those who had a very important impact on reform flows, so I must admit that it was then done under the auspices of the international community and the good part and under the pressure of the international community. We are now in a position to remind ourselves of that verse by Branko Miljković, "will slaves, will freedom know how to sing as the slaves dreamed of it." So for me, this is... the question is whether this report gives an answer, whether the reform has achieved what it was launched for, which is why significant funds have been invested in it, and I must say that first of all, I am glad to hear that the justice ministries, both the BiH entity and the Brcko District, have provided adequate funds that provide a quality level for the judiciary which in 44 some segments cannot compare even a much more developed country. That's good. But the next question is, did the judiciary respond to these technical conditions in its way? Mrs. Krišto mentioned the expertise of the staff. I agree that indeed very often you meet the decisions and intricacies of the judges. But I see it in a broader context, that unfortunately after the war, after the establishment of part-cracies approaches in many segments, we often did not affirm the profession, that often people were not even motivated to advance in their profession, because certain positions were provided to them by other criteria. Justice can't be part of that story. There must be no segment of society, but the judiciary must not be a particular part of that story. What I'm interested in and what I wanted to read from this report I didn't read. Have we created an independent, professional judiciary and how far have we achieved with the reform? Is there any need for us to sit together, to question where we came from, and what do we do to move forward? That's this report to offer. He doesn't offer that. He gave one of the more recent data from which it came that... reports really carried out a number of activities. But it's even worse if we've spent our energy, if we've spent our money and we don't have results. It's an even more devastating fact. What concerns me, when I ask a question, I will have to make certain specific items to show that there is perception, that there are political trials in BiH today, which is a disaster. Which is a disaster. I don't know that Mr. Ivanic won't be offended, he's gone. Procedure against Mr Ivanić, 13 indictees, 12 freed. A three-year odyssey. There is no lawyer who spent 5 years and not 30 more than how much Mr. Novković and I spent in the judiciary, when he looked at why Mr. Ivanic was charged and forced with his group under so-called. An affair with the "Serbian Forests" that there were no conditions or elements to be tried. Also, the people of the judiciary know that the prosecutor, I will say this for the first time, who led the procedure and was a stranger, came to the D.A., the Banja Luka District Attorney's Office and asked for anything to be found about the Serbian Forest affair, that these people were tried and convicted, because there was a business, a business that was called, a company that wanted to take over those woods. That's the information I heard from the D.A. And then there would be... the crying, the foreign prosecutors leaving, the experts leaving, the BiH judiciary would fail. We who have done this work, happy journey, happy journey. Not because we don't need an independent judiciary, because they weren't the ones who could contribute. If I tell you that this same prosecutor, according to information that has not been verified, but can easily be verified, as a party to the proceedings, in one case, has requested a hearing of the judges of the Constitutional Court and the determination of certain measures because the Constitutional Court has adopted a provisional measure in this case. That information I got, it wasn't checked, Mr. Novković and VSTS could be easily checked. If that's true, it's a disaster. In order for that particular case to be followed by the acquittal of all those persons who were subject to processing. If I tell you that in this case, the Court of BiH, referring to that famous member of the 13th, has established his jurisdiction and accused a man where he has found a gun in his search of the premises, offices, and I don't know what, for which he has no authority. Is this the jurisdiction of Article 13 so he can take over cases from the jurisdiction of regular courts? If that's the jurisdiction I really don't understand about this job. These things make a picture. 45 Mirko Šarović, I started defending Mirko Šarović. The first day I left, that was funny, funny. The man spent 11 months in custody, he got out, he was paid to be in a conversation with a European official, and he said -- that's good, you see people being released, BiH is moving forward. I said, great. And did you ask the question, what survived Mirko Šarović and others who were in a similar situation, what survived his family? People aren't sacks of salt moving. And return only to Ivanic's case. 12 freed, sentenced, and now, if possible, I leave it to Mr. Novković to look at that conviction. I can't characterize this man who's his level of intellectual. If there is a forest theft there, I will publicly apologize at this meeting and say, "I'm sorry, Mr. Novković, I apologize to the entire judiciary." It's a cartoon. The forest theft that man took out the hulls from the warehouse with the invoice and the severance note, and it wasn't the one who gave him the invoice and the severance note. Furthermore, in this case, the same prosecutor I mentioned, who walked the Prosecutor's Office in Banja Luka, or the Prosecutor's Office in Banja Luka, has in every way encouraged the same accused to commit bribery. 52 times, he found one now, watching American movies, so we started making the judiciary model American movies, found some poor guy to convince him to give money and say he's giving money for bribes, 500 euros. This man gave it to me. Who wouldn't give in a situation like this when he doesn't even know where he belongs anymore, and his intellectual level is minimal. 52 times this provoker came, found, searched, met. That man was convicted of bribery. If that's it, there's no reason for Mr. Novković to look at this, so he tells me publicly, it's not true, it's true. It's a sad verdict. And I want to say that there are a lot of problems in the public and perceptions that we have failed in judicial reform. I think we made great moves, but we screwed up somewhere. We need to move on, see where the problems are. And through something very dangerous, it is the overlap of power and judicial and, with a particular segment of government in the VSTV report itself, proposes to be involved in constitutional changes. It's the legislative authority. Next, we created some other situations, I'll take it, the other day I had a chance to look at the OSCE report on the application, the war crimes trial. So I found one piece of information where the courts of regular jurisdiction applied the BiH Criminal Law. It's there in the report that the Presidents of the Court have agreed that there is... Please, what President Novković said, it is true, BiH is specific. It's very hard to understand sometimes. But that the courts in Banja Luka and the Sanh Most apply BiH's Criminal Law to trials before their courts. A lot of things happen, maybe it's cause and this stalemate in constitutional reform because I'm really late for some things, but I have a feeling that the Constitution is constantly changing through some of the actions and some of the processes that need to go. Question is:
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u487	Mr. Simić, 46.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u488	Here we go. I'm done. Mrs. Krišto mentioned. Why do we keep repeating these exams? The people who passed the bar exam to the state commission are taking it again. You have a precept today that VTS can't get past someone who has nothing to do with it. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but that's how you convince all the candidates. I have a lot to say, but in principle, I'm just going to conclude with one sentence. It's time to draw a line, see how far we've come, see what we've done, what we haven't done, what needs to be changed, and to have these competent authorities do it together with the judiciary, so we can have that justice that we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u489	I thank Mr Simić. On schedule, the word now has a distinguished colleague, Josip Merdžo. Here you go, Mr. Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u490	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, regarding this item of the agenda, I did not expect it to go into certain concrete things, but here perhaps concrete things are perhaps the most understandable and clearest when it comes to certain topics that are extremely important, such as the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, i.e. the complete structure and the functioning of the BiH judiciary. So we heard from Mr. Novković that a lot of information efforts have been made and that's really good, in the way the data is processed, when it comes to certain items, evidence etc. And from personal experience, I can only tell you one thing, that on one submission at the Office of the High Court and Prosecutor's Office, or the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, I've been waiting a year and a half for an answer. And on the basis of the submission, evidence from certain court proceedings and investigative actions, which are by means of the CMS system, I think is what it is called, is available as it is said at the moment it sits at the terminal. So it's questionable what's being said here that certain updates are at the level. If, with such technology and access to data, it takes a year and a half to be answered by the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, and the answer is that they do not find certain reasons for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against a particular prosecutor, although I must say so, there are concrete files, evidence, therefore certain things that are officially in the investigation and in the main investigation, presented, from which it is clear that certain prosecutors have received knowledge of the execution of a certain criminal offence without taking what the law obliges them to do. When the prosecutor finds out about the crime he's committed, it's his legal obligation to launch an investigation and continue as the law requires. This has not been done, and unfortunately the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office in this case, on these specific circumstances concludes that there are no elements of disciplinary responsibility. Gosodin Simić mentioned certain items. Unfortunately, today there are no agenda points dealing with information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but I think there are extremely big problems and failures. Therefore, the issue of the BiH Prosecutor's jurisdiction, i.e. the BiH Court, was also mentioned. For example, there's only one episode, and we're going to hope for this to happen to each other at a much wider and much more serious time. So, based on what, is the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and unfortunately the Court accepts that, let's say, based on jurisdiction in one of the charges, that 47 solves the working legal status of cooks in the menu of the MUP of the Herzegovina-Neretva County? That's true. Where the judiciary will bring us, where these institutions will bring us, whether this reform has indeed produced results. In some things I see that there are shifts, but these kind of failures, these irregularities, these violations of the law, and the violations of the law by the BiH Prosecutor's Office, may be in each other's speech, I think these things should be very clear and noticed and processed and do everything to make sure that they don't come to them anymore. Unfortunately, if this is a coincidence in the case that Mr Simić spoke about and what I'm talking about, I'm talking about the same international prosecutor, who, fortunately, is no longer there, may be a coincidence, but unfortunately these are all consequences and a bad picture of the situation in the judiciary, and here I am also saying in the prosecutions, state and lower levels, in the BiH judiciary system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u491	I'd like to thank my colleague, Merdžo. My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u492	Thank you, Chairman. I expected that on the basis of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council report, we would definitely have a response in BiH whether we have independent and professional judicial institutions in BiH. I'll start with the war crimes case. The State Strategy adopted in 2008, showed several problems. The first criterion is to assess the complexity of the subject. We have different relations between people in BiH's judicial institutions when determining the criteria. These people are chosen by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. You can, Mr. Novković. I've heard very positive things about you, and you can think that this is my personal relationship to you. And if you experience it like that, you won't cut me. But I need to say something that is the public's view of BiH. The strategy itself lists itself as one of the key problems of the different application of the rules in BiH, the retroactive application of the Criminal Law, etc. And those people who apply the law, you choose. If I'm wrong, you correct me. A maločas ago, when you touched the State Strategy, I asked that my associates deliver the State Strategy, you said, you used one term – biology can do its part, which I think is embarrassing for the BiH institution, shameful for the BiH judicial system. We have a fact that a significant number of witnesses are dying. A significant number of victims are dying. And the slowness and efficiency is in the mandate of those people who deal with these issues, which you choose again. The walking of cases from cantonal, district prosecutors to the BiH Prosecutor's Office is the basis of the views of people chosen to work in these judicial institutions. It's your choice again. The extortion of statements, we have repeatedly witnessed the fact that witnesses in certain processes have come out with the view that certain prosecutors of the BiH Prosecutors are forced to testify. We've had murders based on certain activities of some security agencies in BiH, but it's our problem in BiH and I don't see the full role of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to change these things. That's a very big problem. I won't go in, I want to have a universal approach, but we have a fact for Mr. Novković that, don't get me wrong, a slap in BiH is being tried differently by Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, is that BiH. And they judge those people you chose. I want to say that is a key and major problem for BiH. Only in the context of these relationships. 48 Earlier, you gave a very commendable view that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council can be proud of the disciplinary proceedings. Your representative at the Constitutional Legal Commission says he is proud to have been prosecuted against the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And I wonder on what basis? On the basis of the media and certain, I would say, I will tell you the least I have is the need to defend Mr Barašin, because I think he is also responsible for the processing of the war crimes of all who committed war crimes in BiH. And I have absolutely no need to defend him. But you can't, gentlemen, based on the media or on the dictatorships of the international community or part of the international community, maybe some political lobbies here from Sarajevo, act like that. On the other hand, I will now read it to you, I hope I did not lose that paper, we have a situation that the former President of the Constitutional Court of BiH, Hatidža Hadžiosmanović Mahić, in the Pecat, TV RS, who declared service to BH, 29/04.2010, quote – On the Naveče of 18.06.2008, a private one came to my house, under the alleged bracelets, a prominent face from the judiciary and on me, pressured to take the case to Alijagić, immediately into work, stating that those Alijagić could no longer support the racketing of both the RS and the racketing of the BiH Constitutional Court. In the middle of the conversation, this person's cell phone rang, and it called him Alijagić, and told him he was in my house and after the conversation he turned his cell phone towards me and took pictures of me in my home clothes. I'm not scared by nature, but believe me then, I've lost sight of such a sophisticated criminal program. It's hard for me to believe that this face has decided to take such a step out of the alijagic Alijagić, as well as that it's an independent shooter. This is the public word of the former President of the Constitutional Court of BiH. What did you do in that context? What did the High Court and Prosecution Council do? In a normal country, it would burn. And on the basis of the media performance, you're going to press charges against the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Here, too, it should be said in this context that it has not fulfilled its role as High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in this case, Alijagić. Especially when it comes to the criminal proceedings against Salih Alijagić and others, the procedure is suspended because of the criminal part of the staunch prosecution. Is that possible? Do you have an answer? Be assured that none of the legitimately elected RS representatives will allow such a relationship between BiH's judicial institutions and RS. You know what I'm talking about. What is the role of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in this context? Is she there? Who picks these judges, D.A.? Why didn't the Trebinj Prosecutor's Office investigate the crime of fraud, where there was no statute of prosecution? Who's supposed to do that? Don't do it by the driver in Centrotrans. You gave the answers to those questions? Furthermore, why.....the Barašin case, were no appropriate measures taken against the Trebinje Prosecutor's Office? Especially when it comes to reasonable suspicion that it is a criminal offense of great proportions, and is it done? In Barašin's case, did you launch an investigation into the BiH Prosecutor's Office to investigate these allegations in the media or did you just initiate a disciplinary case against Barašin? Of course, there are a lot of specific and further problems in this context and, of course, all this relationship in the Alijagić case leads to some specific weight, if it is known that three foreign judges in the Alijagić case have been granted an opinion on the BiH Constitutional Court site. And especially so, especially if you look at the results the D.A.'s office has come up with. We don't have the ambition to have any special political talks. We don't have the ambition, of course, to reduce anything, but apparently, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council hasn't responded to its full function. We have that feeling. We have the right to express such an attitude, that this is so, that there are different kinds of pressures. Maybe an ambiance in which the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is located. Maybe the policies that come from that environment. Fears of the international community or parts of the international community. And however we add and subtract, this is not good for the citizens of BiH. It has a public assessment of what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is doing. And that's the problem with BiH. And they expected the High Court and Prosecution Council to do so. I am talking to you because you are the head of this body, because you are expected by the public, all well-intentioned citizens of BiH to change the situation in the judicial system, or institutions in BiH. 49 And I'll just end it. I don't mean here just institutions on a level, judicial institutions at BiH level. We have this kind of problem, and when it comes to RS, based on war crimes, Sijekovac and other cases. But your role is in it, you choose these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u493	Thank you, too, Mr. Košarac. Dear colleague Sulejman Tihić came to the floor. Mr. Tihić, here's to the pay phone. I ask the technique just to find a way to measure the time, since there is no such possibility for this speaker through the monitor. And you turned it on, eh great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u494	Dear delegates, dear guests. I am here listening to Mr. Milorad Novković's opening statement, which presented the jurisdiction of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, one real state as it is with both critical and what was done, expected that we would discuss it in this direction without giving any concrete cases, cases because it is not our task, but to appreciate the overall work of the High Prosecutor's Council itself, i.e. the judiciary. A team earlier, as Mr. Novković said, has great difficulties in the work of the judiciary, an unsettled judicial system that makes it difficult to do what only the High Prosecutor's Council would want to do. I know when judicial reform was being done, I personally had a lot of objections and I had even calls from Brussels in that direction not to interfere, that it was an attack, an influence on the judiciary and everything else. But one-sided things to look at and say that nothing's right or wrong, it's not good, because I think that regardless of the remarks I personally had, that we have some progress in the work of the judicial institutions, that we have a lot to change. I remember when I was a prosecutor in that system, socialism, so if you had 20% of the negative decisions or if some important negative decision was in some difficult case, you couldn't stay a prosecutor. And here we have witnessed these cases, very prominent members of the Bureau and not to speak to any others, who are or a group, who have been released. True, Mr. Novković said and pointed out that, on occasion, the problem in the prosecution is a problem. But we can't say that our judiciary isn't independent. See how many acquittals there have been. Still, we have positive shifts, and in this direction we need to encourage it. Normally, it should also be criticised for both the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the Court, but also to help them to do what they should do in the sense, in this direction also to implement certain judicial reforms, to make certain adjustments, and the constitutional reform itself could contribute to the functioning of the judiciary in one effective way. Because we all know, here's every one of us doing some work, if it's not done legally, it's hard to do that job in one way, in the sense that we would want to do it ourselves. As a result, I believe that here today's report would not have entered into any concrete, individual case, which should be appreciated in this direction that we have some progress, that it is done, that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council should have an even more active role, especially when it comes to some of the cases and some of the results of the work of the judges they have appointed or, and show worse results, that we, on our part, also help and possibly this part of the report, which says that both the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council could be included in constitutional reform 50 or judicial reform, could be of benefit. We don't have to throw it away. Let all those who can make their contribution participate in the reform and the Constitution and the judiciary. Therefore, this report is as far as I have been able to read it, I think that we should accept it with all these remarks that have been made here today and that are in a certain way encouraging and demand to make certain corrections both in the work of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council itself, as well as certain changes that need to be made in the legislative framework, so that both the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council and all judicial institutions can function better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u495	I thank my esteemed colleague Simić, I'm sorry, Tihić. In turn, a distinguished colleague, Mehmed Bradarić, now appeared. Here's a colleague of Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u496	I thought we were going to talk about this previous point a little bit more, there are things measurable, there's information that 823 program assignments are set up, 506 is done or 61%. And indeed we had arguments both for and against. I believe that this problem should be addressed, and those who are in the judiciary, in the judiciary or those who have been in prison are directed, so much more than that they know. I know how much I need to know, so I won't talk much. But I didn't hear any really valid criticisms today, valid arguments, and that was me, I was at the House of Representatives when this was being discussed, and I'm here on some small advantage. And I can tell you, Mr. Novković, that you were there and how you fascinated me, there were several criticisms, but those criticisms were certainly challenged. One of the criticisms was – why the judge one was replaced, because he committed some serious offense, a traffic violation. And the answer was that he had made a statement that he had not committed any wrongdoing. And so it's a statement, some kind of ethical code, a moral code, and so on. I haven't really heard the reasons here today, many reasons why we should refuse this annual report. My kolega Simić, I was the president of the Anti-Corruption Commission in the ZD Canton, the cube of those materials was a report on the thieving in the woods, there who worked in the woods and the mammals began to steal, believe me. And whenever he comes, somewhere in the paper I read or in materials like this that someone who works in the woods is punished, I believe in the judiciary. Of course, I'm not going into this case, Mr Ivanić and so on. And Barašim the case, I believe that Mr. Novković will have reasons or have a story about why it is, but there was no Mr. Barašin to behave very undisciplined, very Kabadahish and I understand that there is an ethical code there, and here we have heard today and good news that man is no longer, believe me, in the judiciary he must not behave publicly and show himself. It's still an institution where they have to be appropriate, appropriate people. There are various pressures on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the strongest are political pressures and it is good that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council elects judges. Bog did not allow the municipal councils to do this, as it used to be in 2000 and 2001, and neither do I, or prosecutors and so on. Well, then you get a prosecutor who or a judge you wouldn't let judge some kind of game, let alone that case and so forth. 51 So the point is, we haven't heard a lot of arguments about why we should all be against this decision today, but of course I agree that there are a lot of cases based on unargumented facts and it would be good to have the High Court and Prosecutorial Council appoint them as urgently as possible. It's no excuse how it stands here, that the prosecutor's charge is filed when he has valid documents, but he's not sure how it's going to end up in court and so on. Indeed, we have heard the cases that should be explained to us here, I think that one of the cases of Garić, Branislav Garić, and I am simply a critic of the fact that it is wrong that such a man is free, even if the only thing he can't do anymore, he won't be able to carry a gun for six months, right? But if he's going to kill someone, he's going to get a gun, and so on. So, it also says that the judges, prosecutors, have problems, if we have read it, we have seen that some judges have been attacked and here I want, here you are, Novković to welcome Prosecutor Dijana Kajmaković, I think that's what it's called, the case of this Turković, Zijad Turković, where the woman has stood up bravely and has a family, where she has stood up bravely and said she will strongly oppose this criminal group, so she called them. And which criminals are involved, we all know they're killing a little game. Or let's say these were people who were so bold as to apply, those who came out of Sarajevo, to apply to the Bureau's address, which we heard in the past days from people who, when we attended certain conferences and so on. So, this report very well recognizes the shortcomings that are caused by the judicial system, but believe that many of us and I are only going to believe that, that we will do everything to lay the groundwork, the basis for ambitious expectations when it comes to the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. So I'm going back to that beginning again, I'm sorry, but I haven't heard a lot of arguments that should be against this Annual Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u497	I thank my colleague Bradarić. The correction of the wrong allegation has an esteemed colleague, Krstan Simić. Comrade Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u498	Thank you. It was wrong, in fact, the replica is, I have two replicas, one is Mr. Sulja Tihić, the other is Mr. Bradarić. Mr. Sulejman Tihić and I agreed in principle on all the issues, however, to point to deviations, the problems of the judiciary could not be mentioned in certain cases. Therefore, these cases in the best way suggest that the problems exist, that these problems should be addressed and I expect that for the next report, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council will note this, and see and check these things. I would like to know whether the correct information is that the Constitutional Court judges have been tapped, exposed to special measures, because they have brought a temporary measure in one case at the request of the prosecutor whose case was under consideration. We are now coming to an essential question here, chairing I have two replicas, so I will have, essentially, a fundamental question – do we have a two-party procedure, if the prosecutor is seeking action for his case? It's a disaster, Mr. Bradarić, a disaster. So a lot of things are said here about the work that is behind us, because the time has come when this work must be summed up 52. Maybe you're not in the judiciary, maybe we're under pressure from the international community, or certain mediators, installing the wrong concept, we've accepted some mixture of the Anglo-Saxon system that doesn't exist, which is not suitable for our tradition here, on the one hand. On the other hand, unfortunately, what is the basis of the judicial reform is the UN tribunal's rules. The rules of the UN tribunal, the rules of an ad hoc court, the way of questioning, the way it is conducted, are only worked out unlike the rules they have somewhere, I don't know, with the amendments of 120 members. And here they are elaborated, but the basis is that. Is this basis appropriate to our legal system? Furthermore, I ask again the question – should prosecutors also be in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council if we have bilateral proceedings? Should we find out to avoid objecting to choose for themselves, that a good part of the Council is respected professors and public workers, psychologists and so forth. To expand that list, because simply perception is choosing themselves, estimating themselves. I'm not saying it's like that, but it's things that we have to keep in mind and solve. And as far as I'm concerned, you've just raised a question that is the clagort of this story, political proceedings. I agree with you that the woods are Eldorado. But here, not the accused foresters, but politicians, ministers, prime ministers, minister one, minister two, third minister. An affair related to the "Serbian Forests" because one company, she from the Cayman Islands, wanted to exploit in the "Serbian Forests". So it's just that, not to mention, it's hard to mention names because people who felt it here felt what it meant. Mrs. Borjana said earlier, when the negotiations started, today is being negotiated, a chance to create a Council of Ministers, tonight in the news confirming the indictment of a single case that has already become banal. It may be a coincidence, but please assure me it's not a coincidence if it happens at the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u499	Time, fellow Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u500	I had two replicas. And just another sentence... missed in the last discussion, we have a problem,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u501	A fellow Simić,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u502	I had two replicas and Sulji Tihić and Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u503	But the Rules of Procedure with full respect... only if you want to take your word again immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u504	I won't, I won't thank you... 53
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u505	Thank you. Oh, well, I wouldn't really want to talk about math with some lawyers. Thank you. The following came to the word from distinguished counterpart Dragan Čović. And at the same time, after Mr. Čović has completed his address, I would like to pray because there are no more registered, club chiefs for a brief consultation on the course of the session. Because we in the College have already consulted on this, so let's just see each other, shall we? Here's your esteemed colleague, Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u506	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen at first I thought I'd apply at all, so here's when I estimated that there wasn't too much time and it didn't go along with this very important item of the agenda, but I decided to say two words, but not from the point of view, because I would be convincing what I would believe as a basic engineer could talk a lot. I am not a lawyer, here I am sitting in the company of the lawyers of the distinguished Mr. Tadić and Simić and many of you here and at home my wife was both a judge and a lawyer. But in life, you learn the most about some specific examples you're going through, so here I'm going to say that I have a rich life experience, not on my happiness and satisfaction, for 11 years to convince others that I will continue to believe in BiH as a legal state. But what I have taken most of the word here now, simply to say that our responsibility, all of us here in the legislative authority or one segment of the legislative authority, is the same in the second house of Parliament, as in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and all other institutions, including legislative meanings, but also in the executive authorities, because I see here is the Minister of Justice, his friend. That simply all of us together can make only legally arranged, modern BiH and the judiciary that will be absolutely independent. According to what Mr. Bradarić said, I would be from one of his categories, which he listed, which can speak in a coherent manner about what is today in the judiciary. I will say that by commenting again on Mr Simić, he has said only twice a disaster, in some specific cases that they are a disaster. Believe me, if I take myself for freedom here, I will not use it and abuse it for one reason only because I am sure that BiH will then become a legal state, it could say a hundred times disaster as an example to the judiciary. Today BiH is not a legal state, today in BiH the judiciary is not independent, it is strongly dependent, if there are cases to do so, I will be very happy to do so, not from this pay phone, but for those who will really try to have a modern state tomorrow, that any BiH citizen at any time can feel safe, calmly if he lived in accordance with BiH's laws and constitutions. The classic political lynch has been mentioned here several times, the classic political processes publicly recognised, published bestellers through our press, presses in BiH on the 60th page in the form of the indictment, which is then given in daily press. Through which you have a recognised criminal organization in which you have a president of the state, the President of the Constitutional Court, and not to list who else. In which the change of seven foreign prosecutors, you end up with the prosecution only giving up 6 people in the 7th process. And we entertained the public and spent the money full of three years, replaced one or two members of the presidency, one mentioned here through the name, the other I won't point out you're looking at it and the opportunity to show practically through these cases that neither the president of the state nor any ordinary BiH citizen can have any privilege when it comes to the BiH judiciary. But because he is a representative of a nation, some party in the House of Peoples or in the House of Representatives or Ministers or the President of the State must not even be exposed to a political link in that same state. And most absurd of all, it would be that most of you who are looking at me here, as well as most of those who are likely to listen to this, whom I was a colleague until two or three months ago in the House of Representatives, because I was elected there, at the last act of the prosecution here in Sarajevo, did not react exactly as my wife did at home, with extreme disgust – is it possible to do so today? And today your report is on the table, which is why I was obliged to come out, so tell you this, it's yours, Mr. Novković, and all of us here is to prevent these BiH courts from being managed by some powerful people, regardless of what reason they're doing it, highly politically motivated, by someone from outside, financially, that I'm not guessing for any reason at all. But these disasters spoken of by prominent lawyers must no longer be, and that is why our job here is to talk about it very openly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u507	I thank Mr. Čović. Could the club bosses just give us a moment of brief consultation? /Consultation with club chiefs/ I thank the chairman of the clubs. We agreed to continue to work to exhaust the agenda with what they will tell you when they return to their seats in terms of rational use of time, and all for other obligations that exist here and are related to the work of both the House of Nations and the delegates themselves. Thank you. If there are no more applications for discussion, then I'll conclude the discussion. Excuse me, is there anyone else who would like to participate in the debate? My colleague Nermina Kapetanović, I would only ask that you report it. Thank you, dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u509	I thank you for the opportunity that you gave me the opportunity to discuss, I didn't really mean to answer, but I was offered a series of discussions of experts from this branch. I am known to the representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as a person who was in Parliament's House of Representatives of the Federation during the debate on judicial reform strongly against this reform, because the report of the Independent Judicial Neighbours... did not match what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council presented to the representatives of the Federation Parliament on the arguments and justification of judicial reform. And the thing that bothered me the most about all of it, and what I did 55 the most, was to attach the courts to the basic courts. Given the fact that I felt that the process would slow down even more, the process, so waiting for certain items, and that in some way it would come to an outdated case, so making sure that, I suppose, even to this day's law... has never been passed. I simply felt that I was in a group of MPs who had had a very courageous discussion at the House of Representatives, who had previously consulted with their colleagues, so your fellow judges who also felt that judicial reform had not been well understood at the time. However, I read this material very carefully, so I listened to Mr. Novković's exposure very, very carefully. And I really must say that I am one of those, and in the wake of Mr. Tihić's discussion, that I am one of those who think that, that the intensities of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, their good intentions are at least recognized by my colleagues and, let's say, by my club, we are, we recognize your efforts to really reform the judiciary, so in the way it is set up properly. I understand your intention and your need to join the constitutional change process in BiH, and I don't think that would be a problem. It seems to me that part of the discussion today was of a political nature, but immediately in advance, I apologize to those who have felt the full burden of the inconvenience of court proceedings, with which I deeply as a man have sympathised when it comes to my colleagues sitting here today and thank Bog for being released, therefore the indictment. I think we still have to try as a high home to find mechanisms and ways to help the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, so to advance reforms, to move forward. So we don't need them, cutting their wings in their intention to succeed, stabilising a judicial system that certainly has a deficiency that you more as experts have the right to talk about, but I don't want to, so as a doctor to be misunderstood and health care has many, many shortcomings, but we have to let it develop, to move forward, to do everything we can to improve it. And so I think it might be correct to accept this report and therefore, indeed, I do seem to be good intentions of Mr. Novković and his colleagues, to try to help them and to accept this report or to receive it for knowledge or what to call it. So, my intention is just to help them, I figured out the report, I read it, I don't want to deny everything my esteemed colleagues have said, but I will still support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u510	Thank you, dear colleague Kapetanović. There are no others reported for discussion. I think we've exhausted the discussion. And now we're voting on whether or not the report is received by the House of Peoples. I invite you to initiate the process, I apologize, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u511	56 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u512	I really don't have a problem with that, Mr. Novković, I've looked in your direction three or four times, calling because you don't have a button to sign up for. But you didn't give your hand, nor did you give any gesture. Here's how I'm going to ask the delegates if they have anything against it, because we've moved on to phase two, so do you agree that Mr. Novković? You agree, thank you. Mr. Novkovic, here you go, so for the record, we're returning the whole point to the debate stage because Mr. Novković didn't have the technical opportunity to apply. And he probably didn't expect to raise his hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u513	Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u514	Nothing, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u515	The chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, has made it possible for me to speak briefly. I will krenuće with the first question, the remarks of the delegates, Mrs. Krišto, I do not want to comment on the fact that she took a very high position in BiH at the time, has all the comments on the election of the Constitutional Court judges, anyone can make an insight into it. When it comes to discussing my colleague, Mr. Krstan Simić, I read the verdict, I would not comment on it here, we can comment on the decision somewhere, and his remarks on the upgrade of the BiH judiciary reform I fully accept and I think that this will now be achieved through this structural dialogue. When it comes to Mr. Merdžo, the letter from the D.A.'s Office, I realize that for a year and a half it's been a long time, but you realize there's a lot, a lot of these complaints, and I'm going to pass this on to the D.A.'s chief prosecutor, all right. When it comes to the matter of a gentleman, a respected delegate, I Staša be free to say that we too are burdened by the Strategy for the Process of War Crimes, and this is one of our key tasks of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and I, as President of the Council, am well and mostly engaged in the implementation of this strategy. However, when it comes to the case of Alijagić, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has nothing to do with it, nor what we can do about it, if we were to dictate how to judge cases, then it would not be an independent judiciary, or it could only happen in totalitarian systems. It's true that we choose judges and choose this one, prosecutors. However, whoever submits a disciplinary application to the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office can assess whether he has responsibility or no responsibility at the Office of the High Prosecutor. Here in front of all of you delegates, I promise that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council will pay special attention in 57 years to the processing of war crimes cases, because we really have many, many objections from the public, and we also feel that these cases could and should be processed within the deadlines set by the Strategy, with one note that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not bring a strategy, but that it brought the Council of Ministers Strategy and we inform the Council of Ministers every 6 months about it. When it comes to me personally as the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, be assured of me, no one can put pressure on me and I mean that no one puts pressure on me. Neither does the pressure on me, Mr. Čović, nor Mr. Dodik, nor does the pressure on me, Mr. Tihić, nor does the OHR pressure on me, nor anyone else. According to that, I am truly grateful that no one puts pressure on me. I'm doing my job independently, I can make a mistake on purpose, but I'm trying to make this judiciary independent, and I'm asking you to understand that the five or six-year deadline is too short for us to create an entirely independent judiciary. It is absolutely certain that this structural dialogue, your discussions on these homes, will make one significant contribution to the second phase of justice reform and structure, that we will still build an independent and impartial judiciary. I also regret the persons where there are and if there are certain, certain charges, certain proceedings which are unfounded, and we have not ignored that either of us and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council meetings on this issue, but understand the role of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that it has the powers that are prescribed. We can't challenge any judge to judge one way or another, we can't suggest anyone out, press charges or not press charges, but we can evaluate through the work, what he said, Mr. and I do it, Tihić whether there are a lot of these negative charges and we do it and we do it. Thank you again for allowing me to respond briefly and I hope that we will build an independent judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u516	I thank Mr. Novković. An esteemed colleague, Borjana Krišto, appeared to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u517	Thank you very much. I will try very briefly, but I will say that after this, now Mr. Novković's exit and answer to these comments, I am convinced that he and I do not know what it says in this report of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And I think it's really pointless and legally unfounded, and it's too bad to say any attempt to favour the Law on the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, I'm going to refer to what he said when it comes to the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, because the role of the Federation Constitution is known in relation to the laws. And this established fact also applies to laws imposed by the international community. So in this sense, I just wanted to come forward and say that what is really written in this report is unfounded and that it is harmful for the institutions of the system and in and in, and all in order to say the appointments of an independent, efficient, professional judiciary that we have all sought through these discussions. 58 So here's my finding was that really given what's written inside and this report and at the beginning what he told us in jurisdiction is actually contradictory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u518	I thank Mrs. Krišto. And I realize, therefore, that there are no more reports. Thank you. I ask you to initiate a vote on whether or not the report is received. Thank you. The vote is over. Out of the 12 delegates present, three delegates voted against, seven delegates were detained, two delegates were detained. From Federation 3 to, 3 against, 2 abstentions. From RS 4 against. There is no general or entity majority, therefore I find that this report has not been received. Thank you. Moving to the point of the 16th agenda of Ad. 16. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-457/11 of 26.05.2011 You have received the Commission's opinion on foreign trade policy in customs, traffic and communications. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Hasan Bećirović, if he wants to? No, I don't. Thank you. I give my word to a representative of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, if he wants to? He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. Thank you. We're going to vote on the report. _________(?) Mr. Chairman, my only system warns me there is no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u528	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates. I will try in the shortest lines to explain only certain parts of the report. You saw, you have the report in front of you, it's quite extensive. And this is how when you look at the Commission's recommendation on finance and the budget of the House of Peoples, it can be concluded that by taking the report into account rather than adopting that something is wrong, as regards the work of the Board of Appeal. I would like to point out a few facts here, the Board of Appeals received 1,831 complaints last year, resolved 1,794 complaints. This is an increase in the number of complaints resolved compared to the previous year by about 25%. Since the beginning of the Office of Appeals' work in 2006 to 62 today, we have a constant increase in the number of complaints received and the number of complaints resolved, which shows that a huge job has been done during this period. Let me remind you, in 2006, the number of complaints received was over 600, and the number of complaints resolved was over 150. And every year, we've had a constant growth of appeal. If only a similar situation is compared to similar organs in our environment, you can see that the largest number of complaints in BiH are accepted and resolved. And let's say that the countries in the environment have results like the Board of Appeals, it's certain that at least what would happen is that such a report is supported. I will only give an example of the Republic of Austria, a similar body of the Board of Appeals, as means EU members who had about 250 complaints last year. These 250 complaints were resolved by 14 Senates per 3 members, which means that each Senate, or every council, annually, meant that they resolved between 10 and 15 complaints annually. On the other hand, in one assembly, the Board of Six Members resolved 1,794 complaints. I think it's about the size of the job that's been done. It's a similar situation in the countries of the environment. Let's say the Slovenac had one last year, their state commission had about 420 complaints somewhere. In Montenegro, the number was about 400, in Macedonia somewhere near 900, in Serbia something over 1,000, and the only number of complaints is similar to the Republic of Croatia, with them far away, their state commission has somewhat broader powers that include issues of concessions that do not have an Office. So you can see from this parallel display what a huge inflow of objects is in the office. On the other hand, from the beginning the Office has not enough space, not enough people available, I would simply like at least members of the Finance and Budget Commission to come to see, the Office is literally choking in the space with documentation, with a number of files that is somewhere around 8,000 which is measured by tones. And all the measures we were planning to start this year, where we had the approval of the D.A. and the Ministry of Finance, to increase the bar of that accommodation space, we had to cancel the documentation for reasons you know, which is the temporary financing of BiH institutions, so nothing could go further, as far as it was concerned. Another major problem with the Office for the Review of Appeals where we have partly pointed out in the Work Report is that two key public procurement institutions, which are the Public Procurement Agency and the Board of Appeals, are in a situation that because of a number of wrong moves made by the Public Procurement Agency, all of these are negatively reflected in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals and the entire public procurement system, and I have stated here that only some moves, some of the wrong moves of the Public Procurement Agency, which are documented in court decisions, which are an integral part of the report, which you have before you, have so far cost more than tens of millions of KM. So, here I just wanted to draw attention to this situation, and I think it is to welcome the conclusion that the House of Representatives of Parliament has brought to the House of Representatives which has educated a special body composed of representatives of the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Public Procurement Agency and the Office to look at some of the wrong moves that have been seen so far and to try to find better solutions that would not have done the damage it has been so far, I repeat, primarily because of some of the wrong moves of the Public Procurement Agency. 63 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u529	I thank Dr. Pilav. No other applications for discussion? There isn't. We're moving on to a plea. I thank you. The vote is over. Of the 11 present, it was 10 against 1. From Federation 7 for, from RS 3 to, 1 against. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals was received in 2010. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 01.01.2010 to 31.12.2010, material number: 03-50-19- 318-11/11 from 04.05.2011 You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission adopted a report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period 2010. The House of Representatives didn't adopt the report. Chairman Krstan Simić does not ask for a word. Thank you. A representative of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance shall not ask for a word. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Now we have an interesting situation. So the vote is over. Of the 11th, 7 were in, 4 against. From Federation 7 to RS 4 against. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority and there are no members of the College to consult with them. _________(?) It's an ex post adjustment.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u538	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman as vice president of the Croatian People's Club I propose to Mrs. Borjana Krišto as a member of the Interresor Group.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u539	Thank you. Dear colleague Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u540	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of our Club, a member of the commission should be Mr Dragutin Rodić, we propose him.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u541	Thank you. Dear fellow Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u542	From the Bosnjak Club Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-14-0.u543	And I thank you for this proposal. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion. The vote is over. Of the 12 present, it was 12. From Federation 8, from Serbia 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have adopted the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to prepare the amendment and addition of the BiH Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH, and the Interresor Working Group of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appointed: a respected colleague Borjana Krišto, a respected colleague of Dragutin Rodić and a respected colleague Halid Genjac. That's how we exhausted this agenda point. Now let's go with the usual practice. On the agenda of today's session, we still have the agreement to ratify agreements, conventions, contract protocols, alterations of contracts and declarations. I propose, on behalf of the College, that we bring together the debate on the submission of 68 consent to ratify the agreement, the convention, the contract protocol, the amendment of the contract and the declaration from point 27 to point 54, including point 54. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the agreement, the convention, the concise protocol, changes in contracts and declarations. I give my word to the chairman of the committee to Mr Hasan Bećirović. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's in favor of this one, then? Is there any need to discuss it? There isn't. Thank you. Now we're voting first, so we're talking about whether or not we're uniting these points? Start the vote. Thank you. Of the 12, 12 were in favor. From Federation 8, from Serbia 4. There's a general and entity majority, so I figure we've adopted this conclusion. We are now voting in favour of the ratification of the agreement, the convention, the contract protocol, the change of contract and the declaration from point 27 to point 54, including point 54. Start the vote. Thank you. The vote is closed. Of the 12, 12 were in favor. From Federation 8, from Serbia 4. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have given consent to the ratification of the agreement, the convention, the contract protocol, the amendment of the contract and the declaration of point 27, at the conclusion of point 54, including point 54. We've exhausted today's agenda. I thank you for your cooperation, and I wish you a pleasant extension of the day. Session completed at 3:45 p.m.
