ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, the Central Election Commission, the Ombudsman for Human Rights and the International Community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before establishing the quorum, I would like to ask the technical service to help Mr Bećirović... So there are 15 delegates present at the session and all the clubs of the people in full. The following agenda is proposed for the 4th session 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure, No 01,02-02-5-6010, of 28. Ten. 2010, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-02-5-6410, of 8. 11. 2010. (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-02-9-5710, of 18. Ten. 2010. (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-02-9-5810, of 18. Ten. 2010. (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina seal law, No 01,02-02-5-5110, of 30. 8. 2010. (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the application and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-02-5-5210, of 30. 8. 2010. (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Emergency Payment of Indirect Taxes, No 01,02-02-1-1011, of 24. 5. 2011 (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Single Parent Number Act, No 01,02-02-7-5510, of 11. Ten. 2010. (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens, No 01,02-02-7-5410, of 11. Ten. 2010. (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's future institutions and Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2009 international obligations, material No 01,02-16-1-91710, of 13. Seven. 2010; 13. Report on the 2009 report on the implementation of the 2009 Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, material No 01-16-1-112310, of 8. Ten. 2010; 14. Consideration of audit reports for 2009 (from point 1. The BiH State Service Agency until point 62. Report from the BiH Plant Health Administration (material delivered 30. Six. 2010.I mean, you know, it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like, it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it''s like it's like... it's like... it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like... it's like it's like... it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like... it's like it's like it's like it's like... it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like it's like... BiH State Service Agency; 2. Public procurement agencies of BiH; 3. Supervisory agencies over BiH's market; 4. Insurance agencies in BiH; 5. BiH postal transport agencies; 6. Foreign Investment promotion agencies in BiH; 7. BiH Labour and Employment Agency; 8. BiH Statistics Agency; 9. BiH Personal Data Protection Agency; 10. BiH Archives; 11. Central Election Commissions of BiH; 12. Directorates for the European Integration of BiH; 13. State regulatory agencies for radiation and nuclear safety; 14. The General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. BiH Border Police; 16. Ombudsmen for Consumer Protection in BiH; 17. Institute for Accreditation of BiH; 18. Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH; 19. BiH Standardisation Institute; 20. Competition Council of BiH; 21. Public Service Committee for BiH; 22. BiH's defences; 23. BiH Communications Regulatory Agency – RAK; 24. Court of BiH; 25. Prosecution of BiH; 26. Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office; 27. BiH Council of Ministers' Legislative Office; 28. High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH; 29. Agency for identification documents, records and data exchange; 3 30. Pre-school, primary and secondary education agencies; 31. Higher education and quality assurance agencies; 32. Centre for Information and Recognition of Higher Education Documents; 33. Mine removal centre in BiH – BHMAK; 34. Memorial center of Srebrenica; 35. BiH Civil Affairs Ministry; 36. Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH; 37. Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH; 38. BiH Justice Ministry; 39. Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH; 40. Institutions of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH; 41. Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 42. BiH Presidency; 43. BiH Joint Affairs Services; 44. Direct Taxation Administrations of BiH; 45. Offices for Consideration of Albi; 46. BiH Veterinary Office; 47. Constitutional Court of BiH; 48 BiH Food Safety Agency; 49. BiH Civil Aviation Directorates; 50. Directorates for Economic Planning of BiH; 51. State Investigation and Protection Agency; 52. BiH Return Fund; 53. Institute of Measurement of BiH; 54. The BiH Missing Persons Institute; 55. Commission for concessions of BiH; 56. Commission for the Conservation of the National Monuments of BiH; 57. BiH Defence Ministry; 58. Ministry of Security of BiH; 59. BiH Foreign Ministry; 60. The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees; 61. Foreign Affairs Services; 62. BiH Plant Health Protection Administrations; 15. Report by the Central Election Commission of BiH on the implementation of the law in the responsibilities of the Central Election Commission for 2010, material number; 01-02-07-297-11, of 12. 4. 2011 16. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2010, material No 01-50-19-33411, of 26. 4. 2011; 17. Financial Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2010, material No 01-50-19-33511, of 26. 4. 2011; 18. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH for 2010, material No 01,02-37-51411, of 6. Six. 2011; 19. Information on the state of public debt of BiH on 31 March 12. 2009, material number 01,02-16-1-74210, of 4. Six. 2010; 4 20. Report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Citizens' Committee for 2010 of 16. 3. 2011; 21. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2010 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2011, material number 062-50-1-51-1211, dated 28. 1. 2011; 22. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2010, material No 01,02-50-19-31311, dated 18. 4. 2011; 23. Annual report on the results of the 2010 Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material No 01-12-34111, of 28. 4. 2011; 24. Special Report on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Material of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-12-141210, of 16. 12. 2010; 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance (proposed by the Joint College of both homes); 26. The appointment of the Director and two Deputy Directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (Commission's proposal for a Commission candidate to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency), material No 01.02-50-1-910-510, of 11. 1. 2011; 27. Proposal for the appointment of one representative of the academic community at the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (Proposal of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes), material No 01,02-50-1441-610, of 30. 8. 2010; 28. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska (the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH), No 01.02-50-3-111710, of 7. Ten. 2010; 29. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of Montenegro on co-operation in geodesy affairs; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security, with the Administrative Agreement on how to implement the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Insurance; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement for the financing of the "Rad" Sarajevo equipment project between BiH, which represents the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Unicredit Bank Austria AG; 32. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of the drţave of Kuwait; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH and Republika Srpska-European Investment Bank's Funding Treaty – Water and Retirement of the RS; 34. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Guarantee Treaty for the International Airport of Sarajevo between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 35. Providing approval for ratification of amendments and additions to Treaty No 1 for the loan agreement of 9. 12. 2005 (regional railway project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 5 36. Giving consent to ratification of the Faculty Protocol under the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted on 10 December 2008 in New York; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Culture Programme (2007-2013).; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of a state bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj and the associated border sections of the highway on Corridor Vc; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how to finance the development of the main project, and the delivery of administrative procedures for the assessment of environmental impacts, the procurement of local permits, the consent and construction permits for the project "Rehabilitation and modernisation of the Sava waterway from Racinovac to Sisak"; 40. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in the area of agriculture; 41. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Guarantee Agreement for the company "Horizon and sewerage" A.D., Bijeljina, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 42. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada drţave Kipar on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes; 43. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement – Municipal level of support for infrastructure projects – under the multi-user IPA 2008 programme between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank; 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Government of the Republic of Austria, represented by the federal finance minister, on financial co-operation; 45. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Austria on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income and property taxes; 46. Giving consent to ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage – Strasbourg, 8. 11. 2001; 47. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between the European Union, as a lender, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a borrower, and the Central Bank of BiH, as a paying agent for the borrower; 48. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on the meu-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u-u- Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro on legal aid in civil and criminal matters; 50. Giving consent to the ratification of the Flood Protection Protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement; 51. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for Co-operation on Security between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of the drţave of Katar; 6 52. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Economic Commission of the United Nations for Europe (UNECE) and the National Institutions of Participants (NPI) – the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of realising the project – Funding investments in energy efficiency to mitigate climate change This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the People's House. I am opening a discussion on this agenda and I urge you to make your proposals for a possible change of agenda. Who's calling for re-up? I know, but I'm waiting. Dear colleague Krstan Simić, please...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the 158th edition of the 158th in relation to the 105nd and 182. Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held at its 3rd session, held on 27th Seven. In 2011, she considered the proposal for a law on the application of DNA results in court proceedings, proposed by the Council of Ministers, and suggested that the House adopt the following conclusion at the next session: 'The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly approves the extension and extends the amendment phase for the Bill's proposal, so that the amendment phase lasts no later than 48 degrees until the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Commission is held at which the draft law will be discussed in the second phase.' You've also got your reasons in writing, and I'm going to do it again in a short while. It is a law already under way from the last call (adopted at the Parliamentary Assembly). He had some issues of concern when there was a procedure in the House of Peoples and now we are in a position to continue our activities on the adoption of this very important law, so I think it is necessary to speed up and create conditions for this law to be adopted as quickly as possible but also to be a quality content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u205	I thank my colleague Simić. The debate continues, is anyone else answering for a solution? Okay. If there isn't, I thank you. So, this is Mr Simić's proposal, which would be included as the 53rd grade of this agenda. Thank you. And, since this is a proposal from the Constitutional Commission, I ask the Technical Service to prepare this all it takes to make it known here in this electronic edition of this session. Thank you. I now invite you to come forward with Mr Simić's proposal. So, I'll start the vote. I find that after the debate on the agenda in the vote... in the first round of 15 there voted 15 delegates 'yes', of ĉega Federation 10, of RS Five, the conditions of 7 general and entity majority were met, so Mr Simić's proposal was adopted on behalf of the Constitutional Commission of the People's House. Now, in the second round of voting, we're going to vote on a full agenda. The results of the vote... after a debate on the agenda,... a united agenda with a proposal adopted earlier by the Constitutional Commission: of the 15 present 15 voted 'yes'; from Federation 10, from RS Five. The conditions related to the general and entity majority have been met, and I find that the proposed agenda has been adopted. We move on to the first item of the agenda: Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? I don't have any applications for discussion. Thank you. I'm starting the vote. Voting on regular number 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the House of Nations, in the first round: of the 15 present 15 voted 'yes'; from Federation 10, from RS Five. The general and entity majority are satisfied. The submitted minutes of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples were adopted. We're moving on to another agenda: ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u208	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, dear colleagues, the members of the Council of Ministers, the media, the guests, I warmly welcome you all. 8 And I have one question to ask the Justice Department. The minister is here. He can answer right now. If not, then in writing. I ask the BiH Ministry of Justice: 'što ĉini the BiH State of Austria do to free itself from the BiH Grain Jovan Divjak, the merits of the integrity and independence of the BiH state are immeasurable and what is it doing in contact with the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to stop such activities, to which is the international state contract binding on me?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u209	Thank you. Does... the Minister of Justice ţeli to respond or does he want to make a statement in writing? Therefore, a statement on this delegate issue will be submitted in writing. Thank you. Do any of the delegates want to take part in this debate? No, I don't. I thank you. I would like to conclude the 2nd agenda of the "Reply to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions". The next item of the agenda is the third item: Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministerial and Other Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure, number: 01,02-02-5-60/10, of 28. Ten. 2010 In accordance with Organisation 122. The Rules of Procedure on the request for review under the urgent procedure of the House shall be decided after the hearing. I would remind you that the predstavniĉki of Representatives has not adopted a request to consider the draft law by emergency procedure. The draft law will be considered in accordance with the ordinary procedure. The amendments to this particular proposal shall not be introduced in accordance with Article 122(3). I'm opening a debate on this agenda. An imported delegate named Halid Genjac came forward. Here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u211	Dear Chairman, I think that the Council of Ministers' initiative is welcome, that it is extremely important that this issue be resolved as soon as possible, and that I therefore fully support that this law be adopted by emergency procedure because, given the position in which we are on the way to the EU and in view of our aspirations, I think it is good that this law, which is possible to resolve the issue of these three institutions as soon as possible, is in line with the EU's applicable and binding standards that we are pursuing. So, I support the emergency procedure and the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u212	I thank Mr. Genjac for his core discussion. I invite you to report for entry in the debate if you wish. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm starting a vote on this request. So, we're voting on the procedure, whether or not we're going to consider the bill in English 122. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, and that's our first vote. I figure it's... on the count of three. The request of the Council of Ministers, in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' voted seven, 'against' voted six, 'abstained' was one delegate; from the Federation 'for' voted seven, 'against' voted two delegates and one delegate was 'abstained'. Four delegates voted against the RS, no one 'for', no one 'abstained'. I find that there is a general majority for such a request, but there is no entity majority, namely, no such request was adopted. Note that here it stands with me: if he does not accept consideration of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the House decides whether the law will be considered in accordance with Rule 121. The Rules of Procedure or by regular procedure, i.e. there should be an agreement within the College... and then a second round of voting. So we have no agreement on this question. We're starting the second round of voting. Thank you. In the second round of voting, therefore, the request of the Council of Ministers, of the 14 present 'for' was 12, 'against' two. From the Federation of nine delegates 'for', 'against' one, from the RS three delegates 'for', 'against' one, the general and entity majority were fulfilled, so now we move on to considering this law by regular procedure. We are now voting on whether or not we will consider the proposal for a brief procedure in accordance with Article 121 of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. My fellow Genjac, I understand my care at my desk. A fellow Genjac called in for a re-up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u213	Just a business intervention. I mean, we've cast a vote on whether or not we're going to consider the law by emergency procedure. There was no entity in the first round, so that qualified majority was reached in the second round. So a procedure has been adopted for the law to be considered in the emergency procedure and we are now moving on to a debate on the law. Thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u214	A fellow Genjac, therefore a colleague of Simić, did you report for re-enactment? I'm asking you to do this... Borjana Krišto, your fellow law schoolmates, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u215	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, Vice-Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, media, I welcome you all. Here, since we have spoken about the procedure of the law and, of course, the procedure for this law to be considered in an urgent procedure is not accepted before this house, but rather to be considered in the ordinary procedure, so that would be the first time. In accordance with business provisions, this law must pass certain committees in order to open a debate on this law. Thank you, and I hope we stick to business provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u216	I would suggest something that is the way out of this situation – unless we want to explain the situation which is the product of the misunderstanding – by the end of this session, which is to repeat this vote and to delegates, if I was not clear enough earlier, so they have in mind now, in the second round of voting, whether we are going through this law by emergency procedure, i.e. in a short procedure. So, we are obliged by the Rules of Procedure to make a statement twice and a second time, therefore, by declaring ourselves entity-based. So if you agree, I'd... A colleague, Krstan Simić, called for a discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u217	Chairman, it's obvious there's been some confusion. We, all of us who voted, voted whether the law goes into regular procedure, which you put to the vote. If this is a technical error or a bullet in the consultation, I suggest a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u218	Thank you, fellow Simić. So, I said that after consultations in which the College did not reach an agreement, we reiterate the vote set out by the Rules of Procedure as a vote on the entity majority, so-called. Here, thank you. So we repeat the vote on an emergency procedure request. So, who's for emergency procedure, that vote "yes." Who is 'against', like me, votes 'against'. Thank you. In the vote..., practically re-voted, on the 3rd agenda: in the first round of 14 there were seven, 'against' seven. From the Federation there were seven "for" three. From the RS, there were four 'against'. So the general majority is not satisfied either, and thus the 11 entity majority is not satisfied. We find that this requirement for short procedure, i.e. urgent procedure, has been rejected. Now, in short procedure, here's my apologies, okay. We're crossing now. I'm sorry, really. The preparation of this reminder can be different from ţivota, so Marin is trying to make his contribution, which is very useful, I must tell you. So now we're going to the regular procedure of this law. Now we're voting on short procedure, okay. This is all about this electronic system. We're going back to the agenda. We're starting a vote on whether or not we're going into short procedure, in the first round. Thank you. ...the vote on whether it went into a shortened procedure: in the first round of 14 present 'for' was seven, 'against' was seven. From Federation seven 'for', 'against' three, from RS four 'against'. There is no general or entity majority. This law goes into regular procedure. I'm finding out, and we're going to the next agenda. Next item of the agenda, item 4. Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-5-64/10, of 8. 11. 2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second run. The second question is that amendments are being discussed and the bill is being voted on. You've received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Order. The Constitutional Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in BiH in the proposed text. I am giving the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, my colleague, Krstan Simić. Please, if you have, of course, if you like.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u220	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u221	Dear fellow Simić, just to let you know, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u222	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, given the fact that you have received all written reports from the Constitutional Legal Commission, for efficiency, I suggest that you have 12 written reports in the future and that we do not have to submit, of course, that it remains with the written report for each agenda... and there are one 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u223	Thank you, fellow Simić. A constructive discussion. So now I'm giving a registration proposal to the law, if it's present. Mr. Alak doesn't want a solution. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Is anyone picking up for re-up? I don't see anyone on the monitor that's been reported. Thank you. I'm starting the vote. I find that in the vote... on taièka 4 in the first round of 14 present 'for' there were 14; from Federation 10, from RS - Four. The general and entity majority are satisfied, and I find that it was adopted in the identical text as in the House of Representatives of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Law of Law in BiH. Thank you. We're moving on to "Ad." 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-9-57/10, of 18. Ten. 2010. (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Given the second debate, the amendments are under discussion and the bill is being voted on. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Constitutional Commission has adopted the draft law with four amendments. The House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish BiH institutions with three amendments. Given that Mr Simić has already said his opinion on whether to take a solution to each individual issue, I am now giving a ruling to the law if it is present. Mr. ĉolak doesn't want to take the solution. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? Niko. Thank you. Now we're voting on the bill. I find that the vote... on taddik 5 in the first round: out of 14 present 14 delegates there were 'yes'; from Federation 10, from RS four. The general and entity majority are satisfied and I agree that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions has been adopted. 13 Since the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish BiH institutions has been adopted in a different text compared to the House of Representatives, we now need to approach the establishment of a Joint Committee on Text Coordination. I call upon the heads of the delegates' clubs to delegate the members of this committee. In a row, Mr. Genjac, can you do it? Excuse me, excuse me, please. You have to sign in and I'll let you know. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u225	The Bošnjak Club proposes to Nermin Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u226	Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović. The club of delegates of the Croatian people. I'm sorry, really, for the record, we have to do all this. Dear Lady Krišto, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u227	Here, in front of the Croatian People's Club, we propose Mr. Stjepan Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u228	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of delegates of the Serbian people, Košarac reported on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u229	In the name of the club will be the chairman of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u230	Staša Košarac. Thank you. You've made suggestions. Any other suggestions? No, thank you. I'm asking the tech service to launch an ad hoc vote. Thank you. I find that in the vote in the first round of 14 present 'for' there were 14; from Federation 10, from the RS, the four. Both the general and the entity majority were satisfied and the Commission's meetings were selected, consisting of: Nermina Kapetanović, Stjepan Krešić and Staša Košarac. Thank you. We move on to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-9-58/10, of 18. Ten. 2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH 14 This is a second run. The second question is that amendments are being discussed and the bill is being voted on. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Constitutional Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH in the proposed text. Mr. Krstan Simić on behalf of this commission? He doesn't want to. I'll give re-enlist if he's present. He didn't propose he didn't want a solution. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up for re-up? No Niko's answering for re-up, thank you. We're voting on the bill. In the... vote on the 6th period: out of 14 in the first round, there were 14; from Federation 10, from Republika Srpska. Both general and entity majority satisfied. I find the following: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in BiH has been adopted in the identical text as well as in the House of Representatives. We're moving on to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina seal law, issue: 01,02-02-5-51/10, of 30. 8. 2010 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u234	It's a Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u235	It's a Bradarić. A fellow Košarac player, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u236	...as in the previous, chairman of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u237	Mr. Košarac. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u238	So in front of the Croatian People's Club I suggest...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u239	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, but I haven't approved yet. Here you go, wet lady Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u240	Thank you very much. In front of the Croatian People's Club, we propose Mr Stjepan Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u241	Krešić. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Ad hoc vote again, please run it. Thank you. In the vote... in the first round: of the 13 present 'for' was 13; from Federation nine, from Republika Srpska's Four. The general and entity majority are satisfied, and I find that for the members of the Joint Committee on Harmonization of the text Proposal for the Law of the House of Peoples, colleagues are appointed: Mehmed Bradarić, Staša Košarac and Stjepan Krešić. We move on to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Emergency Payment of Indirect Taxes, No: 01,02-02-1-10/11, of 24. 5. 2011 (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the second debate, and in the second question there is a debate on amendments and votes on the bill. You've received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission. The Financial and Budget Committee adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of forced collection of indirect taxes in the proposed text. I'm a colleague of Simić. I'm sorry, I'm giving the chairman of the Finance Commission and the future to Dr Dragan ĉoviću. Dr. ĉović says this report is enough. Now I'm giving re-enquiring the bill, if it's present. Who's on behalf of the proposer? _________(?) 17 /no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u244	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u245	No need, thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. Are any of the delegates present in the debate? No, thank you. Now we're going to vote on the bill. Thank you. In the vote... on the 9th agenda in the first round: out of 13 present 'for' there were 13 delegates; from Federation nine, from Republika Srpska, met both the general and entity majority. I find that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure of forced collection of indirect taxes has been adopted in the identical text as well as in the House of Representatives. Thank you. I'm moving on to the 10th agenda: ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act, No 01,02-02-7-55/10, of 11. Ten. 2010 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first entry of the bill and the 100th Amendment. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission accepted the principles of the draft law. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first place. I am giving the President of the Commission to Krstan Simić, who has already declared himself. I propose to this law, if it is present. _________(?) Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u248	... as chairman, ladies and gentlemen, media representatives, I would ţelim to address the question that I will explain to the representatives of the Council of Ministers, that is, that resolution proposed by this law. I would like to know at what stage the BiH state is related to the adoption of a personal identification number law, which represents a step higher than the Single Mother Number Act. We know that by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, BiH has taken over the obligations of harmonising domestic legislation with the EU's legal status. A positive example was made by the Republic of Croatia back in 2008 in May when it adopted the Law on Personal Identification Number, which represents the 11-digit number which is the requirement, the basic EU requirement; with a 12-digit number, we cannot communicate with them and exchange data related to citizens and institutions. The very big thing about that number is that these 11 digits, 10 is randomly selected, the eleventh number is actually the number that's the personal number of the individual. There is no insight into the privacy of a certain person as we now have the experience of having in a unique mother number, the fact that the date of your birth, protects the privacy of a person. But what would be very interesting and very important for BiH, as was the case with the Republic of Croatia, the aim of passing such a law is to inform the public administration in general, to increase the efficiency of the state administration and to create discharge, administrative discharges for BiH citizens. The personal identification number and such a system of functioning of the number are the most innovative measure in the fight against corruption, which is very significant for BiH, knowing that BiH is high on corruption, given that it provides a better overview of the assets of citizens and legal persons and controls the inflow and flow of money, which is a key prerequisite for a transparent economy and systematic control of corruption, which I say is very present in BiH. There is another factor that would make it important for us to pass this law, which is a fair system of social giving, since in BiH we have multiple application of different rights based on, for example, the social giving system, which is avoided by adopting such a law. If we want to connect and automatically exchange data between all, so the authorities that keep official records, we will also make it easier for the citizens of BiH, since the citizens will no longer have so many lines of paperwork, there will be fewer paperwork and we will cut their administrative obligations on some side. What is even more important to me as a BiH citizen who is keenly seeking to be the EU's BiH official – this will bring BiH's legislation into line with EU legislation. So I ask the authorised proposals: at what stage is the adoption of the personal identification number law? Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u249	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Kapetanović. I suggest that if there are any further questions to report at the end of the review. An imported colleague of Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u250	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would only like to give one input to propose to this law. Since the existing Law on the Single Mother Number in 5 refers primarily to the names of the municipalities in BiH, to include the same double names of certain municipalities in RS, I would like to point out that at the beginning of the implementation of the CIPS project, and when forming the Central Register – as the basis for the introduction of the name of the municipality in BiH, the Single Mother Number Act, which was at the time, was the only regulation that contained the official names of municipalities in BiH. It should be pointed ĉinjenicu that in 2009, the RS adopted the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia, "Official Messenger" number: 69/09, where the names of municipalities in RS are so specific. I think in that context... you who are formal proposals should consider this fact as well. Of course,... I would also like ţelim point out that when this law was passed in the RS, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed parliamentary procedure in the National Assembly and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think there should be any problems in this context and that our formal proposal is very much leading to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u251	Thanks, Košarac. And beyond the discussion, I may also remind you of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH relating to the Electoral Law which so require, so that we should not go twice to the procedure of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. Are any of the delegates reporting for re-up, in the debate? As far as I can tell, there are no reports. I thank and conclude the debate. So, you suggested, do you wish, you didn't raise your hand. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ Okay,... you can't get a solution if you don't sign up for a discussion. So, you ţelite to? Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u253	Dear Presidency, MPs and other guests, ministers, I am from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and on behalf of the proposal, I can say that I cannot answer the first question specifically. I think it's working on it, and when it's going to be, at what stage, I really can't answer. As the second issue of Mr. Košarac is related to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision already in place, the Court of Justice of BiH has assessed that it is not in agreement with the Single Mother Number Act as the Election Law with the Constitution because it is necessary to respect the Lex Specialis of the Law of the Republic of Slovenia on the names of municipalities. We will be in a position to make a proposal for an amendment to implement this decision. Oh, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u254	I'm asking you to stay only on the pay phone to tell us the name and position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u255	Head of the Department of State at the Ministry of Civil Affairs in the Department of Nationality and Travel documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u256	What's your name?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u257	Savo Kojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u258	Thank you, Savo, for the record. Thank you. Are there any more reported for discussion? No, thank you. We move to a vote on the bill's proposal in the first article. Thank you. In the vote... on taièka 10th in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' was 13, one'remained'. From the Federation there were 10 "for", from the RS three were "for", one "remained". I find that there is a general and entity majority and I find that the bill on amendments and additions to the Single Mother Number Act was adopted in the first article. Thank you. We're moving on to Table 11. 21 Ad. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens, issue: 01,02-02-7-54/10, of 11. Ten. 2010 (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH Since the first reading is consistent with the 100th grade. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission accepted the principles of the Bill proposal and suggested the adoption of the following conclusion: 'It is intended to propose to the law, the Council of Ministers of BiH, in the amendment phase, to specify and do so on 9 July 9. The proposal for a law, as the session estimated that these provisions are vague and contradictory." (Completed quote). The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first article. Mr Simić, would you like to clarify this proposal for a conclusion? Rijeka has an esteemed colleague, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u260	This law, ladies and gentlemen, has caused a great deal of attention to the Constitutional Commission, a long debate has been held and you have seen and rarely happened that we did not have a single vote on the Constitutional Commission. Mr. Genjac has had some remarks that are quite questionable, and this is another opportunity for him to consider these other issues through his vote. We felt... that certain legal terminology and certain solutions really created confusion, that all the members of the Constitutional Commission were unanimous. And we really want the laws that come to us to be quality and to be easy to understand, because if those of us who deal with this business have caused certain reserves, ambiguities, how many people who are not in this direction are only going to be in this direction, and in the future we will resort to such practice – wherever technical ones are shown to be able to improve, we will suggest that we raise the quality of the bill that comes before this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u261	Thank you to your distinguished colleague Simić. I'll make a suggestion if he's present. Mr. Savo Kojić, on behalf of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u262	I welcome the re-enlisted presidency, the MPs, the ministers. The Council of Ministers wanted the proposal to address the real needs resulting from the practical application of e-signature regulations. However, here, they wanted to make more concrete changes, and compared to... concrete remarks made to 2. I just want to say that these changes relate to the reduction of the period of application of residence abroad: the citizen is being shortened to 3 months 22 after which in certain services he is obliged to report his residence abroad, which he refers to this way to the use of DKP services, which in practice is often avoided, because we have had huge problems that practically our citizens abroad do not have adequate contacts, and then our institutions abroad do not carry out their prescribed competencies, so this was the best way to try to solve it. Of course Parliament is there to appreciate how much we have succeeded, to issue orders if there is something to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u263	I would like to thank Mr. Kojić, who came forward on behalf of his proposal. I'm opening a debate. According to my records, a trusted colleague, Halid Genjac, came forward. Here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u264	Thank you, Chairman. So we're talking about the principles of the proposed law and the first question, and I'm going to look back on the principles of this law, and as far as they're questionable, we're going to evaluate it together. This law introduces four new principles, so it's a short law, it's a proposal to amend and supplement and introduce four... new principles. One of the new principles, therefore, is the first principle is the electronic signature, the application by electronic signature of designated documents, quite all right, necessary, important, urgent, supports everyone. The second principle, therefore, remains technical issues and the next, and I will look back at the larger things, the larger principles. The second principle introduced by the law, newspapers, in the application process of residence or residence: citizens are obliged to submit evidence that they have a valid legal basis for residence at the address they register. Well, then, the competent authority is obliged to re-check with others the validity of these evidences, etc. This is justice, justified, by the need to reduce the possibility of manipulation... address. There have been reports of fictitious addresses and instead of proposing that the registration of fictitious addresses be directed to those... who report fictitious addresses, the proposed law goes towards all those who report, log out, and change their residence, and those who do so well-intentioned, fair, legal; and those who do so illegally, to commit to obtaining legally valid evidence, and so far it has not been. We promote the manipulations of a number that have worked, and I ask the questions that are possible based on the practice so far that they are exposed to obtaining mother numbers, excerpts, birth certificates in various offices, you know, throughout Bosnia, where all manipulations are exposed and the possibilities of manipulation exposed to citizens if they stay this way. All citizens! So, given our current state of mind that we can't consider normal, we need to fix it, but that's how it is right now. That's why this principle is absolutely unacceptable to me. The next principle, the newspaper in this law, in the 9th grade. 'A citizen who lives abroad or abroad for more than three months is obliged to check out his residence in BiH', 23 please, and this justice, as he suggested, has just explained: that the communication of citizens outside and the DKP would improve. Now I'm going to give you at least a dozen opportunities to improve communication and propose, without this being the case. So, if a man goes on a long vacation abroad that could take more than three months, he is obliged to check out his residence in BiH. So last year Eurostat issued a protocol in which all population categories defined: a year and a year longer is the limits of residence and residence. If you've been somewhere longer than a year, you've been there; if you're somewhere shorter than a year, you're not there. This newspaper introduces this in-law on residence in this situation, especially when it comes to the time before the census, I think it is very careless and careless. And I think these principles for these reasons are totally unacceptable and unnecessary. Why three months? Where is this three-month period, if you're somewhere longer than three months out that you have to log out your country's residence? I really think it's unclear what the motive was for it to be three months? The next thing you know, I think we've made it clear, but we're more of an effort to understand what this writer was going to say, so in the 'creation', namely, one problem is the 'creation'... that referred to the question of family members and parents for the child, who can give consent to and the child log out of the residence. We've made that clear, technically it's been clumsyly formulated, it's been put in a place where you don't need to, and it's not decided to continue the text, etc. But that's settled. But I think because of these two principles at this time, and given that even in the Law on Changes to the Law on Statehood, a category of 'authorised residence' is introduced, so 'authorised residence', it is a complete newspaper, and looking at all of this in terms of residence and residence, which is changing with this law, I think these are principles which, in addition to the electronic application which is entirely justified, and this second one I see no justification, no need, no relief, except for what some motives there are at this point I can only assume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u265	I thank my fellow Genjac. A well-known colleague, Borjana Krišto, called. Here you go, colleague Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u266	Thank you very much. Here I will try not to repeat what the chairmans of the Constitutional Commission have said and, of course, through our conclusion and also by our learned colleague Genjac here. I will, for example, look back on the fact that we are really looking at the legislator of the law that the provisions of this regulation have to be changed in some way, that they are clear, precise, that they do not leave one ambiguous or requests for authentic interpretations when the law comes into force tomorrow and when our citizens, or the competent institutions, apply it. When we consider the 3rd year, which is changed to the 9th and reads: 'A citizen who lives abroad or stays abroad for more than three months is obliged to check out his residence and is obliged to report the place of residence abroad to the competent DKZ.' So, this standard is imperative. 24 We have a second item, i.e. this first item: 'A citizen who stays abroad for more than three months who does not intend to stay in the country where he currently resides and if he maintains an effective relationship with BiH is not obliged to check out his place of residence in BiH, his identity card is not taken away, but is due to the competent DKP to report his place of residence abroad and, on the basis of this place, to exercise all its rights and rights and services via the DKP." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, we have a situation where normally we have one imperative item, we have the other one that speaks of intent and an effective relationship. At this point, let's say I'm in a situation where I work at some agency, etc., I don't know how to act if this law had come into force. What, how, and on what purpose is the intention proved, and what is the effective connection? Are the crossings of the border etc. For some reason... This is what I wanted to say and support my fellow Genjac's debate and to say that the applicant has in mind these remarks which we have also spoken to at the Constitutional Commission and today at this debate and that the provisions of Article 3 of the amended law relating to Article 9 of the basic law are amended, as well as those of the provisions relating to the regulation concerning the termination of the child's right of residence. Given that this law has come into force by the High Representative, in fact, fundamentally, on that we may have come into a dilemma where it is unclear when it changes, we have a clumsy formulation of the basic law, so that I have also suggested to the Constitutional Commission that those members of the State who are referring to the change of child rights, when it comes to residence in relation to the request, and the consent of the parents – that the Committee should not vote on such a thing but that we should change it in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u267	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Are any of the other people present reporting for re-up? No, I don't. Thank you. Does he suggest adjudication have a need? Mr. Savo Kojić on behalf of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u268	Just a couple of resolutions for clarification. Which makes these effective connections in your law she's defined. An effective relationship has one who has family, family in BiH, or if he has a house, apartment, company owned, etc. Since it has been effectively decided by other laws on similar terms, we thought that this was not a problem. And as for these differences (1) and (2) the position of 9th, we thought it was clear when we formulated in attitude (2) the way we are, that whoever has an effective relationship and has no intention of ţivi abroad that he has no obligation to apply. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u269	I thank Mr. Kojić. 25 So I think it's important that, with all these materials that we get, we get the original parts of the laws to which the changes and additions apply. And that's what we talked about on some commissions. So, of course, we're not going to declare ourselves now in the form of a conclusion about all this, but it would be good if we had already considered it as a subject that we have to define ourselves on. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill in the first place. I'm starting the vote. Thank you. In the vote... on Taco 11 in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' voted 10, 'against' two,'remained' two. From the Federation of Six Delegates voted 'yes', two were 'against', two 'abstained'. The Republika Srpska delegates were 'yes'. The conditions have been met for the general majority and entity majority, and I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens was adopted in the first article. We are now voting on the komisija's zakljuĉku. Would you like some ad hoc, please? In the vote... in the first round: of the 14 present 14 there were 'yes'; from the Federation and Republika Srpska they were all 'yes'. The conditions are met for the general and entity majority, and I find that the zakljuĉak has been adopted. Moving to the 12th agenda: Ad. 12. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2009, material number: 01,02-16-1-917/10, of 13. Seven. 2010 You have received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission has taken note of the 2009 report on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH, and is proposing to the House to take the report into account. The House of Representatives adopted a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and on BiH's 2009 international commitments at the 83rd session held. Nine. 2010 I'm giving the chairman of the Commission to Dr. O'Donnell, if that's what he wants. There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for re-up? There are no reports. Thank you. Now we're going to vote on the report. In the vote... on taièka 12 in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' there were 11,'remained' three delegates. There were seven delegates from the Federation, three delegates. There were four delegates from the RS. The conditions related to the general and entity majority have been met, and I find that Report 26 on the implementation of the BiH institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2009 has been adopted. Thank you. We move on to the 13th agenda: Ad. 13. The 2009 report on the revision of the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions, material number: 01.16-1-1123/10, of 8. Ten. 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u273	The President-in-Office, colleagues and colleagues and, of course, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I would like to comment under note 23, which is the Report of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, and under regular number 54. The Institute for Missing Persons of BiH, of course, does not ţeleći to enter into the financial form of the agencies listed, but I do need to inform and inform the College of the People's House of Commons about certain problems. Namely, the Office for Audit found in 2009 that there was a problem with the management of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, i.e. it is necessary to enter the selection of the Agency's leadership, given the fact that the Director had expired in 2007 and the Board of Regulatory Agency in 2009. We're in 2011 today and we have this problem. On the other hand, we will certainly be an actor of the debate on many issues when it comes to public service, public services, and we will again come to the plight of interpretation by making those who are formally proposed personal solutions in the system and in the service are not legitimate because their mandates expired in 2009 and we will spin round, playing table tennis, switching the ball when they are in charge. I believe that in this context, the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is competent to refer this issue to the Council of Ministers and that these issues are resolved in accordance with the procedures because, ultimately, the Director of the Communications Agency is appointed by the Council of Ministers, and the RAC Council is appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I think it would be quite unserious to bypass discussions on this issue, because the 2009 audit report found that there are problems in the management of this agency. And of course, a trend that will certainly come upon us after this break, which is the discussion of business systems services, of course, not naming some people in the management structure of systems and services, etc. And I think this is a real opportunity to remind ourselves that we are still in 2011 and that I think that this conclusion, Mr. Chairman, I am free to suggest to you – that we as the House of People suggest to the Council of Ministers that this issue should be resolved and that we go in that context to resolve it. And I want to comment on 54th, it's the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH. I would like to point out to you that in this institution which was created as a product of domestic and international attitudes, since the Council of Ministers is co-founded, as well as the International Commission for the Search for Missing – we have such formal problems. We have a Management Board in charge of implementing the Missing in BiH Act, which has expired for two-thirds of its mandate. We only have two legal members, i.e. a legitimate member of the Management Board, who are fully in the capacity of the mandate. Also, when it comes to the Supervisory Board, I must remind you that certain changes have occurred here, and that this body of the Missing Persons Institute is not in office because some of them have left and resigned. Please refer to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with a request to be implemented in accordance with the law of the procedure for the appointment of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of Directors, because this is so found in one part of this report in 2009 that there are certain problems, and tomorrow we will discuss for 2010 and we will be spinning around again. And of course, I also want to say that it is necessary when it comes to this institution, very important for all of us in BiH, that it has organs that are in full capacity, and unfortunately that is not the case now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u274	Thank you to your esteemed colleague, Košarac. Any other delegates? A colleague named Mehmed Bradarić. Before I give re-enactment to my colleague Bradarić, I'd like to ask my colleague, Košarac, to get these proposals in writing. I guess you'll have plenty of time to do that so we can announce them, and then access a statement about them. Thank you. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u275	.../microphone is not included/... since it is very old data, in 2009, it was long ago, and this data, or conclusions that are completely unusable. But to me it is simply this conclusion of the auditors, the auditors are responsible..., that is, they express their opinion on what the ministries, institutions, directorates have done etc. They all have their own internal controls and thus internal controls create these reports. And now you have a finding that says that financial reports are fair and true, and when you look at the structure of those costs, you really see a disaster situation there, a mess, one of which is unfair, in which several foreign affairs ministries, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and let the jujier get one, the minister, on that competent commission; so the auditors here have found that there is some progress, but some institutions don't really exist, it's unclear that people don't take it, and that's what the recommendation says, they don't take any measures to make this situation that doesn't go well. Well, maybe in that sense, since it's not worth a conclusion right now, but when we consider these reports for 2010, I'll be a little more specific, I'll say really where they are... enormous costs. So watch out, people have an overwork of the phone, i.e. it has an unlimited use of the phone, and again it overruns it indefinitely and looking for a 7000 marks above the exaggeration and gets no documentation, etc., or spends 60,000 marks for the purchase of gold for two years; I don't know who it gives it to, I mean, it's a disgrace, shame, etc., so that perhaps in that sense, when we consider these reports, and that we are thinking about noting the ministry that within the shortest time period, and I think that this was the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly, it was, to write down the rules of procedure... the spending of these budget funds on such a person and ultimately specify the material responsibility of those who do so. They can't do it anymore and they really have to answer it, or their own pocket needs to be taken away from them to cover these losses. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u276	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. A well-known colleague, Krstan Simić, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u277	Chairman, I would like to fully join the views of my previous colleague, with one note that I have a feeling, not only in this House but in the work of parliamentary assemblies and paraliaments and at entity levels, that it is very fast going over these reports. These reports are very important. They're important from the point of view, first of all, of how budgets are spent. But secondly, which may be even more important in some control, who are our bearers of certain functions, the powers, which are authorized to spend these funds on such things. And I think that both future and revision, no matter what we have insight into the work of the audit and their rules, should be more explicit. For example, these reports are typical, often give some dutiful reviews, but I think the time has come to open the question and those contents, i.e. the successes of the determined costs and in-houses, the current name of Vrankić suggests that it is the same name) and that it is time for the audit reports to go in depth to have opinions. 30 We are responsible here if we have such reports year by year, and we do not seek responsibility. Our conclusions should go to demand a change in those institutions where they appear, because each report contains suggestions on what must be removed. It is very easy to compile reports from 2009, 2010 which will be soon, 2011 will be our reports which we will have to particularly control because we have been working in function and simply to draw conclusions, and not accept, accept, do and go all the way the old. These are very important issues and it is my suggestion that they will be given full attention from this home, from the commissions dealing with these issues and from the audit that should try to give us as much data as possible. It's terrible when you get here, you get reports from the audit that you have an opinion. This is being questioned, it is not today the subject of this debate, it will be for 2010. So, one auditor says - I don't take even the review report, it's not exactly shown. Then a huge doubt is created as to what is happening and whether we can believe in future reports, past reports that have been delivered, if such problems arise. This revision must be resolved in its work, and we must indeed pay great attention to these issues when it comes to the work of public institutions and the spending of budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u278	Thank you, fellow Simić. A trusted colleague, Dragutin Rodić, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u279	Mr. Chairman, the adopted presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few words when it comes to these audit reports, and here I am more encouraged by my colleague Simić, who said that we do not need to go through these reports just by passing. What was fundamental to me in considering these reports is the time when we were considering them and therefore I did not consider it necessary to do more about it, but we should consider this report with two aspects. One aspect is the self-report that determines the state of affairs and gives a certain assessment of these institutions. And the second part of the report that is much more important to me is precisely those phenomena that are present in all these reports, especially when it comes to certain assessments of the very conduct of these institutions. The fact is that when we put into the context of the work of the main audit service from 2005 to 2009, it is clear that there has been a huge shift in all reports and in the business of these institutions. But what is worrying and what we need to look at in the context of the coming years when we are considering these reports that always repeats the same type of mistakes, and right there is the most frequent and consistent violation of the rules, and that is, above all, when it comes to planning, when it comes to internal controls and everything that laws require. For this reason, since it is about the Report that we received today at the House of Peoples which is comprehensive, and the Finance and Budget Commission is much more committed to this and I think that the Commission's report, which we have adopted, has touched all aspects of this problem, I think with all these recommendations and conclusions that we have made today, is acceptable and, of course, to be an approach in the next and future work, is different. 31 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u280	Thank you, fellow Rodić. A well-known colleague, Hasan Bećirović, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the approval of the chairman of the Commission for Budget and Finance, two colleagues said precisely on the trail of this report, the Commission for Budget and Finance just adopted a review plan for 2010 at its last session. And this plan is very comprehensive and all Commission members are in charge of talks with individual budget users. The result of these discussions and such a detailed analysis of these reports will be a report, I hope, available to this home, so that you, Mr Simić, are absolutely right and the reason why the Commission went through these 2009 reports is just their time. That's why we focused on 2010 very seriously. Each of these audit reports will be considered precisely on the Commission and the Commission will submit a very broad report to this House after these completed operations. I think... that this is an extremely important matter and you're absolutely right to go through this just like that, that there will probably be an initiative and about changing the law from the point of view of the increased responsibility for the use of public money, but also for the control of individuals, which is very important, which is very important, but not just for future users but, at least, I will insist, and public state corporations. This is very important, given that it has remained out of reach, at least so far, in the way it should have been, and we know how many in these areas are present in these collective phenomena. That's it, thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I took the right to inform myself that you wouldn't bother too much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u282	Since the chairman of our home Mr. Tadić is looking for a solution, I invite him to address...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with each of the discussions I've held here. And they represent a series of good wills to address recommendations and advices on a more positive environment and more responsible work of institutions in the financial sense of the authorities that are responsible to us, including public corporations, here we are. 32 But I cannot share with you a feeling because of a large part of the public, and I agree with that part of the public, he believes that these reports are a gunshot to the void. And I underline this, regardless of the systemativity that is done in their processing and analysis at any level, either commission or parliamentary, i.e. at home. I think the reason is because there is no political will in responsible political entities to sanction disorderly or unlawful behaviour for which responsible persons are established. Parliament is not a accounting institution and Parliament will certainly never, regardless of the expertise of its members, enter into particulars to the extent that these reports are contained in order to be equally devoted to each report and to give a relevant court on each report as it may have been given by a court, or some kind of authorised auditor. Parliament is here to say whether it wants to take political action, to call for the responsibility of those persons and those parts of the body that are assessed as messy, as illegal or irresponsible. And there's not a single law that can fix that. That's why there are laws already. I understand this issue of 2009, and I realize that we are also on the tail of certain events, but if we want to change something here, and I want to work on it, and I am convinced, and the faithful club of delegates of the Serbian people, then let's every time we see, every time we're resolved, there's an irregularity, that there's a responsibility to the end, that politician, whether she's professional, was a criminal, was guilty. Without it, it's all a blank shot. And without that, we can discuss these things as much as you want and we can agree and do not agree and we can and we can vote 'yes' and 'no', but we're essentially just finding a certain state after that there are no serious calls for responsibility. I'll tell you what, if someone doesn't feel like it. But that selective application of the law, according to the party, the national, the party-national line, or whatever you want, has led us to this in a debate that doesn't touch the essence, I'd say, goes through all of this. Good will was enough here, we're all witnesses, we've heard it a million times. If you want us to do something on that plan, then let's make this committee every time something like this tells us who's responsible and that this people's home starts the responsibility procedure when it's agreed that there really is a responsibility, and I'm sure there are more than a lot of examples of responsibility that should be investigated and implemented to the end. Thank you. A well-known colleague, Dragan ĉović, appears for the re-enactment. - Here you go, Mr. ĉoviću.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u284	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. Well, I thought we'd go a little bit faster, which is why I said... this kind of agenda where it's said about the Finance and Budget Committee... because we've really discussed the 2009 review report thoroughly, and here are two or three of the Committee's reports here for review, and we've presented very crediblely what we've talked about. But in order to avoid the possibility of discussing this for hours now, we have just concluded on the basis of these exhaustive discussions of ours that we accept the 2009 Audit Report. That is why I asked the chief auditor not to open the issue at all today, because very soon, and we have launched this already yesterday on our commission for the past year, to open up the final 33 joint discussions: agreeing on a methodology, adopt some five conclusions, which will be done by those coordinators who need to take care of us, which will help us in our own audit office, how we will be among ourselves, but we have agreed on a tour of certain institutions in order to do all this which we are now slightly opening up. On this side of the application is, first of all, if nothing else, because these reports stand in this house for more than a year, to end this phase, because we are now not discussing the content, because now that a representative of the Office of Audit goes out here and opens each of these 62 reports, that substance of the problem that lies in an institution that has passed the review phase, I'm afraid it would take a lot of time. This is why the proposal is in the Report, and I will repeat it once more... – here is my simple agreement with the discussions that were before me, so also with the conclusions proposed by individual colleagues – that we adopt the report on the revision of 62 institutions, with that conclusion: that everything that we will do as a commission for 2010, all the data from 2009 will be so much the subject of our work as part of the continuity of the institution will be dealt with for the next few months. So here's a request not to go further into the debate about this, because this can take a very long time and to support the Financial and Budget Committee's report... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u285	I would like to thank my ĉoviću. Are there any more people reported for discussion? There isn't. Before I conclude the discussion, I will consider the proposal of two conclusions that have been delivered by an esteemed colleague Staša Košarac. First conclusion: "The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to initiate the procedure for the selection of the body of the BiH Institute for Missing Persons so that the Management and Supervisory Committee of the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH is in full capacity, provided for by law." Second conclusion: 'The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to implement the selection procedure of the Director of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, as well as the law-defined procedure for selecting the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, which expired the mandate so as not to question legality in the work and application of the law of the Regulatory Agency for Communications. Thank you.' Have there been any reports of discussion? There are no applications for discussion. Thank you. Now we will first declare the reports from 1 to 62 that are the subject of this period of the agenda. 34 I find that in the vote... on takkko 14. in the first round: of the 13 present delegates 'for' was 13; from the Federation nine, and from the RS four, the names were satisfied both by the general and entity majority, and so we adopted the 2009 Audit report for 62 institutions. We are now voting on the komisija's zakljuĉku. Please launch an ad hoc vote. I find that in the vote... in the first round: of the 13 present 'for' there were 12 delegates,'remained' one; by ĉega Federation eight votes 'for','restricted' one, from the RS' four votes 'yes',ĉimesatisfying both the general and entity majority and I conclude that the proposed conclusion of the Commission was adopted. We are now moving on to a statement on the first conclusion, the proposal of the delegate Staša Košarac. Run an ad hoc vote. In the... vote... on the first proposal to conclude colleagues of Staša Košarac in the first round: of the 13 'for's present voted seven, and 'abstained' were six. From the Federation, three delegates were "yes," six were "remained." There were four delegates from the RS. The general majority is satisfied, the entity majority is not satisfied. We now have a duty to consult. I would like to inform you that the College has not agreed on this issue, so we will move to the second round of voting on the first proposed conclusion. Please initiate the second round of voting. In the vote... of the 14 delegates present: 'yes' voted eight,'remained' six delegates. From the Federation, four delegates were "yes", six were "sustained." From the RS, four delegates were 'yes', no 'against' and 'abstained' votes. I find, so it seems to me, that the conditions of the general and entity majority have been met, and this conclusion has been adopted. We move to a statement on the second conclusion, the proposal of colleague Staša Košarac. Please initiate the vote, knowing in the first round again. In the vote... in the first round: of the 14 delegates present, seven is 'for', 'against' one, six'remained'. From the Federation of BiH, three delegates are "for", one "against", six "sustained". From RS, four delegates are "yes". We have a general majority, but we don't have an entity majority. So, we're moving on to the alignment. You've seen the alignment. You'll get the nickname Mister no, good. I find there's no contaminants within the College. And we are launching the second round of voting on the proposal to conclude colleagues of Staša Košarac. Please initiate the vote. I find that in the... vote in the second round: out of the 14 delegates present, there were eight delegates, two delegates opposed,'remained' were four delegates. From the Federation, four delegates were "for", two "against", ĉetiri "remained". There were four delegates from the RS. I find that with the existence of the general and entity majority adopted and the second conclusion of my colleague Staša Košarac, we have exhausted this so-called agenda. 35 Moving to Table 15. Ad. 15. Report by the Central Election Commission of BiH on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's 2010 legislation, material number: 01-02-07-297-11, of 12. 4. 2011 You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission took note of the Report and proposed to the House of Peoples to support the recommendations set out in the Report. The Commission proposes to the House of People to form an interresor working group for the implementation of the CEC report on the implementation of the law in the responsibilities of the Central Election Commission for 2010. The House of Representatives adopted the Opinion Report and the recommendations of the Constitutional Legal Commission. I give the chairman of the Commission, my colleague Simić, if he wishes. No, thank you. I give the Central Election Commission representative of BiH if it is present and if it wants to. Lady Irena hadţiabdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u287	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished delegates, the report is in front of you, and I have no intention of explaining it in detail. I believe that the legal and proper work of the Central Election Commission is sufficiently addressed by the number of confirmed decisions by the BiH Court of Appeal, which is when it comes to the election process 97%, when it comes to the conflict of interest law 95%, and when it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties – all of our decisions from last year are confirmed. You know that we had elections and the assessment of the international community is that the elections were mostly made in accordance with my international standards. However, there are areas that we must improve and therefore need to be perfected. Therefore, on page 184, we have made recommendations in the synthesis of the conclusions of the discussions, and we find it very important that this private home adopts them today. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u288	Thank you, Mrs. hadţiabdić. I'm opening a debate on the report delivered. Do any of the delegates report for re-up? Niko of the delegates answered. Excuse me, Mrs. Krišto? I don't really have it here. She's an esteemed colleague of Borjana Krišto. Here you go, Lady Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u289	Thank you very much. 36 Here, I'll really do it very briefly. I have read the report, of course, we have considered it on both the Constitutional Legal Commission and indeed on some to praise this institution that is too much, of course, not only for this home but also for all the peoples and citizens who live in the BiH area, in fact for the entire democratic system. The BiH Election Law, which is in charge of the Central Election Commission, gives rise to the democratic system of BiH. Indeed, what the chairman of the Central Election Commission has said that their work, their legality, is best confirmed through their decisions, which are confirmed by the Court of Justice through complaints and complaints, is best reflected in how many institutions are responsible, legally, transparently, within their powers, and that is indeed for every praise. Of course there's politicizing and some other stuff. It clearly says so, and we know what decisions are made at sessions, but of course we won't be dealing with it. What I want to say here is really worth mentioning that he personally told me that the Central Election Commission is an institution in which the high representative questioned his decisions and put the whole election process in question, to say, in BiH. I think that this home, as well as the other home, to which the Central Election Commission is submitting this report, must be consulted about such matters, because it is not only the Central Election Commission's institution that is at stake, but also the Court of BiH as an independent judicial institution that discusses and decides on the request of this one body. On a special note, here as a woman, I would like to commend the work of the president as a woman who, indeed, in these circumstances and in these relations and opportunities in BiH, was not easy to work on the purpose of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u290	I thank my colleague Krišto. A trusted colleague, Halid Genjac, called. Here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u291	... As usual, the Central Election Commission has held a report that is rich in a number of very high-quality and useful data for some future times, but also a report that contains observations that really burden our electoral process. Problems with the Law on the financing of political parties, problems with the financing of political parties, problems with conflicts of interest and, in particular, what has greatly compromised the integrity of the electoral process this year – the establishment of authorities. So, we have deadlines declared in certain acts, we have a fact in the constitutions and entities, etc., but sanctions do not exist and there are no mechanisms that would put things into order after the elections, so that both direct and indirect elections are held in one integrity, in one time which will represent the real integrity of the electoral process. This year it was seriously questioned that the indirect elections..../outline microphone/.... And there is really a possibility that one or two parties or three parties in one or two cantons for these and for those reasons, justified and unwarranted, with such legislation will end the electoral process and simply, after a lot of money, a lot of energy – that the election process will not be completed. 37 Of course, it binds one another, from the cantonal congregations of the House of the Peoples of the Federation and the House of the Peoples of BiH, and related to it, therefore, that we do not have a system of executive and legislative authority, for these or those reasons which can motivate one party. I think that these recommendations made by the Central Election Commission at the end, on page 184 are very clear, very concrete, to locate priority problems indeed and I think both the House of People and the House of Representatives in their work should put the appointment of working groups on the agenda as soon as possible to resolve these issues. So, despite these issues listed, I welcome, therefore, that the Central Election Commission has put in place and that a number of persons who have the status of refugees and displaced persons are determined to have this voting process taken place in full agreement with the law. So, I welcome these recommendations and I think they should be followed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u292	Thanks, Genjac buddy. This will be the last one that will be helped by the list law. Nothing, I just said that the last thing that's gonna help is the list law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u293	Yeah, part of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u294	Thank you. Are there any more reported for discussion? This is me in the name of the College, since we've reached an agreement. Have there been any further reports of discussion? There isn't. Thank you. Now we're moving on to a plea. We vote on the CEC report, together with recommendations from the Central Election Commission and a proposal to form an Interresor Working Group for Implementation, as it was called in this proposal. I'm starting the vote. Thank you. In the vote... taddock 15 in the first round: of the 13 present 'for' voted 12 delegates,'remained' was one delegate. From the Federation of BiH, eight delegates were 'yes' and'maintained' was one delegate. From the RS, four present delegates were "for". Given that there is a general and entity majority, I find that the Central Election Commission Report of BiH on the implementation of the law in the responsibilities of the Central Election Commission for 2010 has been adopted. We move on to the 16th agenda: Ad. 16. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2010, material number: 01-50-19-334/11, of 26. 4. 2011 38 You have received the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. The Commission accepted the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give it to the chairman of the Commission, Dr. ĉoviću, if he wishes. There's no need. Thank you. I give the representative of the Central Bank of BiH, if he is present and wants a solution. There's no need. Thank you. We vote, oh, I'm sorry. I'm opening a debate on the annual report delivered. I'd like to invite you to sign in, if you'd like to join us in the debate. There are no reports. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement on the report. Voting... tadjka 16. in the first round: Of the 13 present 'for' was 13; from Federation nine, from RS `four. There is a general and entity majority and I find that the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2010 was adopted. We're going to the 17th Tad. 17. Financial Report from the Central Bank of BiH for 2010, material number: 01-50-19-335/11, of 26. 4. 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u298	I'll do it very briefly. I would like to thank the authors of the Report on Quality Report, which not only gives the data but is also educational. So that's one area we're meeting. The Agency has just been established, but what is written in the Report, I think it is useful for all of us, with one suggestion that the authors of the report, or the Agency, in the next report, ultimately make a little more concrete observations and more concrete recommendations on what should be done in this area, not only a description of the situation but also more concrete measures that seem to need to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u299	Thanks, Genjac buddy. A trusted colleague, Dragutin Rodić, called. Here you go, colleague Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u300	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say just a few solutions, because I think that in the time in which we live this topic is very important, and given that we are in public business, I think we should pay attention to this report as well. What I'm saying is, when I ĉitao orveo's 84 years ago, I wasn't even aware that I was going to live in the time when all this was happening to us. For this reason, I think that this information that we have in front of us today is very comprehensive, present and educational. I think that, as delegates, we should give maximum support to this report today, with a recommendation that the Agency further points to everything that is important for this area, to help us through various sectors, because there is not one activity in this Parliamentary Assembly that is not touched by these 40 problems, and that everything is within the framework of law and legality, it is very important that, after these analyses, this House is also supported by the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u301	Thank you, colleague Rodić. I don't have any more admissions to the discussion. We moţemo move on to a plea, thank you. In the vote... on taddock 18 in the first round: of the 13 present 12 is 'for', one'remained'. The Federation of 10 delegates voted yes, no one 'against', no one 'abstained'. Two delegates from the RS are "yes", no one "no" or "no" one. The conditions related to the general and entity majority have been met. And I understand that the 2010 report on the protection of data in BiH has been adopted. Wasn't that your intention fellow...? - What's your emergency? You want to do it again? ... May I? Here, at the request of fellow Simić, we will repeat the vote. I'd like an expert service to help us with that. Here you go. Thank you. The vote... on taièka 18, therefore repeated in the first round: of the 13 present 'for' were 13 delegates. From Federation 10 is for, from RS three. The conditions related to the general and entity majority have been met, so I find that the 2010 report on the protection of data in BiH has been adopted. We move on to the 19th agenda: Ad. 19. Information on the state of public debt of BiH on 31 March 12. In 2009, material number: 01,02-16-1-742/10, of 4. Six. 2010 You have received the opinion of the committee responsible, who has accepted the information and proposed its adoption. A colleague? He doesn't want to. Thank you. Does a representative suggest a solution? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Do any of the delegates report for entry in the discussion? There are no reports. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement of information. In the vote... the 19th round: of the 13 present 12 delegates there was 'for', one'remained'. From Federation 10, there was no one "for" or "against" or "abstained". The RS two were "for", one 41 "abstained". The conditions for the general and entity majority have been met, and I find that the information on the state of public debt of BiH is 31. 12. 2009 admitted to knowledge. We're moving on to Table 20. Ad. 20. Report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Citizens' Committee for 2010 of 16. 3. 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u304	Thank you very much, but you've already said that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u305	I'd like to ask you, Lady Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u306	Here's because you've already had one part of your opinion, or you've read the conclusions, I'll just say here, and the introduction will refer to the next two notes, and that's based on the 27th and 54th. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives: The Joint Defence and Security Commission is at its 3rd session of 20. Seven. 2011 discussed the report on the work of the Grains Committee and submitted the Work Report to this House in the form of opinions. The Joint Defence and Security Committee was in the capacity of the competent committee, considering the Report, held a debate on the Report and after the debate, under: 42 a) with eight votes 'for', no votes 'against' and with two votes 'abstained', accepted the report on the work of the Committee on Salaries for 2010 and forwarded it to homes in further procedure and under b) unanimously, with 10 votes 'yes', accepted and proposed to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly the adoption of the conclusions that you had just read and the integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u307	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Krišto. I am now giving the representative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Committee if he wishes. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate and I'm calling on delegates to get involved in the discussion if they want to. I don't have a record of a registered person. Thank you. I'm locking up the discussion. So, we're moving on to a statement on the report. In the vote... on the 20th period in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' there were 14 delegates; from Federation 10, from the RS - four. Satisfied principles of the general and entity majority, and I find that the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Citizens' Committee for 2010 was adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the Commission's conclusions. I suggest we declare ourselves uniquely about both conclusions because they are from the same act. I'd like an expert service to allow us an ad hoc vote. Thank you. In the vote... in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' there were 14 delegates; from Federation 10, from RS `Ethieri. Satisfied both the general and the entity majority and I find that the proposed conclusions have been adopted. Moving to the 21st agenda: Ad. 21. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2010 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2011, material number: 06/2-50-1-51-12/11, of 28. 1. 2011 You have been given the Joint Commission's opinion on BiH's defence and security. The Commission adopted the Work and Work Plan Report and proposed their adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the report and the Work Plan. If Lady Krišto ţeli a solution, as a reporter? Dear colleague Krišto, come in. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u309	Thank you very much. Here, also on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the Joint Defence and Security Commission discussed the report and the Work Plan, discussed these acts and held at the 3rd session of 20. Seven. 2011 With eight votes 'yes', two votes 'abstained' and no votes 'against' accepted the report on the work of the Independent Committee for 2010 and forwarded it to the homes of the further parliamentary procedure. And b): With eight votes 'yes', two votes 'abstained' and no votes 'against' accepted the Working Plan of the Independent Committee for 2011 and forwarded it to homes for further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. rijeĉ give a representative of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure, if he wants to join? No, thank you. I'm having a debate about this little agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And we're moving on to a plea. In the vote... on tai·ka 21. ... on the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2010 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2011 in the first round: of 14 present delegates 14 there were 'for', of which from Federation 10, from RS `four. The conditions for the general and entity majority were met, and I find that the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2010 as well as the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2011 – were adopted. We're moving on to Table 22. Ad. 22. Report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2010, material number: 01,02-50-19-313/11, dated 18. 4. 2011 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission adopted the Labour Report and proposed its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the report. 44 gospoċo Krišto, do you want a solution? Dear colleague Borjana Krišto, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u312	The BiH Defence and Security Committee, in the capacity of the competent commission to discuss the 2010 report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner, delivered the opinion to this house after the debate was held that it had concluded with seven votes 'yes' and one 'no' vote and two 'abstained' votes, i.e. accepted the 2010 Parliamentary Military Commissioner's report and forwarded it to this home for further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u313	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I am giving it to the BiH parliamentary military commissioner. Here you go, colleague of Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly a few details that are not contained in this report. I would ţelim to clarify that this report is not an evaluation of Boško Šiljegović but rather a project of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the formerly calling for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens in uniform, or professional military persons. This is at the same time an evaluation of the work of a large number of other institutions or parts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly institutions that gave legal support to the work of the parliamentary military commissioner, the evaluation of a number of international organisations that promoted and promoted this project, the evaluation of a large number of individuals and individuals in this project, in the end, regardless of how it is assessed, this report is lastly called by the Joint Defence and Security Commission, chaired by Mr Zrna, because I submitted to that commission an operational plan and submitted three months of information. This is a report and services of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that were legally supportive. This is an assessment of part of the work and of the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff and the summation of these assessments is about summed up in this report. What is not in the Report: we received strong support and all the time from the OSCE mission to BiH, from the Government of Switzerland, his military commissioner and his military commissioner, the UNDP and the DIKAF. You saw through one bulletin that I delivered to all clubs and political parties that we also received regional support and that we had a very strong regional conference in this direction. The institution and representatives of parliament's military commissioner have been working on three international conferences of military ombudsmen so far. The first one was Mr. Zno in Berlin. We were in Vienna together and I was in Belgrade for the third time, so the International Conference of Military Ombudsmans. 45 Achieving trust with members of the Armed Forces? You saw that we used one method of coming and entering the barracks. We were in 27 barracks, and we had 40 visits in those barracks. So that stay through the night, etc., that trust we acquired with the members of the Armed Forces produced that currently up to 1. The 6th has over 180 complaints in the Office of the Parliamentary Military Commissioner. There are problems and difficulties. The worrying fact is that we have an emergency event at the Ministry of Defense, for the first six months of 60, and in a settlement with the first six months of 2010 where they were 35, therefore, concerned with this number of complaints. But it worries if a legal solution consumes two-thirds of a population, and one-third of that same legal solution does not consume. There is not much philosophy: either those two thirds do not have the right to this legal solution, or that one-third is denied that right. But here I am. We are building optimism on the following: that all the recommendations made by the parliamentary military commissioner to the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff are respected and implemented. Everyone thanked for the observed violation of human rights and removed those anomalies. We are also building optimism to get tasks from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This is a project which, in modern countries and democratic countries, is well affirmed and I with the tasks that I will get from this isolated home and from one and the other – I am sure that the function that people in the previous meeting have imagined will be fulfilled. Thank you for your attention, and here I am... trying to take as little time as possible from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u315	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u316	I urge the chairman of this distinguished home, Mr. Tadić, to take the reins.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u317	I thank you, Mr. ĉoviću. The intention of my report on this agenda is not to repeat what I already said as the Joint Defence and Security Commission's calendar or what one of the other members of the Commission said. The attitude is clear and, ultimately, Ms. Krišto gave it very correctly on behalf of this commission, with an assessment and information and how we pleaded. I wouldn't have even reported on this agenda if it hadn't been for an introduction that was cited by the esteemed Mr. Šiljegović, an otherwise my colleague and by the profession. It would be difficult for me to leave this building today without reacting to an argument that something is given to an argument which gives a higher degree of competence, so to speak and sovereignty, rather than this home. I welcome the fact that the commission has had good relations with both some of the authorities of this country and some of the military structures, including parts of the so-called. the international community. But the argument for us MPs isn't. We decide here according to the will of the people. And we're not evaluating the project. We're evaluating the work on this project. As the project has been assessed, the existence of a law is due to which there is a Commissioner. But projectwork is something else. I would not further enter into the debate on this so-called agenda, but I would ask all future proposals and rapporteurs to understand that the argument here is 46 is the only will of the people, not NATO, not the OSCE, not the OHR, not this organization, not that community, not this general, not that general, not this or that minister. If we're not able to accept it, then the wrong people are in the right place, because we represent the will of the people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u319	I thank you, Mr. ĉoviću. The discussion was attended by an esteemed colleague, Staša Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u320	I'm probably the one who got a little hot. I expect other colleagues to discuss it. And if there are no more reports, I'm asking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u321	You're looking for a five-minute break. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u322	... firstthe discussions, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u323	No one else signed up for the discussion. I don't have any reports. Did someone press the key without me having it on the record? Niko. At the request of the head of the Serbian People's Club, I am giving a five-minute break. A break in the O.R., huh? Thank you. [[PAUZA]] I suggest we continue our work on this agenda. I can't see on the monitor that there's been a report for discussion, but I'm asking an experienced colleague, Staš Košarac, president of the Serbian People's Club, does he need to comment on anything about a break? There isn't. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement on the report. In the vote... on taddock 22. A report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2010, in the first round of voting: out of 14 present 11 there were "for", "against" no one, "sustained" three delegates. 47 From the Federation there were 10 delegates 'for', from RS one 'for', three'remained'. We have a general majority, but we don't have an entity. We're moving on to a match on the spot, without repeating the vote. We haven't reached an agreement on this vote. Please initiate the second round of voting. In the second round of voting... of the 22nd out of 14 delegates present there were 'yes', 'no' no one,'remained' by the four delegates. From Federation 10, the delegates were "yes", from the RS no one "for", "no one" but "restrained" four delegates. With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that a report on the work of a paramentary BiH military commissioner for 2010 has been adopted. Thank you. We're moving on to pad 23. Ad. 23. Annual report on the results of the 2010 Ombudsman's 2010 Human Rights Institution, material number: 01-12-341/11, of 28. 4. 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u327	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, as a person who has been dealing with the issue of persons with disabilities in BiH for many years, to wish to congratulate the representatives of the Ombudsman Institution on the creation of a very core, correct, true report in which they give the delegates, i.e. delegates and MPs a complete but very concise picture and a summary of the condition of persons with disabilities in BiH. Leading to the fact that BiH has ratified international conventions and standards that are part of the BiH Constitution, it has therefore assumed the obligation to bring its laws into line with the conventions it is party to. There are 49 facts and objective conditions... that persons with disabilities in BiH live in very difficult conditions, that ţive on the edge of existence and that there is one legal discrepancies between RS, the Federation and the Bręko entities and that, perhaps, and quite certain question of persons with disabilities should be resolved on a unique basis in BiH. The intensity around the world is the equalisation of the right of disabled persons based on one-of-a-kind disability, which is not the case in BiH, and thus harshly violates their human rights. A person who has a 100% disability regardless of its origin is equal in his needs, and we do not respect those needs. The amendments to the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection, the protection of civil lives of war and families with children have, I must say, been done by one great injustice against the entire large and vast population of persons with 90% disability and below, and by persons with a 100% disability of another category, who have been compensated for this great and huge population of persons who actually have a gro, based on these incomes, because there are greater benefits for that care and assistance than for the disability itself that a person owns, which is one nonsens, one illogicality. And at this point, I, therefore, react as a doctor and as an MP. I don't think that's right, and I think that primarily the Federation government, I speak primarily of it since they've made such an oversight, and zastupniĉki House of Representatives voted in such a way, would have to join the re-lease in the parliamentary procedure of a special law, which is called 'The Law on the Special Rights of Persons with Disabilities', which was in parliamentary procedure in the previous session of the House of Representatives. This law would especially correct the harsh injustice that has been done to people with mental retardation, children with mental retardation most represented in this law. And I think it would end the long-term suffering of both them and their families, given that their parents are not in a position to go to work because they have children with disabilities. I would then like to say that the big problem in BiH is the fact that the rights of people with disabilities are not respected. No labour protection law has been passed in the Federation of BiH. The ombudsmen's recommendations are that this law must be passed. I think that the ĉinjenica that most employers do not give the employee the opportunity to requalify or qualify or give the opportunity to work at another workplace and fire persons who have suffered a work injury, most employers do so, without consulting the Council of Employees who, by virtue of the existing, true, poor Labour Act, are destined to consult the Council of Employees before firing. I think that the human rights of a person with disabilities are being severely violated, which is what the Ombudsman's institution actually pointed out, but I think that in this Parliamentary Assembly there should be a loud talk about it. We need to lead those who live with us and who are in a position to help them. In the House of Representatives of the Federation Parliament, a Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Training of Persons with Disabilities and Conclusions was adopted. But according to the information we have, this law is not working at all and it is very questionable whether this fund works, whether people with disabilities are given their basic human right, which is the right to work. I think that, according to the Federation government, it would be very instructive for this House to issue an act, the Human Rights Commission will certainly do so, with a question of what is going on with the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund of Persons with Disabilities. 50 I would point out in my discussion only to two more problems. The fact that there are no specialised institutions of a closed type for the accommodation of persons with severe mental incapacitation, and the ones we have, I don't think they can give adequate accommodation to persons. I will only list the "Drin" institution in which absolutely there are no capacitatively met conditions for the accommodation of a very large number of people with mental disability living below every human dignity. And it would be very good for one of the officials and I think even the members of the Human Rights Commission to come and see the conditions of a person with mental disability, including a large number of small children. The next problem is forensics. We know that persons who have committed serious crimes, and... have been declared a state of neuro-loathing, i.e. having severe mental illness, do not exactly have adequate accommodation in institutions of a closed type. We know that in the Zenica Penitentiary, at any moment, one of those persons can be accepted but, truth be told, and that person that was inside that office I appreciate... necessary to create special institutions that will accommodate the prisoners, so with mental incapacitation. And what's still very important, it would be good for each of us to look around and look at every day how many people with paraplegia and inability to move with the extremes of that person. A very large number of these people have come out of the past war as well as there are persons who are disabled by their birth. They have a huge problem in meeting the barriers they meet every day, architectural barriers that are especially expressed in road traffic. The Law on the Internal Road Traffic of the Federation of BiH has been amended and... a conclusion has been made which has become an integral part of the text – that all transport vehicles, so trolleybuses, trams and vans with a lift ramp must operate in each city, so in which they exist as such means of transport. No such example in BiH has yet to exist, especially in the Federation of BiH. So I ask the question from this place: Why does it not apply, and ultimately, it does not work as a van with a lift ramp that would allow people with disabilities to transport and transport from place to place in cities, in larger or smaller cities? This, of course, does not apply to rural areas, but I think that this is again fulfilling their, one of their basic rights, because we need to lead the action plan of the Council of Europe, which promotes the full participation of persons with disabilities in society and their normal functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u328	Thank you, classmate. I don't have a record of anyone else registered for entry in the debate, I do. She's an esteemed colleague of Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u329	Thank you very much. I will briefly welcome this report and the recommendations made by the Ombudsman institution regarding the protection of these categories. But I'm only going to say this very briefly and welcome everything that my colleague Kapetanović. Kapitanovic said. 51 In their recommendations they wrote under number '1. To establish the obligation of strict compliance with the provisions of the law that protects the rights of persons with disabilities in BiH'. I don't think that would be good, we're still a legislative body, we're passing laws, and those laws are being passed to apply. Therefore, here she would recommend to the institution leading the discussion on the application of these laws that indeed these forward-numbered institutions of government from the level of the local community to the level of the state that they are obliged to implement the laws and to adopt those laws that are necessary for this population. Known, respected, not recommended, because what kind of a home or some other... no legislative bodies could make, I don't know, a provision, a decision, a conclusion, etc. to make a commitment, and already existing laws we have are truly not respected, from the local community to the Spanish/Cantonal levels, so to state, in terms of their rights relating both to the right to work and to the right and to help of another person and so on. Here is my recommendation that this should not stand in the recommendations of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, but rather the obligation to respect existing legal solutions and to adopt those legal solutions that regulate the rights of persons with disabilities in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u330	I don't have a record of any further reports in the debate, thank you. Now we're going to move on to a statement on the Special Report. Excuse me, now, excuse me, do I have to repeat? It's not. Okay. Thank you. I find that in the vote... on taièka 24 in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' voted 12 delegates, 'against' no one, 'abstained' two delegates. From the Federation of BiH, nine delegates were 'yes', one 'abstained'. From the RS, three delegates were "yes", one "maintained". The conditions related to the general and entity majority have been met, and I find that the Special Report on Persons' Rights with Disabilities, the material of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution - has been adopted. Dear ladies and gentlemen of our colleagues, we have had consultations within the College on a possible break and a continuation of the session, so perhaps we should extend that consultation to the heads of the delegates' clubs. Do you ţelite to take a break now so we can continue within the appropriate time limit or move on? Let's move on, okay. Thank you. Then we move on to the 25th. Ad. 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (proposed by the Joint College of both homes) 52 The zajedniĉki Kolegijum of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes held at the first session, held in 7.7.2011, discussed a letter from the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance and the requests of the Council of Ministers for the opening of a public competition for the selection of three members of the Agency, a pardon which is asked the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to sign a public competition and implement the procedure for the selection of three members of the Agency's Management Board for a term of office of three years. Since the members of the Joint College of both the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH set out a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for selecting the three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, which has been provided to you. The House of Representatives adopted the conclusion and named both homes in the Interim Joint Commission: boţu Ljubić, Petar Kunić and Nermin Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović. I call on the people's chairmanship to propose delegates, propose candidates from the order of delegates to the temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to conduct procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. Here's maybe the other way around. A fellow Košarac player, here you go. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u333	No problem...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u334	Dear colleague Borjana Krišto, now you're sitting... won't be hard for you, you're young. _________(?) /not including microphone/ 53
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u335	In the Joint Commission for the Prosecution of Election Procedures, three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance in front of the Croatian People's Club, proposed Mr. Josip merdţu.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u336	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u337	...Mr. Mehmed Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u338	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague, Staša Košarac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u339	... Chairman, we are proposing to Mr. Krstan Simić for the temporary joint commissions for the implementation of procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u340	Thank you, Košarac. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. There are no reports. We move to a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. The vote... on tadduka 25 in the first round: of 14 present 14 'for'; from Federation 10, from Republika Srpska, there is a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the zakljuĉak on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of the procedures for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance and appointed to this commission in front of the House of Peoples: Josip merdţu, Mehmed Bradarić and his colleague, Krstan Simić. Thank you. We're moving on to Table 26. 54 Ad. 26. The appointment of the Director and two Deputy Directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (Commission's proposal for a Commission candidate to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency), material number: 01,02-50-1-910-5/10, of 11. 1. 2011 In accordance with the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption and the Provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Work of the Anti-Corruption Agency has established a proposal for a ranking of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, which it has provided to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for further proceedings. Following the procedure, the Commission established the following candidate rankings: Ramiz Huremagić, Damir Vejo, Sead Lisak, Milan Krulj, Blanka Benković, Dragan Slipac, Vukašin Crnjak, Ismail Sarić, Radoje Badnjar, Izet Nizam, Nermin Mrkaljević, Zoran Đerić, Milanko Renovica, jasmin Jaganjac, Sreto Pekić. The House of Representatives adopted the conclusion that the vote in the package for the Director of the Agency and for the two deputies and after the declaration was carried out was appointed by Sead Lisak as the Director of the Agency, and for his deputies, first Deputy Dragan Slipac, and second Deputy Sret Pekić. I'm opening a debate, please. A well-known colleague, Stjepan Krešić, called.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u342	Dear Mr. President, your fellow Members and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have personal reasons to comment on the proposed candidates, or one of the candidates for the listed Agency, so I'm going to try it briefly and try without emotion, to hide my emotions when I comment on this. Mr. Lisak, Mr. Slipac and Mr. Pekić were proposed for this agency. I will personally vote against because of Mr. Srete Pekić's proposal, for the reason that he was my knowledge of being a police commander in Sarajevo at the time of the war when the evildoer Batko, who is now being tried, committed crimes in the coat of arms and surrounding settlements, settled in Sarajevo, where among other things he committed misdemeanors against the Krešić family, Miljenko Krešić, my beloved uncle. I'm burdening this gentleman that he was a police commander at the time, because, in my opinion, he should have taken action against such villains as Batko and his likes. For this reason, I will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u343	Thank you, Mr. Krešić. Anyone else want to sign up for the discussion? I'm taking a five-minute break because of the difficulty of this discussion. Break. [[PAUZA]] Okay. Thank you for your patience with this break. A colleague of Staš Košarac's on behalf of the Serbian People's Delegates Club. Here you go, classmate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u345	Before I say anything about these solutions and this presentation that we have previously presented and these proposals for a solution, I would ask you, in the chair, that we do not affirm some cheerleading group in the BiH Parliament's hall. We all have a lot of need to affirm some of our differences, but not on one, I would say, primitively and not something in line with the Rules of Procedure. Here we have found a certain dose of applause for those people who are not BiH parliamentarians. We are deeply aware of one fact that whenever we talk about war, whenever we talk about sacrifices in BiH, we can't be so much, I would say, in cold blood, we cause, of course, internal emotions, there are different views, and I think it's a painful issue for all of us. There is no ĉovjeka in BiH who has not lost anyone in the war in BiH. There is no man in BiH whose war in BiH has brought something good. I would really intimately like a young ĉovjek living in BiH who has different kinds of sympathy in BiH, I would like it never to happen to anyone else in BiH. I also want to try through the nature of the work I do and through the political engagement to try to have universal access to BiH victims. I honestly think so, and I think it would be extremely amoral and perfidious if either of us tried to share the victims in BiH, or to measure the amount of evil on this or on that basis. The evil is evil. And the BiH institutions should – unfortunately, we have such a divergence about it in BiH – that the BiH institutions should affirm such an approach that anyone who has committed war crimes responds, regardless of the name, last name, where it comes from, etc. We are obviously not in BiH so capable of articulating this on the best way for all people in BiH, and then very often this issue becomes a political issue, not a humanitarian issue, and we have a permanent thing on one table where the already contaminated relationship in BiH is further contaminated. Mr Krešić presented his personal problem, and we simply want to do so because we believe that it is not humane that such things happen in BiH. And of course all RS institutions, all RS representatives condemn every evil in BiH. They condemn every single person who's committed war crimes, but based on judgments, not on emotion, because we're all full of emotion. I'm trying, since I have very good communication with Mr. Krešić, I don't want to offend him or anyone here in the O.R. because I know everyone's had a certain loss in BiH. I don't want to amnest any. But I don't even have the right to blame him until the final decision is made. We have on these issues which are painful issues in BiH – we can push it under the carpet – different views and opinions, we have different information that may be 56 well-intentioned and malicious. It's a lot more alarming here that they're positioning, one of the predecessors in the previous agendas discussing that unskilled people are positioning themselves from some of the bottom-levels in positions. And it's a bigger problem in BiH. I made it clear to you that we have no such knowledge. We have information and information on many who today are performing positions in BiH institutions, entities, the Federation of BiH, cantons, etc. And for which there is some tendency that they were amongst possibly some war criminal, but we have no judgment. At least for certain political reasons, I have the need to defend someone here, and absolutely neither do I have the need nor will I ever defend them if they determine the true facts, the unsatisfactory actions of a very painful period for BiH. You know, never. So, I mean, here we are, because we have information about certain people on this list that should be named, but we don't have a court ruling. We have information that the people on the list were operatives, or operatives and SIPAs, but we don't have an epilogue. I once again wish to address Mr. Krešić, I do not wish to reduce his pain at any cost, which is evident, but here I simply had the need to try to present this universal approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u346	Thanks, Košarac. A well-known colleague, Krstan Simić, called. But we don't have that right now. I'm sorry. Comrade Simić, you will have to press the key you are applying for the discussion again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This takka has raised a few questions. The first question is: Indeed, I understand Mr Krešić, and in this situation he should not hide his emotions. Emotions are part of every human’s personality and should be shown and sent to other persons about these emotions. The second question that was raised here is key to me. It is that we are constantly working on the principle of party agreements on the selection of various candidates, and these arrangements, these deals, to call them so, to bring them up to us, to speak universally, to persons who do not have a quality of electricity, to have no morals, and we are simply in a position to identify ourselves with those persons for whom the next position of the party from which we are voting for them; perhaps we identify ourselves with the principle of incompetence, irresponsibility and other shortcomings that have been set aside by the faces of the non-satisfactory for the functions we choose. BiH was in a Russian war. In a war where everyone was killed on one or the other, and there is no dilemma that one Veselin Vlahović, as it is called, Batko, is the evil of the human race according to media inscriptions. It is to be expected that the court will give its final position. I don't ţelim 57 of you to think I'm going to stop to defend Veselin Vlahović Batko. I'm glad he's not a BiH citizen. Let me just say, well, at least they're not ours from here. takoċe, I must point out that exactly what Mr. Košarac said that we used and used and methods that were not fair; in various discriminations, people who were in the system of government of this, one, or third, was not important which, in the war, they were in positions, could do their jobs in particular. But some division, some basis, here I'm going to tell you that Mr. Liska has been interrogating and SIPA has been involved in some war crimes reports at the High. Are these trials discrediting Mr. Liska so we don't discuss him today? I don't think so. Because we simply don't have any official organ attitude that said that in the actions of the mentioned gentleman there are some actions that would disqualify him in one of these positions. I am ĉinjenice that in the struggles for different positions, even within the same structures, various anonymous applications arrive where individual candidates try to discredit themselves. It is obvious that these reports that are coming and where they give data come with a clear intention: behold, if it is Mr. Lisak, these are his opponents from the same people who wanted to possibly position him. This brings us all to a very complex situation that when we decide on such serious issues, I really need to measure well, evaluate well, because these people we ask – these people have received our support. These people today-to-morrow when they're working, they're working with our push-ins, because we said do it. Of course we need to control them. And I find this very, very, same as Mr. Krešić, emotionally difficult to fall, but what is there. The war is behind us. But I would appeal, if ever possible, for candidates who propose to be overly electrocuted, then morally, because they work here for everyone. They work for everyone. And so I've really been brought into a dilemma about how to put myself in this situation. How do you vote? Do you vote on the ĉinjenici that, I don't know, the war chief in Sarajevo was responsible for some of the actions, I don't know, the late Ramiz Delalić. If we accept that principle of general approach, it is. But it's not, there's a minimum responsibility, and there's a responsibility that goes beyond that for every ĉovjeka, and that's why I'm not in a position to be a judge. I, for Mr. Pekić, spoke of by Mr. Krešić, for the first time I had heard of that name and of the fact that it only existed when I received these materials, i.e. that's the candidate I should vote on. It's very difficult for me to vote on. For Mr. Liska, I only went through the media. I never heard of this other candidate until I got this material. There is a problem that we should have possible and legislative mechanisms that will ensure that designated commissions – and based on the profession, rules, rules – are indeed the ones that will make decisions. Here, now I say, I don't even know what Mr. Lisak is, or what Mr. Number Two is, or what Mr. Pekić is like, and I've been put in a position to give my vote. That's the problem I wanted universally to point out that we have to deal with very, very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u348	Thank you. I call on Mr Tadić, the chairman, to take the reins. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u349	Mr. Krešić, on behalf of everyone here, you can be sure that you enjoy the compassion of what your pain is. And it's a big deal that the responsible people will be punished for that pain. Now, if I were to continue the discussion, I would tell you about which all the members of my family were never determined or who was involved in how they were killed in the war. Secondly, the House of People did not create this situation. This situation has reached the House of Peoples. And we, when we declare ourselves here on any ĉemu, do not declare ourselves to Sreta, or Lisk, or Slipac, but to the next people. Lisak Sead, from biography: 'After the end of the four-year term of office of Deputy Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of 10. Nine. In 2009, in accordance with the law, I returned to the institution where I worked before my appointment, and I was currently deployed to the offices of the central investigative office at the BiH Border Police Office in the Chief Inspector's Office." Dragan Slipac: 'After the war took place in '95. Decommissioning from the HVO unit, I am employed in the MUP HR Herceg Bosnia, National Security Service, the Centre of Knights, on the operations of an operational employee, and then on behalf of the Centre of the National Security Centre of the Knights. I'm staying on these jobs until the end of '96. After that, I move to the Federal Ministry of Interior at the head of the Department of Technical Protection at the Department of Counter-Diversion Protection of the Federal Police Department of the Criminal Police Department of the Federal Ministry, and later customs, etc. Pekić: "The Chief Inspector at the BiH Ministry of Security Inspectorate." These are the people who are getting paid by us, who are at the highest police posts and who have come before a commission as candidates. There's a minister of security, maybe you could say how pleased he is with the work of one of them, if he's in his jurisdiction. There is one law that has never been passed, and you are the first, all of you sitting here are not ready to pass it – the lustration law so that all of you who need to get out of there and out of this time to the right place and to see who can lead the safety of the citizens of this country. As long as we don't show that kind of honesty, I can't have three top inspectors of this country getting paid for one night becoming black crows because they're here for something. That's impossible. And I really don't want in any way to be manipulated by either those who are for this option or those who are against it. I just ţelim to say here: we have a situation in which the House of Representatives has made the decision it has made. That decision is either confirmed here or that decision collapses. That part of the story is about the European Commission's demands, we got ten letters from Davidi, and the Collars discussed it, and we fought to get this job done. And as for those political evaluations of the first and last on the list, and that list was made by MPs like us, the same, and gave someone more points to someone less points. There's just no explanation here why it would be one way or another. We know that we can go into this process and end it to the joy of the EU, we can say that none of this is of interest to us and declare people who today receive wages from this country ad hoc war criminals, for the purpose of voting on today's agenda. Thank you. There are no others reported for the vote, for the hearing, I apologize. 59 I am launching a statement on the proposal to appoint Sead Lisak as director of the Agency, first Deputy Director Dragan Slipac, and second Deputy Director Sreto Pekić. I'm starting the vote. I find that the vote... on taièka 26 in the first round was completed by the fact that of the 14 present 'for' there were nine delegates, 'against' one,'sustained' four. Six delegates voted from the Federation. One was "against", three "restraint". The RS voted three delegates "yes" and one was "sustained". I find that there is a general and entity majority and that the director of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency for the fight against corruption is Sead Lisak, first Deputy Dragan Slipac, and second Deputy Sreto Pekić. Thank you. Moving to the 27th agenda: Ad. 27. Proposal for the appointment of one representative of the academic community at the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (proposed by the Interim Joint Commission both at home), material number: 01,02-50-1-441-6/10, of 30. 8. 2010 In line with the zakljuĉkom of the 80th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives held on 30.6.2010 and with the 48th session of the National Assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held in 13.7.2010, the Interim Joint Committee on the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption at the 7th session, held on 25 and 30 August 2010, set out a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. The Commission unanimously adopted a proposal to appoint academic candidate Muris ĉiĉić to the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption as a representative of the academic community. You have received a report from the Commission. The House of Representatives appointed Muris ĉiĉića as a representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. I invite you to engage if you wish. It's not on the logbook. Still, eh now I have a record, thank you. She's an esteemed colleague of Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u351	Here, since the Interim Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly was to appoint a member in front of the academic community, or one already filled and one 60 in front of the NGO, knowing this three-members, and it is logical that the representatives of all three peoples are represented in this one commission, we today have a proposal from the Bosniak people on the agenda. I, as far as I'm aware, that a tender has already been called, and indeed not one of the other candidates or candidates from another nation's ranks in front of the academic community has even reported. At this point, I would like to say that in front of the Croatian People's Club, we are not going to support the proposed proposal, and also in front of the Club I propose, unless this proposal gets the required majority, that the temporary joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes be formed to implement the procedure of appointing two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Okay. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. Thank you. We're moving on to a statement on this agenda. So, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to appoint Muris ĉiĉića as the representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Thank you. I find that three delegates, 'against' nine delegates and'sustained' were two delegates in the vote on the 27th agenda in the first round of 14 present delegates. Three delegates voted from the Federation, 'against' five delegates, 'abstained' two delegates. There were four delegates from the RS. I find that there is no general majority for this election and that we have not appointed Academyman Muris ĉiĉića as the representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. gospoċo Krišto, the conclusion you mentioned, do you have in writing or can you...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u353	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u354	A five-minute break to prepare the conclusion, I apologize to you. [[PAUZA]] gospoċo Krišto, can you now announce the text of the conclusion? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u356	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u358	Thank you. 'The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one representative of the academic community to the Committee for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption: A temporary joint committee of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement the procedure of appointing one representative of the academic community to the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption, in the follow-up to the Committee's text. Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The temporary joint committee shall be appointed in front of the House of Representatives by three members of the Parliament and before the House of the Peoples of the Three Envoys." I take this opportunity to use this opportunity in front of the Croatian People's Club in this delegation to propose Mr. Josip merdţu. 'Land 3. The task of the Interim Joint Committee is to carry out the advertising procedure for the Committee and home to propose the appointment of a candidate appointed in the 1st order of this conclusion to be appointed. Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 is replaced by the following: This conclusion takes effect on the day of adoption in the same text in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and is published in the Official Messenger of BiH." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u359	Thank you, Lady Krišto. 62 You have heard the text of this conclusion. According to the proposed conclusion, the representatives of the delegates' clubs should propose two other nations from their ranks. kolega Simić, you have canceled again. I'd like to ask you to press the key again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I propose Professor Dr Mladen Ivanić to the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u361	Thank you, fellow Simić. A fellow Genjac. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, classmate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u362	Mr. Hasan Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u363	Hasan Bećirović. Thank you for your contribution. Now I call upon you to plead with me on the text of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. In the vote... on tadjka 27 in the first round: out of 14 present delegates 'for' voted 14 delegates, and from Federation 10, and from RS - four, there is a general and entity majority for this decision, so I realize that the conclusion was proposed by the adopted colleague Borjana Krišto in connection with this agenda. Thank you. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. That's the 28th Taco. Ad. 28. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska (the material of the Council of Ministers of BiH), issue: 01.02-50-3-1117/10, of 7. Ten. 2010 The BiH Council of Ministers is held at the 5th session. Ten. In 2010, on a proposal from the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal for a Decision appointing the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the Republic of Slovenia, which is proposed by Milorad Tuševljak to the Commission. The Council of Ministers' notice, i.e. the proposal for a decision, was attached. You have also received the opinion of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Traffic and Communications. The Commission adopted a proposal for a Council of Ministers to appoint Milorad Tuševljak as the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity 63 energy from RS. The House of Representatives appointed Milorad Tuševljak as the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from RS. I'm opening a debate and I'm calling on the chairman of the Commission if he wants to take a decision. There's no need. Thank you. So, I'm opening a debate on this agenda, i.e. on this proposal. Is anyone picking up? I find there are no reports. I'm starting the vote. I call upon you to plead. Thank you. In the vote... on taddek 28th in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' voted 14; from Federation 10, from RS `four. There are both general and entity majority. And I find that we have appointed Milorad Tuševljak as the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from the RS. On the agenda of today's session, we have two practical topics left, which is to give consent to ratification of several agreements, protocols, contracts, memos, amendments to agreements and a proposal from the Constitutional Commission. With regard to the arrangements to be agreed on for the ratification of the agreement, I propose that we bring together discussion and clarification on granting consent to the ratification of the agreement, the Protocol, the Agreement, the Memorandum, the Amendment to the Agreement, from tai-29 to 52, including the Code 52. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communications. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify these agreements, so I urge you now to make a statement on these topics. I, first of all, give the chairman of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović, if he wishes. Dear counterpart Hasan Bećirović, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u365	I thank you, and I think that this proposal of yours, the chairman, is acceptable. In particular, what the Commission has given the People's House of Opinions to conclude and ratify all these agreements, contracts and protocols, but I just wanted to inform you that the Parliamentary Assembly is very much behind in the ratification of international agreements and agreements. According to some of my findings, there were a total of unwarranted until this session somewhere around 70 and some agreements and contracts. We would have ratified the previous session around 40, 40 and something. So, there's still a lot of these documents waiting for us, and we should, by my assessment, ratify them as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-28-0.u366	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. 64 What I can do as the chairman of the Kolegijum to inform you is that the College does not retain this material and serve its parliamentary obligations in accordance with the dynamics, which are determined by previous instance, so that this conclusion of the Commission I think we as a College should transfer to the first next Joint College of the Colleges of the House of Representatives, and then, in particular, propose to the colleagues, i.e. Mostly the Council of Ministers. Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. I'm opening a debate about the proposal I made. There isn't. So, we should now first declare that we are voting unitedly on these agendas, so from task 29 to task 52, including task 52. I'm starting the vote. Thank you. I find that in the vote... on the so-called agenda of the 28th round: out of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates voted 'yes'; from Federation 10, from the RS, and that there is a general and entity majority, which decides to make a unique statement on these proposals. Now we move to a vote with the help of a technical service in which we need to declare our agreement on ratification of the agreement, protocol, contract, memorandum, amendment to the agreement, from taièka 22 to takwa 52, including that of the 52nd agenda we are working on today. Tadjke 29, I apologize, thank you for your suggestion. So, from takk 29 to tak 52, including tak 52. I'm asking the tech service to give us a statement. Thank you. In the vote... on several agendas, in the first round, of the 14 delegates present there were 'for'; from Federation 10, from RS and there are both general and entity majority, so we gave consent to the ratification of agreements, protocols, contracts, memoranda, amendments to the agreement from takks 29 to 52, including that of today's 52nd agenda. We're going to the next item of the agenda, that's that 53. Ad. 53. Declaration on the Proposal for a conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission You've heard the explanation of your imported colleague, Krstan Simić, chairman of the Constitutional Commission, given in the debate on the agenda. This proposal for a conclusion is shared to all MPs and is available to you in the working materials you now have in front of you on your desktops. I call on my colleague, Krstan Simić, as he suggests, to declare whether something will contribute to his proposal? There's no need. Now I'm opening a debate on this conclusion. Is anyone picking up for re-up? Niko. Thank you. 65 We move to a plea. In the vote... on taddura 53rd in the first round: of the 14 present 'for' voted 14; from Federation 10, from the RS' four. There is also a general and entity majority and I find that the conclusion proposed by the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples has been adopted, and regarding this agenda of 53rd, on the extension of the amendment phase for the proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings. Thank you. Once again, I apologize for that urgent distraction we had a little bit to do with the one that was, the 2nd Taco agenda, the 3rd. That's how it turned out. Happy vacation. Of course, be available, as Mr. Denis Bećirović has said. The seat's over at 3:17.
