ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5131	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 5th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. At the meeting, we also invited representatives of the Central Bank of BiH, the Central Election Commission of BiH, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, the BiH Law Department, to discuss material from their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to the information service, 34 MPs are present. The absence was announced by Ismet Dervoz, and MP Asim Sarajlić announced a delay. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The revised and updated agenda of today's session you all received. As far as the changes and additions are concerned, I'd like to inform you next. On the agenda, we took point 3 off. Proposal for a Law on the Wine of BiH (second reading); point 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on mineral fertilisers (second reading); point 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act (second reading). These three points have been removed because the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is 13. Seven. In 2011, the Commission submitted a request for an extension of the deadline. The Home College set 22 as the deadline. Seven. 2011 Since BiH's Joint Defence and Security Commission was unable to determine and give its opinion, we have removed point 25 from the earlier agenda. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2010; point 26. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2010 and item 28. A report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2010. We've completed point 14. Proposal for a law on working days at the time of BiH's religious holidays, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. 2 We added new points to the agenda: 22. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the confirmation of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; 32. Resolution and appointment of a member of the delegation to the Central European Initiative (CEI) from the House of Representatives: a) Dragan Čović (HDZ BiH) appointed member of the CEI delegation at the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, held 9. Six. In 2011, duties are resolved due to the termination of the term of office of MPs in the House of Representatives, b) Zvonko Jurišić (HSP) is hereby appointed a member of the CEI delegation; 33. Resolution and appointment of a member of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development: (a) Petar Kunić is relieved of the duties of member of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, (b) Nikola Špirić is appointed member of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development; 38. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of Montenegro on co-operation in geodesy affairs; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Security with the Administrative Agreement on how to implement the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Insurance; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement for the financing of the RAD-Arranged equipment procurement project between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and United Credit Bank Austria AG; 41. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Kuwait; 44. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank – Water and RS Sanitation; 45. Giving consent to ratifying the Loan Guarantee Treaty for the Sarajevo International Airport between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 46. Granting approval for ratification of amendments to Treaty No 1 for the loan agreement of 9 December 2005 (regional railway project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 47. Giving consent to ratifying the Faculty Protocol under the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted in New York on 10 December 2008; 48. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the Culture programme (2007-2013).). I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda, and I remind you that such a agenda has been unanimously accepted on the extended college. Is anyone answering about the agenda? Beriz Belkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5133	Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, I respect, or appreciate that this has been agreed and I have no practical objection to the agenda itself, but I can't look back on the fact that 3 of today's session has come down, so as far as I could see, six points of the agenda. You've explained, and here in footnotes it says that these agenda points were downloaded at the request of the competent commissions. So it's one, though, not a new practice, but one unsustainable practice and I think it must be interrupted. So when we get the call, the draft, the first draft calls, it's a signal to all the commissions, they know when the session is scheduled, all the commissions do their job. So, it's about materials that are usually late, it's about reports from 2010, and I think that commissions have to take responsibility, because we're practically getting into a situation that because of individuals and presidents or members who can't come, etc., basically, we have a stalemate in the work of this House of Representatives. I've heard the most about it, so let's stop the practice of finding out that the commissions haven't processed a few points, five-six points of the agenda, and that because of the business inability to do so, they're coming down at the sitting on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5134	I thank Mr. Belkić. I'm finishing this part around the agenda. And about what MP Beriz Belkić was talking about, I would like to say that I am expressing my personal opinion that the intervention you have now presented is justified, in my court, and I just want to let you know that we also looked at this issue at the House College session and agreed on how and how to make all commissions fully aware of their work. An integral part of each MP's obligations is commission work, as are these sessions, and in this sense we will also as a College, and we have agreed to take some steps so that the commissions can do as planned in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I find that the 5th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th meetings of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-6410, of 8. 11. 2010 (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-5710, of 18. Ten. 2010 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-5810, of 18. Ten. 2010 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Seal Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-5110, of 30. 8. 2010 (second reading); 4 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-5210, of 30. 8. In 2010 (second reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-711 of 12. 5. 2011 (second reading); 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the forced collection of indirect taxes, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1011, of 24. 5. 2011 (second reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Other Refunds in BiH-level Judicial and Prosecutorial Institutions, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-311, of 31. 3. 2011 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law on non-working days at the time of BiH's religious holidays, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-6210, of 5. 11. In 2010, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5510 of 11. Ten. 2010 (first reading); 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5410, of 11. Ten. 2010 (first reading); 14. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-7-5610, of 12. Ten. 2010; 15. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-7-6110, of 3. 11. 2010; 16. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Council of Ministers' request to discuss the proposal for a law amending the Ministry Act and other administration bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-5-6010, of 26. Ten. 2010; 17. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Bill on the Budget Law of BiH and BiH's 2011 International Obligations, Proposer of the BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-1-511, of 17. 5. 2011 (first reading); 18. The Commission's report on the BiH institutions' and international commitments for 2011, which reads "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House of Representatives mandates the Council of Ministers to, after the adoption of the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the International Obligations for 2011, the Independent Commission for 5 Follow-up to the Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the BiH Court of Justice, by foreign courts for the actions provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by BiH or by another court in accordance with the BiH law, is approved by the budget reserve in the amount of 145,000 KM, which is not applicable to it. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, proposed by the Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-811, of 18. 5. 2011 (first reading); 20. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1111, dated 30. 5. 2011 (first reading); 21. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications on the Proposal for a Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-6310, of 8. 11. 2010; 22. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the validation of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman; 23. Report by the Central Election Commission of BiH on the law enforcement of the Central Election Commission for 2010, material No 01,02-07-29711, of 12. 4. 2011; 24. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number 01-50-19-33411, dated 26. 4. 2011; 25. Financial Report from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number 01-50-19-33511, dated 26. 4. 2011; 26. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2010, material No 01,02,011,021-08-38411, dated 20. 5. 2011; 27. Report on BiH's Attorney General's work for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2010, material number 01.02-10-38711 of 20. 5. 2011; 28. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material No 01,02-37-51411, of 6. Six. 2011; 29. Appointment of the Directors and Two Deputy Directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (Reference for a Commission candidate to elect and monitor the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency), material No 01,02-50-1-910-510, of 11. 1. 2011; 30. Proposal for the appointment of one representative of the academic community at the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (Proposal of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes), material No 01,02-50-1441-610, of 30. 8. 2010; 31. Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska (the Council of Ministers material) No 01.02-50-3-111710, of 7. Ten. 2010; 32. Resolution and appointment of a member of the delegation to the Central European Initiative (CEI) from House of Representatives 6 (a) Dragan Čović (HDZ BiH) appointed member of the CEI delegation at the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, held 9. Six. In 2011, duties are resolved due to the termination of the term of office of MPs in the House of Representatives, b) Zvonko Jurišić (HSP) is hereby appointed a member of the CEI delegation; 33. Resolution and appointment of a member of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development (a) Petar Kunić is hereby dismissed as a member of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, (b) Nikola Špirić is hereby appointed member of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the realisation of the project – Establishment of a calibration laboratory for electric sizes and laboratories for testing the safety of electrical devices and electromagnetic compatibility – between the Council of Ministers of BiH, represented by the Institute of Measurement of BiH, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Centre for International Co-operation and Development; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities in relation to the programme of funding Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the ERDF's transnational European territorial co-operation programmes 'Southeast Europe' and 'Meditirane' under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), a component of cross-border co-operation, for 2009; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities for a multi-user programme for Tempus under the IPA component of transition and institution building for 2009; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2009; 38. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of Montenegro on co-operation in geodesy affairs; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Grand Duchy of Luksembur on social security with the Administrative Agreement on how to implement the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the velik vojvodstvo of Luxembourg on Social Insurance; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement for the financing of the RAD-based equipment procurement project between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and United Credit Bank Austria AG; 41. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Kuwait; 42. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the Bosnia and Herzegovina border programme – Montenegro under the IPA-ina border co-operation for 2009; 43. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities on the border programme 7 Bosnia and Herzegovina – Serbia under IPA's 2009 border co-operation; 44. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty of Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank – Water and Retirement of RS; 45. Giving consent to ratifying the Loan Guarantee Treaty for Sarajevo International Airport between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 46. Granting approval to ratify Amendments and Supplements to Treaty No 1 for the Loan Treaty of 9 December 2005 (regional railway project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 47. Giving consent to ratifying the Faculty Protocol under the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted in New York on 10 December 2008; 48. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Culture programme (2007-2013) We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5137	Thank you, Chairman. I have one remark, one suggestion. The reference is made to the Journal of the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, on page 5, where the questions referred to the College of the House of Representatives are discussed. In particular, it's two questions. I got an oral response to one, I didn't get one. It says here, "The chair gave oral answers to questions at the session." I just want to remind you: I did not get, nor did I really expect right away, especially not the oral answer to the question: "Is there still and what laws have been declared by the High Representative, which this Parliamentary Assembly has not yet confirmed or adopted?" And another suggestion (I'd just like to remind you that I'm expecting an answer)...related to the 4th-session record. Let me remind you, this was a session to confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman. The record is contained in less than two pages. Among other things, an extensive discussion, almost all day long, stands in one paragraph, which lists only those who participated in the discussion. I personally appreciate, given the importance of the agenda point, 8 to be useful if it were a short copy of the debate of MPs or the basic aspects of the discussion of individual Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5138	Since there are no more applications under the first item of the agenda, I am concluding the debate within this agenda point. I think that these interventions by counterpart Hadžiahmetović should be incorporated into this Rules of Procedure, and as far as the 4th session of the House of Representatives is concerned, I think that this suggestion should also be considered in the future. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received I find that by today's session there was no answer to questions asked, so we move on to this part under b) b) New MPs' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5141	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the question addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs: 'What stage is the takeover and implementation of the project concerning the fight against HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis in BiH approved by the Global Fund and by the UNDP? For more than five years, BiH has been implementing a project against HIV/AIDS approved by the UN, or the Global Fund, and since then, the government, headed by Mr. Terzić, or the Council of Ministers, has refused to take responsibility for the management of the project, so has entered an international organisation called the UNDP and since then spends 7% of the funds. It's about millions of dollars. I ask when the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs will take over this project, because our people in the UNDP are working there and they are fully trained to do so in the Council of Ministers and that these 7% of the funds remain in this state, not international organisations." Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5142	Before we proceed with the parliamentary issues, in order to do what is more effective, I would only remind you of the business provisions, and especially of Rule 152. Therefore, questions are brought to the speaker in writing, the submission also contains a statement whether the MP is asking for an oral reply in the House or a written reply. In the event that nothing is stated, the answer is deemed to be given orally at the House session. I will not mention these other provisions, I believe you are familiar with them, concerning parliamentary matters. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5143	Dear members of the presidency, respected colleagues and colleagues, my question is addressed to BiH's defence body. In accordance with Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I would like to address the following question: 'To the judicial verdict of the Court of Justice, issue 5431/08 of 9. 4. In 2010, which was confirmed by the Court of Justice's ruling, number: 82/10 of 2. 3. In 2011, among other things, BiH Foreign Ministry solutions were annulled, number: 10921-02-4896/02 of 11. 3. 2002 and number: 10921-02-17878/02 of 10. Seven. In 2002 and Bosnia and Herzegovina – The Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – was ordered to Dr. Darko Trifunović returns to work and schedules to the appropriate workplace according to his professional skills within 15 days of the day of the verdict. According to available data, the BiH Foreign Ministry is the absolute champion among all BiH's joint institutions and the most complaints, complaints, objections to the MIP's work, for a period when BiH's diplomacy was sovereignly ruled by SDP leader Zlatko Lagumdžija. Serbian diplomat Darko Trifunović was illegally expelled from the post of first secretary of the BiH mission at the UN in March 2002, and Dr. After nine years of struggle, Trifunović finally received a court dispute of nearly a million marks that would require the culprit to answer for this condition. The case of Darko Trifunović is not the only one, and former Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija's practice continued until the end of his term, placing the institution in an unfair first place by the number of working-law disputes. Accordingly, I would like to ask myself the following questions: 1.How taxful is the working-law dispute initiated at the time of the Ministerial of Zlatko Lagumdžija at the head of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for what reason? 2. How many of these disputes have been lost, stating individual judgments? 3. How much is the individual and total value of lost disputes, i.e. how much has been paid out of the BiH budget or should be paid for the arbitrary and illegal work of the former minister? 4. What will the BiH Law Department do to compensate for the damage caused by the irresponsible and illegal work of the former minister? Will a regressive lawsuit be launched and when?' I ask the answer in writing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5144	The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5145	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'm going to repeat that I expect a written answer to the earlier question, I just intervened on the record. For today's session, I have two questions. First question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Justice: 'Please provide accurate and accurate information on the legal aspects of the arrest and detention of General Jovan Divjak in Austria. The activities carried out by the NGO, information that is being placed in the media and the silence of institutions, I will specifically mention the resolution ministry with the exception of the obvious at the very beginning which was from the point of view of the profession – cause many speculation and speculation. I appreciate that this parliament should be familiar, especially with what I have pointed out: the legal aspects of the arrest case." The second question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'What is the status of the signed Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia that regulates social security issues? According to the information available, the ratification process of the Agreement was concluded in the procedure in the Republic of Slovenia, and since it is an agreement of special importance for BiH, given the significant number of our citizens who are temporarily staying, or working in the Republic of Slovenia, that the complete procedure for this agreement is terminated as soon as possible. In that sense, and I ask written answers to these two questions." And here, in the end, allow, not considered less important, one intervention on the exhibition, i.e. the discussion of my colleague Majkić. If Dr. Darko Trifunović points out, and he's doing a good job of referring to Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, then I'd like to ask you to equalize those arches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5146	The next issue was addressed by Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5147	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the Regulatory Agency for Nuclear Safety and I expect a written answer from them. In fact, the activities of the Association of Citizens of Zenica, called the Citizens' Action in Zenica, have, with the help of some professional organisations, determined the level of radiation at the industrial dump of Rač, which is outside the limits allowed. They claim that radiation is far greater. My question is, "What will the Nuclear Safety Regulatory Agency do on the basis of this issue, that is, this information?" 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5148	Thank you. The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions for the Council of Ministers. The first is: "What formal status does the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of BiH have, and does it work?" Second: 'In which phase is the Agreement with the Republic of Croatia on the opening of border crossings with phytosanitary and veterinary services, so-called BIPs? Third: 'In which phase is the revision of the Strategy and the Action Plan for Integrated Border Management of BiH, and whether the Strategy will increase the number of border crossings with BIP services towards the EU, i.e. The northern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's border where mainly the biggest traffic of goods towards the EU is?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5150	Thank you. The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5151	The Honorable Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, my parliamentary question was addressed to the Director-General of BH Television. I don't know if the General, the Management Board, who's in charge there? And the question is: "When will BH television stop, under the supposed signs of course, terrorizing the Serb people in the RS with its reporting?" I don't want to be making a parallel with a report of what happened in Srebrenica right away. It's all right. On July 12th, when Srbin mark Petrovdan and the death of Srbin in Bratunc and Podrinj, there is a 2 minutes and 46 seconds contribution in the news daily. Then there's news of the killing of nine soldiers, and now I'm not going into that case at all, how it happened, who did it, but I'm talking about the information, three minutes and 12 seconds in Repovci, where the BiH Army members were killing each other. Then it goes in the same diary on Paravignja for 4 minutes and 23 seconds. 12 I am not asking if anyone is watching this television in the RS, I think it is small ratings, and I am not the Agency that determines how much anyone is watching, but I am asking a question for objective reasons, because the citizens of the RS, and when I say citizens, I mean the Serbian people, they pay a fee for that television and they are bitter about the work of that television, by reporting it. So, if she's called, and in the last term, I've also asked those questions to answer me, if she's called, if she prefers to be this country's television, is it possible that management there, not by me or those in the editorial policy, is not my intention, but I'm asking an objective question, because the Serbian people no longer want to pay a fee. And you know what that means? That means there's no fee for radio-television RS, which is the only positive business in the entire system. And I don't want to, and I don't have a right to. I don't want to break the law, invite someone not to pay the subscription. That's not right. But they're looking for people, here's open Srbin from the RS, to stop media satanization, I don't know what to call it anymore, which I won't insult anyone, to break up with a media alab from that television that only has one editorial policy: what Sarajevo said, what he said, what he said. Half of this country, one entity, or I don't know which, one third here, of the Serb people, of the three constituents, pays that tax. Not by your own free will. If they asked themselves and it was possible, no one would single out the stamp. And to conclude, here it is, not the techs, the cameramen, the press, they're not responsible for such reporting. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5152	I thank Mr. Jovičić. The word has Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5153	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask one parliamentary question, which refers to the Constitution of BiH, the Federation of BiH, the RS, as well as the laws on the state service of these levels of government as the mandatory proportional representation of constituent peoples in public institutions and their equal participation. In order to ensure the constitutional principle of equality between the constitutional peoples in the whole of BiH, as well as the principles of non-discrimination, also established in the Constitution of BiH, and with regard to the implementation of the International Convention on the Elimination of All forms of discrimination, which is part of the Constitution of BiH, it was necessary to ensure the proportionate representation of constituent peoples in the bodies of the administration of all levels of government in BiH, i.e. in public institutions. Each State Party to the Convention has committed itself to its application and is obliged to monitor its implementation in the whole country. Because of this, I ask a parliamentary question: 'What is the proportional ethnic representation in the authorities of the administration and local self-government in BiH, including all levels of government - municipalities, cantons, entities and the state of BiH compared to the '91 census. A year? I ask that this answer be delivered in writing." 13
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5154	The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5155	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer one parliamentary question to the Federation of BiH government: 'At the recent and last session of the federal government, a decision has been made to fiscalise, introduce fiscal cash registers, when it comes to health institutions, exclusively introduce private health institutions without public health institutions being affected by this decision. I would like to remind you that there is no discrimination between the private sector and the public sector under the existing law, and therefore this decision is absolutely anachronous. I would also add that harmonisation of the law is done in the RS, that there is fiscalisation equal to both private and public sectors. A sick man, Mr. President, doesn't choose an institution private or public. He chooses an institution he trusts. By law, every patient in BiH's territory, both the RS and the Federation, has the right, if necessary, to be admitted to an institution closest to him and most qualitative. So I ask you, in writing, to make me a comment or an explanation of this decision by the Federation of BiH government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5156	I just want to remind myself that neither I nor those who follow me will be the chairman nor those who were the chairman before me have any answers. What is my job is that your question, when you deliver it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is to forward it to the competent institutions or bodies to which you have asked the question. I expect everyone to answer all the questions, not just yours. It's Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5157	Thank you. My question was addressed to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council: 'I am interested in what assessment was it evaluated in 2009 and 2010 by Prosecutor Goran Rubil of the Doboj District Attorney's Office?' A little later in the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I will look more closely at this case. I must say, here I give up my parliamentary immunity, and let Mr. Rubil sue me, that he knowingly misused his position so that today in the RS we may have a licensed murderer, Rajk Savić, and that his failures have led to an acquittal in this case. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5158	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5159	My question is for the BiH Presidency and the BiH Ministry of Finance, and I would like a written reply. The question is: 'Is the BiH Presidency, as a proposing, and the Ministry of Finance, as a processor of the Bill on Budgets of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2011, after the House of Representatives did not support this budget, including entity support, and after non-compliance by the College, or is it simply allowed to go downstream? Of course, it is also a responsibility in this parliament to try to look for solutions, and we look this way, I will get an answer in an idiocy way when we vote in the second round, we seem to release the budget without trying and giving a chance to reach the amendment phase to try to find a solution and save the practical functioning of BiH institutions. As things stand, if today's budget falls in the first reading, we can't theoretically have a budget for 2011 until September." So, please a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5160	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5161	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have one parliamentary question and one initiative, and I will do it in this order. So my parliamentary question is addressed to the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency and I am looking for an answer in writing. The parliamentary question is: 'The Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance plan for June is planned to make standards for the licensing of higher education institutions and study programmes, so the following questions are: What has established higher education institutions so far, it is known that this is done by political decisions, and when will licenses be given according to the standards that are being adopted? Could cantons, before establishing standards for the establishment and closure of higher education institutions, establish higher education institutions according to their criteria and how long will such practice exist? When will the accreditation of higher education institutions in BiH begin? What are the consequences of not asking for accreditation for institutions and students and in what form?" In fact, I'm initiating the question because at a conference I heard that since August of the month a degree from the Bosnian-Herzegovina universities will not be valid. Are there deadlines for accreditation of existing higher education institutions? Has the public, particularly the student, been informed of the accreditation processes? That's my parliamentary question. 15 And the Parliament's initiative was sent to the Council of Ministers, and it refers to the establishment and award of a state reward for quality. The Council of Ministers should make a decision on the establishment of a state award for quality in BiH in line with the Council of Ministers' Declaration of Quality, which states that the Council of Ministers, knowingly of its role in promoting quality ideas in BiH, adopted a Quality Declaration confirming its sincere commitment to promote coherent application of European ideas, principles, principles and standards on the path to European integration. That was in November 2001. The goal of establishing a state award for quality is, respecting and applying all internationally accepted standards of conduct and business – BiH finds that its commitment to European integration is an expression of a serious strategic effort to achieve this goal in due course. Then I gave an explanation and I will only read it in one sentence, and in writing I will provide it in an integral form. The state award for quality and business excellence is a tool...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5162	The time for asking questions is up. I hope it's in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5163	Okay. It's got everything in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5164	Thank you. The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5165	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. I have one question that I would like to address to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: 'It is known that BiH has committed itself to respecting a number of EU directives on environmental protection. We are signatories of the Treaty on the Energy Community of Southeast Europe, the Kelton Protocol, the Framework Convention on Climate Change and many others, so I am interested in what stage the implementation of the Kelton Protocol in BiH is, as well as the creation of a state action plan for environmental protection, so-called. The neap plan. I'd also like to ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5166	Thank you. The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5167	Good afternoon, everyone. I have a few MPs' questions. 16 First of them, I refer to the Directorate for European Integration: ‘In what ways does the Directorate for European Integration promote the process of European integration, which target groups are covered, and does the possibility of full integration of this process into the education system in our country have been considered?’ The second question is for the competent institution: 'What is the number of registered, and how many really active associations and foundations at the level of BiH, which are associations and foundations, what are their respective areas of work? It is thought, therefore, geographically." The next question is for the Regulatory Agency for Communications: 'What stage is the digitalisation process in our country, is this process going according to plan and what are the difficulties in this process?' And the last question, also for the competent institution: 'Who in BiH, and does anyone at all, oversee the credit responsibilities of local self-government units, is this process under control and what problems are in this area?' I don't think there's any need to specifically explain these questions. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5168	The word has Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5169	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honourable ministers, my question... is addressed to the Ministry of Justice and refers to the process of establishing and creating conditions for functioning at the full capacity of the Medical Psychology Clinic at Sokoc. So: 'How much has the Justice Department done to create an environment for this clinic to start working at full capacity as soon as possible, given the observations and importance of international organisations for inadequate treatment of forensic cases in the field of psychiatry? First of all, I also think of the material conditions, which would be the basic assumption that this clinic is being trained and functioning, and certainly sufficient number of protégés from all over BiH." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5170	Thank you. And the last reported Petar Kunić. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5171	I would like to ask the following question: ‘How many are the total employees of civil servants in BiH institutions, with a special statement: civil servants, deputies, or employees, of course, in executive structures, in the Council of Ministers, public administration bodies and administrative organisations, directors, offices, agencies, etc., with a special number shown in police structures, intelligence services?’ And I would like to ask a question, of course, that concerns the Ministry of Justice: 'As far as I know, some discussions have begun on the creation of common grounds for passing expert state exams in BiH as part of the reform of the state administration, yes'... now it is different, somewhere tests are held, somewhere written and oral exams etc. Anyway, that's not good. The programmes are not uniform, they have to be recognised etc., the problem of recognising exams in entities, state institutions, etc. So, how long has it been since, as far as I know, at the level of BiH institutions, the exam is being tested? As far as I'm concerned, it's not an exam, it's not an expert state exam and he's incomplete. It particularly fits with the State Administration Agency when it organizes. So, I don't know the basics, I ask the question to give an answer." So, in any case... it needs to be activated in the direction of creating some common ground, creating common manuals, not different contents that are subject to the state exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5172	Thank you. I'm closing the second item of the agenda. I'm opening the third item of the agenda: "Ad." 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial exam in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-5-64/10, of 8. 11. 2010 (second reading) I remind you, at the 3rd session of the House, held on 22nd. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission has submitted Report 7. Seven. 2011 I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5174	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this law is on the Constitutional Commission supported unanimously by all of us present at the session. We appreciate that it is an important law that resolves some Bosnian-Herzegovina indetermination with regard to the Bologna process, with regard to higher education. And I call upon the House of Representatives to pass this law. And the other thing I want to say is that we had a meeting with the Ministry of Justice, that we agreed with the Ministry of Justice all amendments to all these laws that were mentioned here and that these amendments were adopted with the consent of the Justice Ministry, or the Council of Ministers on the Constitutional Commission. I mean these laws to point 8. that have amendments. So this should be undeniable stuff and I suggest that this law be supported, of course, like the others, because I won't answer again if I don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5175	Thank you. I find that there are no more registered within this agenda. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on registration of legal persons established by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-9-57/10, of 18. Ten. 2010 (second reading) At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission submitted the report 7. Seven. In 2011, three amendments were adopted. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: 19 Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-9-58/10, of 18. Ten. 2010 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5180	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5181	Mr. Đugum reporting. I'm just going to ask you, so if we have to wait a little longer, when I ask if there are any reports that you're applying at the time of the debate. This isn't just about you, colleague Đugum. Here you go. You called about the 8th point?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5182	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5184	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on application and protection of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5185	That's the 7th point of the agenda. So about the 7th point of the agenda. Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5186	No, no. Suggestion...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5187	It's all right. So, the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5188	I'm sorry. It was scheduled for 8:00, so. From the very name of the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it stems from the regulation of the issue of use and protection of the name BiH. However, this law regulates only the rights of public, cultural and other institutions, as well as associations of citizens to use BiH's name under certain conditions. I believe that this law should establish the obligation of state authorities, entity bodies, cantons, cities and municipalities, and public enterprises, which exercise public authority – to use the name BiH when writing their names. It should be noted that the Law on the importance of public documents in BiH requires that public documents issued in BiH and in all chapters contain besides the names of BiH and the name of the issuer of public documents. When public documents are issued by relevant bodies or entity organisations, public documents in all headers contain besides the name BiH and the name of the entity. It means that the issue of the use of the name BiH has been regulated for public documents, but for the inscriptions of state authorities, public enterprises and other institutions that exercise public authority, the issue of use of the BiH name has not been properly resolved. It is therefore necessary to identify this issue in a unique way. 21 I propose that the House of Representatives adopt a conclusion authorising the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider this issue at one of the next sessions of preparations and to submit to the House of Representatives for consideration the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Use and Protection of the Name of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5189	Before I give my word to Mr. Džaferović, I just want to say that this is the law in the second reading. So, I remind all my colleagues and colleagues that no amendment has been delivered here. So, here, this does not apply to the presentation of colleagues of Đugum, but I would like to say that when it comes to the laws that are in the second reading to make sure that the proposed amendments are discussed here, next order of members to which they have been submitted, so you have this business provision in mind. Here you go, colleague Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5190	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the question of fellow Đuguma is a very important issue, and that is why I have stood up to make only one brief comment about it. It may not be best placed in the right place, but it is a very important and very important issue and it can also be submitted to discuss this agenda point. The use of our country's name is mandatory in certain institutions and in certain places and can be optional. The one where it must be prescribed by the constitution, the laws, and about it, colleague Đugum tells me how much I understood him. It's fakultativan there when something is organised, an association or an institution that wants to have a name for itself, and then needs the approval of the state, or the Ministry of Justice. And colleague Đugum, this law is just about what I'm talking about; colleague Đugum rightly, because of the inconsistencies observed in practice, is asking a question about this first sphere, because BiH's name is not used where it should be used and not used in the right way that it should be used. And I would ask only my colleague Đugum – I support his initiative, I think it is good – only that, when he formulates the conclusion and delivers to you, he does not ask the Council of Ministers for this, but to ask the Council of Ministers for information on the issue: about how the name BiH is used, starting with MZ, municipalities, cantons, entities, public enterprises or anything else. If my colleague Đugum could appreciate this, then I would support this as a conclusion and this would be a very good thing and a very well-detected phenomenon, a negative phenomenon in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5191	I find that there are no more reported within the seventh item of the agenda. I'm closing item seven of the agenda. 22 Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-7/11, of 12. 5. 2011 (second reading) At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission has submitted Report 7. Seven. In 2011, with five amendments adopted. Ambassador Milorad Živković is our 12th. Seven. In 2011, he submitted three amendments which, in accordance with Article 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, again defends at the plenary stage. You've all got the amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. The word is Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5193	Here I will make a kind of brief comment, which is my opinion on the amendments of my colleague Živković. So it is certain that I do not need to stress the importance of this law, that is, how important this sector is, the development, or the degree of civil society's development for the democracy of every community, or every country, as well as ours. In my opinion, these amendments, which again defend here in the plenary phase, Mr. Živković, in some way, in a very concrete way, restrict the freedom of association of people. So, first of all, I'm thinking about conditioning the number of people in the establishment of an organization. In some ways it comes directly to the contrary to this definition, therefore, to the absolute freedom of association of people. Of course all of this should work on some of the principles of democracy, etc., but to limit the number, I don't think that's right. Also, this one of the amendments, which essentially requires a list and a number of members, names, last names, etc., in some ways, enters into the privacy of people and their right to freely associate. So, just for those reasons, which are very important in my opinion, for me, that is, for the MPs of the Party for BiH, these amendments are not acceptable and we will vote against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5194	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5195	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is about the Council of Ministers' attempt to fix the existing Law on Associations and Foundations with a clear intention, how I was informed or how we were informed at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, that, very soon, by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice, two separate laws, the law on associations and the law on foundations were launched. We had a few amendments to this law, first of all, to the amendment of the Ministry of Justice, which we have defined together with the Ministry of Justice. Then they were amendments to an NGO. One NGO addressed the Constitutional Commission and we held a meeting together with them, prepared these amendments and discussed them on this committee and offered three amendments or four – one and a half amendments. So it was useful that we had one open-ended co-operation with the NGO sector. That's what I especially want to get under here, and that's how we're gonna do it in the future. So, to letters coming from the NGO sector and all those who are interested, even though they are not entities that can invest amendments, we will respond in a way that we will consider and see what can really be adopted. This letter of an NGO proved to be very useful because we even got an expert opinion about this law. And the third thing I want to say is the amendments that have been submitted. We had on the Constitutional Commission and amendments to which Mr Belkić spoke. These are Mr. Živković's amendments. These amendments were not accepted by the Constitutional Commission. Be careful, one of the principles on which Dayton BiH operates is the unreserved respect for four freedoms. It's freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of people, freedom of movement of capital and freedom of movement of services. So this is a constitutional principle entered in the first member of the BiH Constitution and there must be no limit to anyone when respect for these freedoms in BiH relating to freedom of movement is Wednesday. When an association or foundation is founded at BiH level, it means that it is an association operating in the entire BiH state and has the right to establish it whoever meets the legal requirements of BiH. The amendments offered are subject to one condition that is a restriction on these freedoms. The amendment requires that an association cannot be formed at BiH level without one third of the members being from one entity at least and two thirds from another entity. It is something contrary to this fundamental constitutional principle, and therefore this cannot be accepted, because each of us has the right to establish a foundation and that it operates on the entire state of BiH, regardless of which entity we are in. This is a... one attempt that goes directly into one of the foundations on which BiH operates. And that's why this couldn't be accepted, and I call on the House not to accept these amendments, because they were repeated in the plenary phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5196	The word has the first deputy chairman, Mr. Živković Milorad.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5197	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let's relax the situation right now. Whether these amendments will be accepted, I will vote in favour of this bill, but to acknowledge here that there are problems and abuses in the implementation of this law, that three BiH people have the right, and very often do so, abuse the possibility of others being members of these associations. For example, in the The BiH Disabilities Association, you well know that it is not the BiH Association of Persons with Disabilities, it is only part of BiH, and everywhere in the world it reports and shows and abuses the name BiH. If you don't want to talk about that there's a problem, there's an abuse and we try to figure out a way to solve this problem and eliminate this abuse, then I won't propose any amendments. But if you want to talk about it and if you want to solve this problem, let's see how we can solve it. So, I'm giving up these amendments, there's no need to vote on them, but I want to make at least the conclusion that there is a problem and that it needs to be solved in BiH, that the name BiH is not being abused, that three persons, a BiH citizen, do so daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5198	Beriz Belkić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5199	I didn't notice that the situation was particularly tense and that it should be relaxed. So we've simply expressed our views and opinions, that's one thing, and, second thing, we're absolutely interested, I'm interested in solving the problem. And it is true that there are abuses, but abuses of any law and this law must be dealt with effectively and rationally, i.e. by persistent law enforcement. So there's the problem, there's the problem. So there's no law enforcement control. And if we're going to run every time some law people play, which, of course, will always be one number of people trying to work, every time we run into a change of laws, we go on forever. And I fully agree and accept that there is an abuse of this law, and I have seen it with my own eyes and other ways, not just the one you're talking about, but simply when I was talking about the amendments that were proposed, I simply pointed out that they limit human rights guaranteed by international conventions. That's what it was about. And we're absolutely in the mood, or I'm in the mood to talk about problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5200	Drago Kalabić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5201	Here I am, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I call on Mr. Živković not to give up the amendment, because they really make sense and that they are at least trying to solve this problem, which we all agree is definitely there. The purpose of my replica is to disagree, because here they are trying to replace the thesis: no association or activity in the entire BiH area is prevented, this is what Mr. Džaferović was talking about, and in part Mr. Belkić is also trying to prevent anyone from joining anyone in this way of working from misusing the name of BiH. So they're not endangering the rights of these people to deal with the essence of what their foundation or association was founded for. So the association from any canton or any municipality can act uninterruptedly in the entire BiH area under the name it is. I'm not sure that anyone's been prevented from anything, but it's automatically entitled and it automatically belongs to the name, no matter how it is created, I think it's creating a problem and it has nothing to do with the exercise of the right to act, the operation of that association. I don't think that's good and this is going in a completely 25 wrong direction. Can, I don't know, the Association of War Veterans from the RS be the Association of War Veterans of BiH and represent in the world at all events, I don't know either, I'm taking an example, can it speak for everyone and that it stands. I don't think we should break this over our knees, that this is a sensitive issue and that the solution is hidden through Mr. Živković's amendments. But I cannot accept the tendency to prevent anyone in BiH from acting by not giving him the name he wants. The name can be both this and that, I'm not sure, is important, of course, but I'm not sure where the essence of the activity determines the name. I think even if he doesn't get that name, he's prevented from acting. I don't think that... the thesis can survive.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5202	Beriz Belkić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5203	Here I am, in the shortest, therefore, not about the abuse of the name BiH, but about one practice, about one present policy that does not support practically and does not allow, in any way, the organisation of anything at BiH level, or even NGOs.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5204	Dušanka Majkić also reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5205	Well, I'd like to say that I know for sure that this state of indetermination has been being misused for years. It is not just a question of abuse of the name BiH in a way that someone gets their hands on the name so that it is the meaning which speaks in favor of the organisation, the association that is represented throughout the BiH area. This is much more of an image creation in the local public, but especially in the international community, from which these organisations receive funds. So, NGOs have taken big money since the war, so here we go. And the largest number is in that very name that they perform on behalf of BiH, so in both parts of it, they came in a position to take that big money. So one of the colleagues asked the question – how many NGOs there are. You will see what the answer will be, we will have very few registered organisations in the Federation, we will have a significant number in the RS, and a large number in BiH, because anyone who says it appears on behalf of the BiH state is willing to collect all the funds that are relevant to both its entities. And it's not correct and it doesn't reflect the condition. So, out of goodwill and the idea of three people forming an NGO, it depends on how much money he will take from international donors who are still in that naive picture, and hopefully that picture is increasingly correct, they think it's a moaning or an organisation that applies to the entire BiH area. So no one's narrowing down anyone's interest. A colleague, Živković, may have been overly numbered in what way to do so. But I think the Ministry of Justice should certainly be involved in that and see how we can overcome it. Perhaps the amendments themselves can be accused of getting in the way of human rights issues, but that the issue of representation by both entities, when it comes to registering NGOs and associations and foundations, must certainly be launched, and this would be the primary task of the Justice Ministry to consider that two people from the 26 Federations who establish an institution bearing the name BiH cannot predicate to be an institution representing the whole of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5206	In order not to be misunderstood, I will eventually, when this list of replicas is exhausted, say a little bit and remind us all of these business provisions when and on what occasions the replicas should be used. And the next one came from Mr. Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5207	...a microphone around here somewhere. Mirso, will you help me? I'm sorry, this might be easier for me. You'll realize I'm not getting up. I worked before the war to create a large number of associations, and after the war, too, many know me by it. This is about a definition of where we need legislators to help some linguists. Although at first glance it doesn't look simple, it's very complicated. Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and my fellow Members of Parliament, who appear most, let me tell you one thing. The association system and the organisation system are two completely different concepts and with completely two different forms that the legislator has overlooked. It is not the same when fishermen, beekeepers and athletes join together and create their own association, and when an organisational system is created, it is more serious and much more quality work is required and much more control is required. Older people like me, there are still plenty of them here, remember the former Republic of BiH, I'm talking about the one before the war, so I don't mean the Republic of BiH, but the Socialist Republic of BiH, which was based on the laws of the SFRY, then there was a system that had a very good influence on everything that's holding us back today. The state has decreed by its law that there are organisations of particular interest for the BiH state. It was abolished after the war. And this has brought us a huge flood of an association that we no longer know who they are, or what they are, or who they are behind them, or who they account for their work. When we think logically, please understand, three people sit in a pub and create an association and the entire infrastructure of the legislative and executive authorities must be subordinated to their interests. I'm telling you this seriously, I know it very well from experience. They can create associations as they please and wherever they want, only one man can create a foundation. It's the invention of the Western world, we've accepted it ad hoc, and we have no idea what it's about. The foundation is a very serious thing in every serious state. I'm not going to say that this country is insecure, that's what some others say. But I ask that the legislator who is trying to solve these problems, I see, I thank Mr. Vice-President who has launched one amendment, he thinks he will do well with it. No, I don't. It's just part of the disease that needs to be removed. This country is too poor for this number of associations that just grab money, and we don't know who they're taking it from. This is what I'm seriously drawing your attention to, that if we really want to solve it, let's do it the right way, because we're the state's top. Associations and foundations under this now existing law must cease to abuse naive citizens. Believe me, I'm telling you honestly as a man, and I ask you to pay attention to this. And yet, here I am starting the initiative, think about, let these legal experts think, let us at least shape what our country really needs, regardless of which entity, to return some of the law that creates.... 27
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5208	Comrade Bašić, I apologize, just to draw attention to the time foreseen for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5209	Well, I'm sorry, I can't watch the clock, so you guys watch.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5210	Yeah, yeah, I get it. I thank my colleague Bašić. The replica was also reported by Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5211	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, briefly, the replica of Mr. Živković's exposure and Mr. Kalabić's exposure. I would ask them, like all of us here, to distinguish two concepts. The law on the use of the name BiH, and we had a law on day-to-day work on it, and the Law on... associations and foundations, I'm afraid those two things didn't go wrong now when it comes to this second law. Because it is possible to have an association and a foundation that will act at the level of the entire state because it is registered with the BiH Ministry of Justice and that there is no name and name in its name, therefore the essence. This is what you were talking about, the issue of using the name BiH, and that is a special issue. This is about human freedom and rights, and I pray that this is understood this way. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5212	Now we're going to move to discussions within this agenda point, but let me just say one thing. I would really like to invite all colleagues and colleagues to pay attention to the business provisions that speak about the correction of quotes. First of all, a member of the 70s who speaks when and under what circumstances should seek correction of the quote. The word came from Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5213	Dear Chairman, fellow chairman, MPs, MPs, I warmly welcome you all. Since my colleague Živković withdrew his amendments, I will in many ways shorten the discussion, I will just say that I wanted to say a few words about the inapplicability of the proposed amendments that we talked about on the Constitutional Commission and I will say only one simple example of that inapplicability. So, if we take the example that ten people, for example, work from Banja Luka, who are butterfly fans, want to build an association and want to make it at BiH level. Why? Well, because there's a possibility, in which they're convinced, that butterflies cross the entity line and there's also a suspicion that there are people in the Federation who love the same things as they do. At the very beginning, they face two problems. The first problem is, according to these amendments, 28 needs to be a hundred to make one such association, and they're 10. Where to find 90 more people, and why forbid them to have such an association? Even if they find these tables, compared to these amendments, 70 should be from the Federation and 30 from the RS. There are only 10 of them, I repeat, and people are from Banja Luka who know each other. So, I fully support the second part of my colleague Živković's discussion and I will support him in all efforts to make things he spoke of as problematic in this area of IC. However, I think it is good that he withdrew these amendments because they may indeed be in the best interest, I do not want to doubt that, firstly, they are inconclusive, and secondly that they are in collapsing with part of the reasoning of the amendments themselves where they are said to be voluntary and basically non-profit association. However, by adopting such amendments (I say again that it is good that they are withdrawn) we would block what Mr. Živković says in his explanation, which is a free and voluntary association.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5214	Mr. Drago Kalabić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5215	I'll try for a moment, Mr. Chairman, no matter what we're in a new situation, but this is not an issue that matters, and I think we need to resolve it correctly. Here is exactly what colleagues of Magazinović have been talking about and in the replica Mr. Džaferović is something that they cannot agree on and which provides space, i.e. provides enough arguments that we need to regulate this thing in one different way after all. A kolega Magazinović, butterflies from Banja Luka not only cross the entity line, they cross the state line with Croatia, the butterfly goes that way. Does this mean that an automatic butterfly association can also create a foundation that will be BiH or RS and Croatia? Well, he can't, no matter what someone likes butterflies in Slavonia, it's not enough, it's not enough for that. What you're proposing, and Mr. Džaferović in particular, is anarchy. I find philosophers and anarchists very interesting people like this when you look at their ideas. Because if we're already claiming that we're jeopardizing human rights and freedoms, then why the law? Why the law in the first place, why do we even restrict people to some rules? Let them do whatever they want and whatever they want. Why are you closing the foundation and association of citizens in the BiH Tower? Why can't they work on the whole of Europe? Why can't I register an organization? I want to be for all of Europe. No, he can't. The RS or Hungary butterfly association could probably not be registered even though it makes sense. But the key question, which Mr. Magazinović bypassed, is whether they organize themselves for love of butterflies or whether they want to abuse the name of the association. If they have love for butterflies, they'll have enough and where they'll have a nicer name than the Association of Lovers of the Republic of Slovenia. Their love will not be increased by looking for BiH as well. He won't, so he won't. ... And if they find butterfly fans, although these Federation fans are flying over to another side, I'm not sure they're going towards the entity, I think they're going down towards Makarska, according to Dalmatia, now it's tourist season down there, if they find common ground, then they can make an association. But if they don't, I don't see the needs. That's why I'm talking about the essence today, both abuse and essence. One association can work and I don't think there's a specific in his name. Yes, Mr. Džaferović said that these two things should be separated, but at the same time we cannot accept that the association can be formed without any 29 restrictions, because we are all here consensual, very correctly spoke Mr. Bašić with the problems in practice that arises. And that's what this is about. So we can't accept that for everyone in this country there must be rules, so there must be... a tendency to abuse the non-governmental sector continues in today's discussions. Some political parties, of course, used NGOs under the company of NGOs, as they are NGOs, we all know that well. And then, now they're scramblingly struggling to continue to leave their incomparable status. It's some deities, some totems. Don't, let them do whatever they want and whatever they want. Oh, he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5216	Comrade Kalabić, time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5217	... I'm finishing up, there have to be rules. There are rules in Western European countries, even though they are like cradles and democracies and rights. You can't make a foundation in France exactly the way it's proposed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5218	Thank you. I hope that after this discussion of butterflies that we will return to the Law of Associations and Foundations. It's a second reading. The replica was reported by Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5219	Well, first of all, one cop intervention. Speaking of butterflies, as counterpart Kalabić says, let them mention butterflies, too, so. Secondly, when he's already talking about associations to only mention that butterflies or butterflies are cosmopolitan...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5220	A colleague of Živković was talking about the relaxation of the atmosphere, but we're a little too relaxed. Mr. Borislav Bojić is reporting for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5221	I hope that fellow Živković will remain with the amendments and I believe that his discussion is extremely correct and that it goes in terms of finding a solution, an objective solution. Of course, when it comes to butterflies and butterflies, butterflies and the like, I suggest a butterfly because it's a compromise solution, so when it's already in this one. So it's my opinion that there are no NGOs or if there are in small numbers. There are mostly government organizations. It's a question that the NGO's government is funding. So it's a very small number, objectively speaking, of NGOs, which is something that 30 I believe we'll all agree on, is just a question at what level, is it? When it comes to these routes from Banja Luka, some are heading towards Belgrade, some if they were moving birds they would be heading south. But there are world organizations that have their own rules defined when it comes to NGOs, no matter how you register them. You can become a member of the world association if you meet certain conditions prescribed by this world organization. Some of them were spoken of by counterpart Kalabić. But I think that the amendments that my colleague Živković has proposed are indeed something that is in the way of solving this problem, to address this problem. There are, of course, certain kinds of adjustments that I wouldn't even make, but as a compromise, it's possible to make. And I suggest, colleague Živković, if you can stay with these amendments, because they are on the verge of solving the problem, so we simply don't attach these positions to NGOs. It's hard for us to determine, some here have said how many NGOs there really are. They repeat once again, very little, almost insignificant, and behind each of them is one of the governments. It's only a matter of which government it is. After all, I'm this very short. Once again, I call on you, my colleague Živković, so given the quality of the proposed amendments, we can discuss the text of an explanation in which there may be an unskilled statement, but the content itself, in my opinion, is acceptable, so that I wouldn't be too long on the very text of an explanation which, in terms of a sentence, is defined in one way or another, that I don't go back to the beginning of this story that we have entered into a little relaxed – I suggest you stay with the amendments and as far as I'm concerned you will have the support. Thank you very much, I hope the SDS Club too.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5222	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've come to the floor because I think the amendments that Mr. Živković suggested are very good and in practical terms in their application would be much easier. They're in the RS, here I come from the Employers' Association, so three people come together and they're an employers' association. And when the government is supposed to talk about a collective contract, then they all come to one another and say 'I am a registered Association of Employers at the RS level', and even when it gets prefixed that it is from BiH then it is placed as a capo above others. For these reasons, it might be good for the Ministry of Justice to try to find a solution to identify the representativeness of organisations and associations of importance. Because everyone takes it as a right, and it's a practical abuse of name. Three people come and register as an organisation at both BiH and international level and according to domestic institutions in such a way are represented, and objectively they have no influence because they have nothing to do with any of the contacts they represent without talking about entities. For these reasons, it might be good for a little bit sharper criteria. It is not enough that three people will create an organisation in which they will have before they are an organisation, an association of BiH, because they, no matter how you issue a solution, know that they are abusers – we are at the level of BiH – and that they have no connection nor... in the local community they have no authority. For these reasons, perhaps through the Ministry of Justice it should be resolved to identify and question the representative nature of those organisations that are of importance. Something similar was done in the RS and then other organizations can be formed in other ways. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5224	The first deputy chairman Milorad Živković appears for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5225	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, my call to a relaxed discussion about this was to see if there was any desire here in this home to go into solving the obvious problem. In addition to the declarative support of some MPs for this idea of mine, I have not seen any concrete proposals. I have not seen the proposal say that if the name BiH is abused, it is treated with one law to ban the ministry of justice from registering at all an association that will prefix BiH on its own behalf. Or to be taken away from them now so that they would not represent BiH, or abuse BiH's name in seeking money from international institutions, NGOs, governments etc., etc. Come on, if that's the solution, I'll support that solution. But let you say it's one of the solutions. The problem and the country's fate is not only agreeing that the legal association is formed at BiH level but that it has no legitimacy. The problem of legitimacy is BiH's fate. Let's see how these associations give us legitimacy. And it was my wish for these amendments. It is irrelevant whether these amendments will be put to the vote today or not. What's that gonna mean? That there was no will in this home to go to a compromise solution. If the Ministry of Justice can do so within seven days based on these amendments, based on this discussion that we had here, that some compromise amendment, I am absolutely in agreement with that. If there is a will in this home to go in that direction, it is quite irrelevant how these amendments are written. They wanted to give these associations legitimacy, except for their legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5226	Since there are no more registered debaters within the eighth item of the agenda, I am closing this item of the agenda. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the forced collection of indirect taxes, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-10/11, of 24. 5. 2011 (second reading) At the 3rd session of the House, held on 22. Six. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report 8. Seven. 2011 32 I am opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Do any of the MPs report for discussion? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Other Refunds in BiH-level Judicial and Prosecutorial Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No: 01,02-02-1-3/11, of 31. 3. 2011 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5230	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would not stand up to say that this is not a negative opinion and that we did not just write that members of the Constitutional Commission at Parliament's session would say what they were doing... when they did not support the principles of this law. 33 Behold, you have two groups of MPs who, from different motives, have not fully supported the principles of this law. I belong to those who did not support the principles of this law because I believe that the issue of holidays in BiH, both state and religious, should be regulated by one law in BiH, because that is the only way we will be able to be consistent when it comes to existing laws and existing practices that we have in BiH. So far, there have been several attempts to pass a law on national holidays and holidays in BiH at all. These attempts have not been made here in Parliament, so attempts to fully edit this matter. And then there was an attempt to partially edit matter. If you remember that law that predicted only New Year's Eve and May 1st and May 9th as holidays, and nothing specific for BiH predicted as holidays, and then we said that this requires a complete arrangement. This time it also goes with a partial solution that doesn't even talk about the holidays in the title, but talks in the days that aren't working, so that's his theme, during the religious holidays in BiH. And I know that BiH will need to settle this issue, but I think it is dangerous, from the point of view of the continuity of the rules that have been in force since earlier and the holidays that the BiH state today has and that we treat differently in BiH, that we are regulating this issue partially. That's why I think it is necessary for BiH to access the serious business of making holiday laws that will regulate the issue of both national holidays and religious holidays and thus end this matter. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5231	Thank you. The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5232	In this law, therefore, I am one of the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission who has singled out his opinion, and accordingly, in accordance with the obligation of the Commission, I will say why it was done. So, there's more to it than that. First of all, the name of this law itself is questionable. So, "The Unworked Days Act at the time of BiH's religious holidays." BiH is not a religious state to have its religious holidays. BiH is secular, and I don't think it's a technical mistake, since it's been pointed out on several occasions, and it hasn't experienced a change, but this law, and if it's supposed to be adopted, and I don't think it should be adopted in this way, should be called 'The Unworkable Days Act at the Time of Religious Holidays in BiH', not the religious holidays of BiH. For some of the MPs I've been talking to, the parties and the holidays themselves are prescribed by this law, but I don't want to get into that part. First of all, because, as our proposer has explained, it is in line with those who have the right to say which are the most significant holidays. Here I also asked the question: what about those who do not celebrate religious holidays, the four largest religious groups in BiH? And Mr. Božo Ljubić, if I'm not mistaken, has asked a very principled question at the session of the Constitutional Commission: what about what he said, unbeliefing? Here, I say, what about atheists, drawing attention that this law does not put all BiH citizens in the same position. He doesn't give them equal rights. 34 And finally, not wanting to repeat myself much with a colleague, with his predecessor, Šefik Džaferović, the essence of the discussion, among other things, at a session of the Constitutional Law Commission was related to the BiH holiday law. There is a legitimate concern that someone wants to make this law, in a certain way, to substitute the missing law, i.e. to create a vacuum... when it comes to the holiday law, so that on the scene we have the only law adopted by the BiH Parliament in this assembly, or after '96, that it is'religious holiday law'. The SDP Club's position is that we are not against resolving this issue, especially if it stems from the international obligations and international agreements that BiH has signed, and among other things the Treaty with svet stolica says that we are obliged to adopt this law, but that contract does not say in any way how it should be done, that it should be as proposed. With this proposed text of the law, we cannot agree. We feel that we should all concentrate together on the adoption of the holiday law and see no problem for some members of this law to be members of the new holiday law. Or, if we choose to have two separate laws, for us the absolute priority is the BiH holiday law, and then the resolution of this issue, but in a way that all BiH citizens have equal rights and that none of them are disproved in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5233	Drago Kalabić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5234	I have to react to two findings of my colleague Magazinović. Maybe, if that's what he thought, but, or if I heard it right. It is true in a political sense that this is not a religious state, but neither is the faithless state. In this country, there are a huge number of people who believe, a huge number. I think it must be respected and respected. So, on the other hand, not entering into the very essence of this law that we can dispute about, that part of the faithful people, members, are seeking their rights, not jeopardizing at all the rights of others who will seek their rights in various other fields. I don't think atheists are going to be threatened by someone glorifying, a believer celebrating his holiday, a religious holiday. I think those two things should be separated because it's BiH, it's what it is. And I don't think that if we make and agree on religious holidays that this will endanger the rights of atheists because I think that their rights should be respected in other ways that they are looking for, and that their demand should not endanger the rights of the believers. But it is not good to mix it up even in some way to send a message that they want to or possibly threaten the rights of the believers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5235	Aleksandra Pandurević called to say the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5236	Well, I was one of the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission who, as Mr. Džaferović notes, each of his motives was against this law. I really think... that in this country we should exist and I hope we have so many common touch points that we can find some dates that we all share. But I think it should be done by the competent ministry in coordination with 35 entities and then we won't have any problems here, as we have no problems with many other laws that agree. Why do I find this law unacceptable? First, this law is put forward by order in relation to the entity laws and the Brcko District law. According to Article III. Constitution of BiH and amandman 41 to Article 3. The RS constitution clearly shows that it is an entity's area of competence and at BiH level it is only possible to regulate it in accordance with Article III. Item 5(a) of the Constitution of BiH. I must say, God Bog this law came to me from some Bosniak minister, I would accuse him of trying to leave the RS with this law without the Republic Day, it's January 9th, according to the RS holiday law. Namely, this law lists the ninth of January as a religious holiday, the Holy Prophet and the Archdeacon Stefan. By such a regulation, and since entities commit to comply with their laws, they would then come into a position that other BiH citizens are denied the right to have their Republic day and the believers of Islamic religion, Catholic and others, so that I believe and so I suggest that there are really little more serious approaches to solving this problem, that the competent ministry in coordination with entities find some common dates, agree, and then come to us with a concrete proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5237	Thank you. The replica was reported by Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5238	Here, I will replicate the part of my colleague Pandurević's discussion of the state's competences in reminding that the BiH state signed an agreement with the Vatican and with the Serbian Orthodox Church and part of its obligations, therefore, exclusively as a obliged international agreement, part of those obligations under the agreements also relate to the matter regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5239	The Republic is owned by Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5240	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, my replica refers to the discussion of distinguished colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. You see, it can be manipulated differently with these questions. You can always say one for or one against. But I want to say here a proposal: I therefore voted in favour of the constitutional basis and the principles of the law. What's the reason? The reason is perfectly clear. These are BiH's international obligations under the agreement, a ratified agreement in this parliament where SDS MPs absolutely voted with the BiH Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church as well as for an Agreement with the svet stolica. That's one question. The second reason for this is therefore the position of the Inter-Religious Council in BiH. The third reason is the view of all religious communities on this issue that members of all key religious communities in BiH are entitled to equal number of... unworkable days during religious holidays. So this applies to both the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Islamic Religious Community and the Jewish community, except for the Catholic Church, which this principle is clearly stated in the Agreement with the Vatican, that is, the direct jurisdiction of the international commitment of BiH. 36 Also, when it comes to this, it should not be forgotten that members of the Serb people, therefore Orthodox religion, will be entitled to equal religious days both in the Federation of BiH and in the RS. Another issue relating to the Republic Day in RS, which is absolutely... cannot be governed by the law on unworkable days at the time of BiH's religious holidays by the law on holidays in the entity. Furthermore, Article 5 needs to be clearly read that it gives opportunity, I must say, the Day of the Republic is a state holiday in the entity of the RS. So, a working day as a holiday, but it should not be forgotten that it is also a religious holiday for members of the Orthodox religion in BiH. And Article 5 allows these specificities to be defined otherwise by entities and Brcko District. So if we want to talk to the media now, we can say it any way we can. We can say we're against religious holidays, here's each other's stuff. We can say this, but we must respect that in BiH, the way some decisions are made involves this constitutional basis, which says what I said earlier. And just because I have only 10 seconds left, I will say that Minister Sredone Nović worked absolutely in line with his legal powers and position of the minister who did this and not against anyone, nor from the RS, nor from BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5241	Aleksandra Pandurević called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not really argue that basic contracts concluded with the svet stolica and the Serbian Orthodox Church need to be implemented, but the agreements BiH has concluded are also required to implement their entities, so that this problem can be resolved by adopting these dates in the existing entity laws. So, this can be resolved, if we want, I have no objection, that we adopt here, Mr. Prodanović, the law that has been mentioned, but the procedure must be implemented: the National Assembly of the RS, Parliament of the Federation, Parliament of the Brcko District must say that these laws are acceptable, transfer jurisdiction to the level of BiH and we finely confirm here. Mr. Prodanović, I don't speak for the media here. I bring out what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's position is. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was delivered to us here to the MPs of the RS, reads: 'We believe that there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of the law in question in this content, nor is there a legal basis for the same obligation of the entity and the Brcko District to comply with this law'. So, Mr. Prodanović, I ask you to resolve this issue within your party and in coordination with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because there is obviously some disagreement between you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5243	The replica was answered by Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5244	I don't know, colleague Pandurević, if I understood you well. So this Parliament, by you, couldn't adopt anything before it got either consent or... 37
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5245	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5246	I realized to you that we must see what the parliaments of entities, Brcko etc. say. Well, that's not it, is it? Let me get this straight, please. This is the home of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5247	Lazar Prodanović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5248	I must tell you immediately that Minister Nović has expressed these views. So I didn't say that last too that there was absolute consent from the RS government to this issue. Secondly, we are discussing the principles of law, don't forget, the principles of law. If we applied your approach, we would never pass any laws. If the principle, I must also immediately tell you that every international contract is consummated by a state or any entity law. If you don't think so, then we can be wrong, then we're rattling out, so we voted on it. So, in this case I have to say that it is not about jurisdiction, it is about basic human rights of members of different religious communities in BiH and your story about that the Republic Day will be derivated by this law has absolutely no legal basis. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5249	Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5250	Bog forbid, I didn't even think to say that this Parliament has no jurisdiction. On the contrary, his jurisdiction lies in the Dayton Constitution and we do nothing, all that is in Article III. Item 1 finds... where the jurisdiction of the entity is I don't mind. There are agencies that have been formed, which are not according to Dejton and the laws that are passed here, which are not according to the Dayton jurisdiction of BiH, but which work well. But it's necessary, I just want to continue to establish one principle that will relax the situation. I really think we should and that in this country we must have a minimum of mutual hearing and some common touch points and that we need this law. But if we adopt this law under this name, I truly believe the MPs of the SDS would vote in the National Assembly for these dates, except they wouldn't vote for svet Stefan to be a religious holiday, because he's a holiday of the Republic. January 9th is a holiday of the Republic, not under that name. Mr. Prodanović, so that's not at all questionable. All that is in Article III. The position of BiH's 1st jurisdiction and even what we think will be good for all of us, that maybe it should be transferred here, and that's what we're for. What we might have passed on and it's not working, so why don't we get back to the entities. So there's no misunderstanding, Mr. Belkić. 38 Mr. Prodanović, please explain to me, Article 5 requires entities to comply with their laws. And then on January 9th, we'll have a religious holiday and a holiday of the Republic, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5251	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5252	So we're right. We'll have him in two places. Is that papaziania a little bit, Mr. Prodanović? And I'm really telling you again, Mr. Prodanović, that's what I'm talking about. It's not like I need to, besides the SNSD MPs who have the government, I need to defend the RS government's views here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5253	The replica has Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5254	First, fellow Pandurević, you said there was no respect for the procedure here, and then you said they weren't consulted entities, Brack District, etc. and counterpart Belkić only warned you about the procedure for adopting state laws. And secondly, here's one finding, I thought, as I read in the paper, and that's just "Independent," that SNSD and SDS have some agreement on joint action at the state level.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5255	kolega Prodanović, you've already had two replicas. I'm really sorry. The Republic has Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5256	Well, you see, dear colleagues, when it comes to the agreement or misunderstandings of the SNSD and the SDS, it will be the subject of our political parties' debate, don't worry about it. So we will agree on key issues that are of interest to the RS and the Serbian people. And we're democratic parties. A little SNSD is a democratic party, you know. He'll come to the SDS level, but we also have our own kind of approach. We're far more democratic than you think. So, we showed it anyway, Mr. Džaferović, don't be surprised, when it comes to SDS, we really showed the width when it comes to our democracy. However, when it comes to this legislation itself, it is truly clumsyly defined this Article 5 or misdefined, and there should be a certain type of intervention in terms of the mandate of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in terms of the order that the RS entity or anyone else in its law is obliged to do as the Parliamentary Assembly says. The entity's jurisdiction is to pass holiday laws, and that jurisdiction has no right to take them away. This should probably be defined differently, so we'll probably understand each other better. 39 And as for our covenants, don’t worry, we understood very well. And where we don't understand each other, I have to tell you that I've said a lot about the work of the SNSD, but leave it to us in the RS. When it comes to the issue of ours, first of all, comes here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we know exactly what we want. We want first and foremost the position of the RS in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that is the essence of the agreement between us from the SDS and the SNSD. There's no need for me to explain the other components to you, because you know it better than I do, because you read it regularly, as I do, of course, _______________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5257	The gentleman has a word and don't leave the scene.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5258	As I, of course, read far more carefully and more precisely many other agreements that appear here in the premises of BiH and another entity. We certainly pay far more attention to these agreements, but this agreement of ours is, I assure you, very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5259	Replica, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5260	Thank you. In fact, it's not as strong in democracy as we say we are democratic but as much as we get confirmation from the electoral body in the elections about how democratic we are. And in continuity, unfortunately some parties, the SNSD gets more and more confirmation every time. However, the problem of religious holidays or unworkable days: religious holidays are here in institutions, joint BiH institutions a major problem. You know, people here in the offices are looking across the street because someone's going and others aren't going to those religious holidays or working days. We need to find a solution to that, whether it's the law or we need to talk about it. Sometimes people make mistakes when they talk about constitutional ground, not thinking about the general need to do it. At the same time, Mr. Magazinović is not there, but here is the chairman in front of the same party, so I'll say that when you don't have principled views, then you're in big trouble and then you're trying to accuse someone else or you're honoring him that the only reason to support this law, or the one that came from the Council of Ministers, was the law on the holidays of BiH, just so that the one who is currently on the side of your interpretation. However, there is a problem in the principle of accepting that there are laws before that. Like the Law on the ban on carrying a ware, so these women don't get arrested here in BiH. Because one law, you know, I'll accept that it's being implemented because it suits me, and another law that's based on the same law on force or should be in force: it's not going to be implemented. So if SDP colleagues want to honor that we want to replace any law here to put this one aside, they have to say why they're not principled in their views and for the other laws. 40 thank you. The discussion was reported by the chairman, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5262	Thank you. So, I would first remind you that on the agenda we are discussing the draft law on working days at religious holidays in BiH and on the agenda is not a discussion of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution of BiH, it is not on the agenda to discuss constitutional arrangements, etc. If we're going to discuss this, then we're going to have a special thematic session on the subject. I, unlike some other colleagues, have no illusions that someone from some party at this session today will convince someone from another party to change the attitudes they have on certain matters when it comes to this issue. This is obviously a sensitive question, and it is clear to all of us that the answer to this question will not be reached until we have a serious conversation about this and then a serious proposal for a law like this. As far as SDP MPs are concerned, I can clearly confirm that these views were consistent until the end consistent, consistent and principled. And with those attitudes, we're still performing at this House of Representatives session. I must say that we should not go into such discussions and even question what constitutional provisions are in this country. The BiH Constitution very clearly guarantees the equality of all citizens and peoples. The international conventions are also an integral part of this Constitution. And what we're talking about today, that's for the sake of people to say, that adopting or not adopting this law will not absolutely compromise the rights of any man in this country, especially those who believe. They will still have the opportunity to fully enjoy all their rights in accordance with the Constitution of this country and the marking of religious holidays will, of course, continue if this law does not pass. And today is not a debate on what rights are atheists, theist, agnostics, etc. So today is one proposal that has not been fully agreed on by all the members of the Council of Ministers and here he comes to the House. I want to say my personal opinion that this country needs a holiday law. Under the holiday law, this issue should also be regulated. I think BiH needs a holiday law that will respect BiH's statehood, a holiday law that will respect BiH's I. Constitution. In the previous four years, in the last term, we had two proposals for the holiday law. One, the proposal for a law on Council of Ministers' holidays and another proposal which I, on behalf of the SDP Club, have submitted. Although this second proposal has received more votes, neither proposal has received the necessary majority, but I believe that the discussion on this topic should take place, above all, because I believe it is an unsustainable practice that the BiH state still has no state holiday law. And when we talk about holidays in BiH, we should never interfere with the fact that according to the Constitution of BiH, according to both the Constitution and the other entity, it is very clear that both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak are fully equal. Under these constitutional provisions, such state law and such entity laws should be made so that every citizen of the RS and the Federation, and this country as a whole, feels completely equal and has holidays that it wants to mark. Unfortunately, this is not the practice at the moment. In addition to a whole series of other objections to this law, I must say that there have been errors even in the reasons for the adoption of this law, that is, in the light of these reasons. So there are some provisions such as the second point of the argument: 'At the level of the Federation of BiH... no holiday law has been passed, but it is in force to take over the SFRJ holiday law.' I would call on the Council of Ministers that when they make these reasons for law-making, at least, to respect some of the basic facts that they are. Thank you. The replica was reported by Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5263	So I absolutely agree in one part where you say it is necessary to implement certain international agreements, etc. We don't mind that. Therefore, the essence of Article 5 is in which the Parliamentary Assembly obliges entities which, according to us, can become a practice in other laws. Otherwise, mixing these two levels of government, so they can't, and entities can't determine obligations for local communities either. Of course, they can pass laws that will apply in that space. This kind of practice is unacceptable. The more you explained and the more you discussed, the more I am convinced that this is not good. Therefore, it might be better if you had discussed less, I would probably be far more convincing that this solution was made in accordance with the needs of the RS. I remind you once again that there is a Secretariat for legislation in the RS, at least I know that, and I know that it performs affairs and provides the harmonisation of laws and regulations and general acts with the Constitution and the legal system. And in that sekretarijat, I was told that this law is not something that is the subject of adoption at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, I think it is possible to pass this law, and some additional efforts should be made in terms of coordination, compliance with entities that have their rights, especially when it comes to the right to adopt this law. The solutions themselves are not something that is controversial for us. For us, Article 5 is controversial. – the obligation of entities and Brcko District to comply with this law. So it's something that can become a practice with other laws. That's a problem for us. This transformation would satisfy us and we could, therefore, accept the other part of the content. Here is the key problem when it comes to our request. I think we understand each other now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5264	The Republic has the chairman, honourable MP Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5265	I want to remind you of what I said at the beginning of my presentation, which is that I really have no illusion that I will convince anyone to change their mind at this session on this matter. But once again, I want there to be no dilemma, repeat what my essential message is. And that is that this law is not an adequate law, that BiH needs state law. Another essential message is that both in the Federation of BiH and in the RS, so it is very clear in entities that both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak are fully equal. I just want to say on the basis of this constitutional provision that such solutions should be made, and when it comes to holidays, that both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat can be recognized in both entities when it comes to holidays. You, fellow Bojić, know very well what holidays are in the entity from which you come and it is quite clear to you that, according to 42 of this entity law, there is not one holiday in which the other two constituent nations can be identified. If there is, I ask you to say what holiday it is, but it is clear to you that this law is not supported by all peoples. And my core message, therefore, is not to spread too much discussion, is that we should also have state law, that entity laws should be in line with the law of the BiH state and that all peoples feel completely equal. The replica was reported by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5266	Mr. Bojić, I really don't understand what you're drawing an argument from when you're talking about that in the law passed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there is no obligation to lower levels of government to comply with their laws on the area. I mean, it's so normal. Look, the whole system works on it. That's the spirit, so if you want the letter of the BiH Constitution. And I'll just, mass is the provisions that talk about it, but let's just say I'll read you just one provision concerning the jurisdiction of the BiH Constitutional Court that he is in charge of any matter whether any provision of the Constitution or the law of an entity is in accordance with this Constitution. So there is no legal system for BiH unless there is a norm that will oblige lower levels to comply with its regulations under the BiH regulation. And if you're pushing for it to be gone, then you're saying there's no legal system in BiH, then you're pushing for something that I don't know how a man can define it and where it can all go together. I advise you to hold on a second, we've been working since Dayton, for what, 16-17 years, so let it go. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5267	Replica, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica is on your exhibition, or on your replica. In RS, there is a Law on the holidays of the RS by dividing it. The holidays in the RS are celebrated: New Year's Eve of the Republic, International Day of Work, Day of Victory over Fascism, Day of Resurrection, Day of the establishment of the General Collective Treaty. Holidays, not to read, have one day if they're Sunday. Holidays in RS as religious holidays are: Orthodox Christmas, Catholic Christmas, Kurban-Bajram, Orthodox Great Friday, Orthodox Easter, Catholic Big Friday, Catholic Easter and Ramadan Bayram. This was also the issue of violation of the vital national interest of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court estimated that there were no injuries to the vital national interest, which means that there is a law in the RS that defines the days of unemployment and those of interest for the Republic and those who are religious. And if you'll let me just say a few more words. I think if this law is passed, I agree with this Article 5 that needs to be defined. We cannot impose on others to comply with the law if it is constitutional, entity law in relation to the law that we bring here, if it is a constitutional category at RS level. And if there is an adoption, then it should react in such a way that Saint Stefan is a religious holiday, and the Day of the Republic, the day of the citizens of the Republic of BiH and all those living in it, the RS, I apologize. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5269	Thank you. Replica has the first deputy chairman, Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5270	I don't know if it's a replica or a business initiative, but it would be very practical and pragmatic that when MPs discuss whether this law can be adopted in the first reading and whether it can be corrected with amendments, because then we'll know what the fate of the law is and whether we can go on at all. So, the SNSD's position is that the law can be amended and adopted in a way that is acceptable for both RS and Federation MPs and everyone in BiH. Come on, please, in addition to making objections and objections, tell me if it's possible with amendments to that law to fix that we know clearly how we can do it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5271	Mato Franjičević answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5272	Well, I have a slight impression that there's too much depression in this debate about this law, which may have been due to matter expected, but I want to say the following. Since I was one of those who supported the principles of this law in the Constitutional Commission, it is the law in the first reading, I want to say that I did it because I think it is necessary to regulate this matter in this way. I hope it's not a questionable fact... that religious holidays simply exist. This law does not define religious holidays. This law accepts this fact of the existence of religious holidays and defines our relationship with those facts in a way that predicts certain religious holidays to be unworkable for members of certain religious or religious communities. I must say, I find it totally unacceptable to make an argument that is drawn when it comes to this law, against it, in a way that the arguments are drawn completely outside the law itself or completely outside this matter itself. It's a pure obstruction, namely, to condition this law, to adopt this law, and I repeat once again, religious holidays are facts and they exist. By accepting or adopting another law, it's totally unacceptable, and I don't know where that principle will take us if it's fully installed and there's enough space for it to develop. The second thing why I was at the session of the Constitutional Commission for the Principles of this law lies in the fact that this law is partly the result or need for its adoption, as part of certain international agreements, of international agreements signed by BiH. My colleagues have already been instructed here, mentioning an agreement with the Holy Table and an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church. Since these international agreements really exist and are designed to adopt or regulate this matter legally, I think it is necessary to adopt one of these laws. I think that by failing to adopt the laws and from this optics, therefore, from the optics of these international agreements and otherwise international agreements that BiH has signed with other countries or other international institutions, it is sending a very ugly message that we are ready to access in BiH selectively to international 44 agreements and international obligations that we have made by signing certain international agreements and such a message of our willingness to be selective to the obligations that come under certain international agreements that we have accepted is not the best recommendation on the path for which we have verbally, rhetorically, all identified ourselves, and this is the way towards the EU and similar international associations. Finally, it should be reminded once again that it is the law in the first reading, and I agree with my colleague Živković that this simply has not been sufficiently highlighted in the debates so far. Let's say the name of the law is problematic, too, but I think it's simple to correct some of the amendments when we come to that stage and that such amendment with the new name of the law I believe that no one will be disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5273	Saša Magazinović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5274	A brief replica of the presentation of colleagues Franjičević, i.e. part of the exhibition where he talks about the selective selection of international agreements that we will respect, or implement. It's absolutely not about that, and in the discussion so far no one, no MP has said that anyone is against the implementation of any international agreement. We are here discussing how we will implement the provisions of a concrete agreement, i.e. agreement, plural, and we are discussing whether this is the best way to implement it. And let us have different opinions, and about the selective choice of international agreements that we will respect really is out of the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5275	Dušanka Majkić reports for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5276	So it's a good thing this law happened to show how unprincipled we are and how much we're really asking only what is as far as possible to get out for our political party. So, I refer primarily to the views of the Bosniak political parties SDA and SDP, who think that the only solution is to pass a law at BiH level, and they know that there is no law on holidays that we could make, that there is no political agreement on what we will celebrate together, and what we will remember with the pietate and that, automatically, 16 years after the war, if there is no possibility of such agreement on what kind of holiday law, as generally at BiH level, you can speak. We have seen, and that is said several times, BiH has no holiday, the Federation also has no holiday, although the chairman has tried to have something like it now. She uses the solutions of the former Yugoslavia. RS has holidays and I don't even know what this is for. We've got a holiday. Why do we even need that law? 45 It would be very good if anything could be arranged in this country, so here is that we have shown the will to agree that one step, and Minister Nović, as a man who takes great care, has the necessary sensitivity towards everyone, whoever knows him cannot say that he is a man who does not feel the problem of others, that he has spent many hours thinking whether he has hurt any of the other people. And I'm sure he didn't do it as a man. He saw this law that there was no way to bring the general, and let's try to solve this one little step at a time, that's a step at a time. And you know who needs this law? It needs employees in BiH institutions. Do you know what the situation is now? Representatives of the Serb people celebrate the holidays of religious Bošnjak and Hrvat and depend on what kind of institution they are, from case to case. They need this law. I was told by some who met me when the law was mentioned, says we took days off from our annual vacation so that we could celebrate the festival of the RS, or the religious holiday of the Orthodox people. So, please, are you, by this law now, bringing him down, leaving these people in a position to keep it that way. I want to understand that someone here cares to keep it that way. And we had an obligation to have enough sensitivity to solve this problem and try this little problem to solve one deal. If we fail to arrange this, I no longer have any illusions that any more serious law will be passed in this room. I don't have any obligation. So now I repeat again, the RS has a holiday law and it absolutely does not need this law. But we have a feeling for these people who work here. You? You should have like the rest of your colleagues. For much bigger things, much more small things cannot be arranged in this country, let alone the holiday law. We're gonna survive this, too. And I don't understand why Serbian representatives should protect this law? Here, considering all of this, especially the danger that follows from Article 5, whatever alignment, there's no way of getting along. svet Stefan will remain RS Day, and that, there is no force that could change that. There is no alignment that could impose this law. So, I expect to get, now from what I've seen so far, I see the only attitude of Bošnjak not to support the law. Now I say here – no matter what is proposed by the representatives of the Serbian people, means by the Serbian minister – I suggest we do not support it, because then we will please our colleagues Bošnjak and we will show one step, we will not solve anything, and here we will make a gentlemen's agreement, so here's a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5277	The replica was answered by Mr Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5278	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm Mešić, but that's what you're gonna learn, you're young. So, I'm correcting two false allegations by Mrs. Majkić. The first is the claim that we won't pass the holiday law. I'm explicitly telling you, we want to pass the holiday law, and there's no dilemma. Others blame the allegations you have repeatedly repeated and say that the Bosniak party is SDP. The SDP is not a Bosniak party, it is Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian, other and all BiH citizens. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5279	I thank Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. The word is Vesna Krstovic-Krstović-Spremo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5280	My colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I'd have one fundamental objection to the very name of the law. It is said 'The Unworkable Days Act at the time of BiH's religious holidays'. I don't think it's a good word for the name of this law at all. It should, in my opinion, be "The Unworkable Days Act at the time of the religious holidays of the people of BiH". That would make more sense to me. On the other hand, on this occasion, I would like to replicate a little bit of Mr Bećirović on his discussion from a moment ago. Here we have to clearly distinguish something, we're involved in a legal one, as I would say, a problem where we're going to need professional legal help. Because the other, gentlemen, are the religious holidays of the people, yes, and the other are the holidays of the state of BiH. We need to figure two things out. It means the religious holidays of the people as one term, i.e. legal, whether, as I would say, the case, and in the other case, it is about the national holidays of BiH. This could then be BiH's state holidays and would have to be the fundamental second draft law. And when it comes to this, it means a matter of religious holidays, we cannot say BiH. What does that mean, the religious holidays of BiH? Any religious holidays of the people of BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5281	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5282	Mr. Chairman, let me just say, so I think that as a member of the Constitutional Commission and the SNSD MP, I will vote against the negative position of the Constitutional Commission, because it is the only way for amendments to the amendment phase, therefore, to return this opinion to the Constitutional Commission, to try to correct the shortcomings in this law. We also think it is necessary to call it 'The Unworked Days Act at the time of the religious holidays in BiH', so to define it that way. And also, I think it would be necessary, we will certainly give an amendment to Article 5, which will make this dilemma much clearer in a certain sense that appears in some, although I am convinced that it... with its observations... has no legal basis. So this is about defining the right to use non-working days at the time of religious holidays of members of the Catholic, Orthodox, Islamic and Jewish religions in BiH, that it does not enter into the issue of the Law on Holidays in the RS, that nothing is being questioned by the Republic's Day in the RS entity. 47 A second question that I think would also be very important, so that by defining all BiH institutions, we can bring all employees into equal rights because we now have a completely illogical situation. And also members, I will now say, Orthodox religions in the Federation of BiH, which I think is also important. So everyone would be equal in BiH when it comes to this segment. When it comes to this second dilemma referred to by other respected political party colleagues, it refers to the holiday law. This debate has shown that it's impossible to make a maximalistic request for anyone in any sense in order to define, legally define, here's when we talk about the holiday law. But I believe that now that we are discussing these differences, when it comes to the holiday law, in BiH we have more than 50% agreement on certain dates. Therefore, when we have a common position in this regard, we should at least take a step to reach agreement on uncontested issues. When there's going to be a debate about something else, if there's an ambience, it's a whole different story. I wanted to say, this is where Minister Nović was mentioned. I had been a previous meeting for four years in commissions that discussed proposals for legal projects and laws that were within the jurisdiction of the Civil Affairs Ministry. I want to tell you that this is an incorrect attitude towards Minister Nović. Minister Nović, it has never happened that he has not accompanied every proposal and smallest law, conditionally said, if it can be talked about at least the law, until the end, until the second stage, so in the amendment phase, and that the debate was about everything, that he was responsible, correctly and professionally carrying out his duty. In that sense, when we talk about this bill, this is a story of a variety of political manipulations whether this or that is, it is unnecessary for me to assure you of the responsibility he has taken in this regard. And also his responsibility as a politically appointed minister in that position in front of the SNSD, i.e. from the RS Council of Ministers, so I have absolutely no doubt that I am thinking whether what he listed and what the arguments were not enough, that we are voting against the Commission's negative report so that the Commission will reconsider this. But if it fails today, it's no wonder, we've talked about some questions that we'll again, I'm sure, discuss in a year, two or six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5283	Thank you. The word has a second deputy chairman, Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5284	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I believe that there are far more reasons than against this law to support him in this first reading. It is true that this proposal does not solve the whole problem, especially not the issue of national holidays in BiH, and it is obvious that at this point we cannot agree on it and how long this period will take for no one to know. However, the reason I think it should be supported in the first reading of this law is that it edits part of what will be part of this BiH holiday. The next reason is that this issue has already been settled in part of BiH -- in RS, in Brcko District, and in the Federation of BiH, the law of '73 is in force, as far as I could see. the years of the former 48 states. I don't see that for anyone here who sits in Parliament today in 2011... and comes from the Federation of BiH, a more acceptable law from the SFRJ of '73. rather than this proposal, which was established by the Council of Ministers, whose representatives still have a majority in this House today. Therefore, the fact that it was also established by the Council of Ministers is also an argument for me. On the other hand, the next reason for this is that we respect an interstate agreement signed by BiH with the svet stolica and also an agreement that, as we know, is signed with the Serbian Orthodox Church. Finally, the Constitutional Commission gave a positive opinion on the compliance of the law with the Constitution and the legal system, until, of course, it gave a positive opinion on the principles, if I'm right, Mr Džaferović. Therefore, there are much more reasons for us to support this law than not to support it, along with the fence, of course, that it does not solve all the issues that come from the domain of working days in BiH. What I have cited here and on the Constitutional Commission as a possible problem of the possible discrimination of the unbeliefing in the use of the days off can also be resolved in the amendment phase in a way that people who do not believe, who do not celebrate any of the holidays of these four confesions mentioned here, have the right in a year to the same number of days off. And I think this law should be supported today at this first stage, and then through the amendment phase, eventually, to make necessary adjustments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5285	I want to say again that I am fully aware that no one here today will convince anyone. Everyone repeated more or less what we knew before this session. However, I would like to say to Ljubić colleagues that there is no SFRJ law since 1973. The Federation is marking, I certainly know, November 25th as Statehood Day when anti-fascists Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others hit the foundations of BiH's new age statehood. And the second date to be marked is Independence Day. If it hadn't been for my colleague Ljubić, those two dates, neither you nor I would have sat in the state parliament today, on top of the head, this would have been some province parliament. Replica, Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5286	Your Honor, when are we going to pass the Labour Day Act? So here's the best situation for you and what's so complicated so far that we're still making it as complicated as possible and there's no end to this. This law, spoken by colleagues, and is not a replica to them, is a replica to you that you mix with religious holidays what was once brought in by I would not know who. So they were not religious, they were no one then believed in Bog, and they were not making any laws at that time, neither in the name of the believers nor in these names, but in the name of themselves. But good. So, to you this replica... 49 But I tell you, as long as these laws are in a procedure that we can never agree on and complicate the situation. When will it be the law for this people to live better? And this law, you know who it suits? Only employees of BiH institutions. That's where you'll see 100% respect. But then we go to another extreme. We didn't have a list, we want a civil state so they don't make a national statement, and we don't want a language. And when it comes to religiousism, then we're all Bošnjak when Bajram is, we all leave BiH institutions, you can't find anyone here. When the Orthodox holiday is still shy, because there is no law at BiH level on respecting the holidays so that he would not order coffee for free, he saw that he was gone, he was ashamed. I don't know about Hrvat, to tell you the truth, but they're in the same situation as these Srbin are my unhappy ones. When I say mine, they're all mine, so I don't make the selection. But I'm thinking of this respect for these holidays. So, gentlemen dear, I believe in Bog, I don't believe in any of the people who bring these -- don't happen to think that I'm making an adjudication of any kind on Sredoje Nović, this is good -- but we have a whole million things to regulate this, people. I'm telling you before, laugh all you want, to pass the law to do something here. Not us, but to allow the people to live better, to work, and then this is how it will be when Bajram celebrates with a full plate, when he celebrates Vaskrs and has a full table there, when, I don't know, he turns a pig or a lamb for Christmas. Please, nice. And give it to you once in college when we have these agenda points, when you know in the beginning that there's no agreement and that it's not possible, that we don't complicate further and that it's not, my esteemed colleague, from that point, but it's a good dyspression. I'm surprised there hasn't been a party yet, but nobody can sing who I can, so I can't make a flock, I'd be an individual myself. So don't even solve this individually, because it's impossible to compromise here. May anyone celebrate, I respect, I have said a million times, the true believer of the Bošnjak, the true Srbin believer, the true Hrvat, the true Jevreje, the Rom, everything. And then I ask who's right and who's wrong. So whoever wants it to be right. And let's all be true to respect others and then, of course, others respect our own. It's the only way every holiday will be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5287	I thank Mr. Jovičić. I'm convinced that you know that we in the College have to put on the agenda everything that comes from authorized promoters. Thank you. Mr. Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5288	The replica refers, Your Honor, to your finding that in the Federation there are, You have listed, which two holidays are marked. That is true, however, it should also not be disturbed from the mind that their marking is not the result of the legally regulated area in the Federation of BiH, which is again for other reasons and understandable because the Constitution of the Federation of BiH is such as to require that the area be arranged together with the counties, i.e. cantons that are part of the Federation of BiH. I also want to say that we're really in the back of things here. The essence of the whole problem lies in the fact that there are religious holidays and that they are, the fact that we do not define them 50 despite the debates that, in fact, could conclude that we should be so ambitious and define religious holidays. Religious holidays exist and we are actually ahead of the election whether we will accept a principled position that members of these four most relevant or most representative religious communities, which exist in BiH, which I will not list, have the right not to work at the time of these most important religious holidays, to have unworkable days. That's one attitude. And the second is the attitude, principled nature too, whether we accept as relevant certain international agreements that touch this matter and which force us to regulate this in one way or in a very similar way. And the third thing, again, should be reminded that it is the law in the first reading and that, in my opinion, I don't know, I won't use too strong words, but it's completely inappropriate for a law like this not to be adopted in the first reading when we have a chance to act and fix everything that needs to be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5289	Mladen Ivanković Lijanović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not found in the materials I have obtained that proves that you are Catholic, Bošnjak, Orthodox or Jevrej. Because let's not forget that in BiH, me, my knowledge at least says we have too many holidays for everyone, especially in the business sector. I know from experience that we have too much, from the level of even the municipality, the canton, the Federation, so here's the state. Let us not forget that we have business entities that have several hundred workers, so times, here, five of these working days – that is a few tens of thousands of days, so times hours, and then times marks – that is several thousand marks. One economic subject should be singled out for this law, which the employer can rightly say: Gentlemen, you are all atheists to me, give me confirmation bring or something. That's why I didn't see if this law was set up. And if it is, I think we need to pass a law at BiH level on working days and limit it, which will limit the lower levels of government to quota so that we can't burden the economic sector, and we're so uncompetitive, and say that we can have, I don't know, 15 or 20 days of unemployed and that employers have to pay for it. And so I can't support a law like this. And I also can't support that Christmas, for example. It'll be hard for anyone to convince me. It's not a two-day holiday. I especially say when it comes to the number of days off, I will personally advocate that it be as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5291	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: 51 Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-7-555/10, of 11. Ten. 2010 (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers of the Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure on 11.10.2010. On 17.6.2011, the Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of an opinion on the Proposal for a Law. As the deadline for the delivery of this opinion, the House College set 8.7.2011. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 30.6.2011. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Is anyone answering for a discussion? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-54/10, of 11. Ten. 2010 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5294	Here, I'd like to thank you now, if I've recently tried to now commend the proposal of the gentleman who came to us from the Ministry of Civil Affairs. With this... The SDS Club will support this law by having one amendment, because we believe that Article 3 (2) mentions 'effective link', means a citizen who stays abroad for more than three months and who does not intend to stay in the country where he currently resides and if he maintains an effective relationship with BiH, etc., we believe that this term 'efficient link' here is a little too flexible and subject to manipulation. In the existing legal solution, it is precise, so it is said if his family is in BiH, etc., so we expect either a proposaler or eventually we will submit an amendment in any case. 52 We also believe that it is a good thing that citizens are able to make it easier to report the place of residence, and also that the obligation to attach proof of residence to a registered address is also established, because in earlier practice we have, unfortunately, recorded cases that we, for example, have known criminals from Serbia for whom serious warrants had residences in BiH at some fictitious fictional addresses. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5295	Danijela Martinović reports for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5296	Thank you very much. Unlike my colleague, I'd like to expose a few illogicalities that I've already seen in my first reading, so a few problematic items. They relate to Articles 2, 3 and 7 amending the current Articles 8, 9 and 14 of the applicable law. So what was not clear to me was in article 2 in paragraph 2 where it is said "that proof that the citizen has a valid legal basis for the residence of evidence of the ownership of the apartment or sub-inhabitation contract". So no mention of the house, or any other real estate. So that's already one maybe technical problem, but it's a significant problem. Paragraph 4, says... the same paragraph says "a citizen must bring a valid legal basis, i.e. proof that he owns an apartment, i.e. a sub-prime contract". And in Article 4, which I do not understand, of course, is that ‘the competent authorities are under official duty within three years obliged to obtain evidence relating to ownership for each citizen’. So I don't understand who needs to get the evidence, is it, therefore, the applicant of the residence application, or the competent authority? Perhaps the competent authority should only control the validity of these evidence, not simply obtaining evidence. Furthermore, Article 3 amending Article 9, I ask the question: Why has this one-year period been reduced to three months? So, this is the first sentence: 'a citizen who lives constantly... and stays abroad for more than three months is obliged to check out his residence in BiH'. Then it is said "it must report the place of residence abroad". Isn't it logical if anyone stays out for a long time that they have to... according to the laws, applicable laws of the country to report staying abroad? But the problem is what happens to the residence, the stay logs in, and what happens to the residence?- I'm sorry. Furthermore, in the second paragraph, I do not understand what it means that a citizen should not report, or check out BiH's residence if he maintains an effective relationship with BiH. What does keeping an effective relationship with BiH mean? So it's not precise. Then it's grammatical again, or I'm saying spelling technical error. At the end of this same article, he says "a citizen born of a child" and says "she". It's not easy, a child was born, so a female. 53 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5297	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5298	... then Article 7, it is said, therefore, to be mentioned persons who may obtain certain data from electronic records. It is referred to as ‘on the basis of the requested request’, whose request is not indicated, a transfer of the data of a particular person and of other parties may be carried out. We don't know what other sides they are again. And it's said "when a person proves legitimate interest." I'm interested in what it is that person who can prove legitimate interest and what it means. Then, at the end of this same article, there are again some ambiguities that may be grammatical or spelling again, and it is said 'before the data is transferred to the data of the data subject', so point. I guess before the data transfer of the data to the data subject should be notified. So these are some misunderstandings for me. Then again, the body in charge, etc., the body in receipt and everything. So there are some technical things, but also essential things that should be changed, and also to clarify as well as in the explanation of Article 3 itself which says 'yes in certain cases', so 'person is obliged to report his residence abroad'. And what are certain cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5299	Since there are no more reported debaters, we move to agenda 14 item Ad. 14. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-7-56/10, of 12. Ten. 2010 You've received a match report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. Today, we are pleading in the second round on the BiH Council of Ministers' request. As you know, there is no debate here. Point 15. 54 Ad. 15. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-7-61/10, of 3. 11. 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5310	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the Constitutional Commission took note of this report, supported recommendations and proposed that the House support the Central Election Commission's recommendations. 57 As it is known, is it, after every election cycle in BiH, we have the custom to, after reports submitted by the Central Election Commission, form inter-resor working groups that would review... all those legal solutions that have proved problematic in practice from the previous election cycle. And this time there are such solutions, and that is why I think it is necessary for this home today – once it supports the recommendations, whether today or if the College prepares for the next session you decide as a College – to form an ad hoc commission that will work on amendments to the election law, the Law on conflict of interest, the Law on the financing of political parties. The Central Election Commission's recommendations also discuss the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić-Finc, but as far as I know, the Council of Ministers of BiH also tasked the justice ministry yesterday to form a single group that will work on implementation, i.e. making amendments and implementation of that verdict. The Council of Ministers is ultimately responsible for the execution of that verdict, and I would not like to bring the Parliamentary Assembly too much into this, although it does not mind the Parliamentary Assembly being also an institution that would work for the implementation of that verdict. But since the Council of Ministers did so, then I would limit this proposal from our commission, let the Council of Ministers form a group that will work on the implementation of the Sejdić-Finc verdict, and Parliament, in principle, as we have done so far, to form a group that would work on the implementation of these laws, namely the Election Law, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. We have so far had the custom of forming these committees and, if we want to do so today, then we have a formula that we have applied several times, and it is said that the commission consists of three members of this House, three members of the House of Peoples and four members of the Election Commission, plus three members from the Council of Ministers, so three ministers from the Council of Ministers. It was the composition of the previous commissions. They would review, along with the Election Commission, a complete electoral law, see what it is that needs to be fixed. There will be a question here and constitutional reforms and all that, but let's leave it for the commission to work. By law on conflict of interest, we have a review of the Venice Commission, it certainly needs to be harmonised when it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties. So, to conclude, I suggest that the House backs the positions of the Constitutional Legal Commission on this report and now I leave you on the dilemma, because we didn't agree on this committee, whether today as a College, you're going to go out with a proposal to form an interresor working group or you're going to go out at the next session. And I've given some frames to make this inter-resor working group look, of course, if you respect that and support this home. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5311	The word is Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5312	So, as it is a little bit of a practice to be put in place here to immediately declare, we will support this report on the implementation of the law under the jurisdiction of the CEC, for the simple reason that we are convinced that the CEC consistently and properly implemented the laws for which it is in charge. 58 I think that the election processes in BiH, here for several years that we have been doing on our own, mostly thanks to the CEC, are achievements that BiH can be proud of. For the simple reason I'm saying this, because we don't trust ourselves, these are the evaluations of international organizations dealing with this problem. It should also be borne in mind that the Central Election Commission has worked in very specific conditions. So, under one type and pressure, etc., so the high representative entered, entered some spheres which, as far as my party was concerned, were not acceptable. So he put it on, suspended the CEC decisions that, according to us, were correct. There is also a tendency to dispel the CEC, i.e. that a number of competences are also reduced. So, keeping this in mind, and these assessments I spoke of, we will absolutely support this report and, of course, by welcoming again and again the will and tenacity of the CEC people to make recommendations, so they are not discouraged by earlier failures, so we will also support these recommendations mentioned in this report, which Mr Džaferović also spoke of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5313	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5314	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have read this report on the work of the Central Election Commission and I would like to say a few words about this report, i.e. the implementation of laws which are in the jurisdiction of the CEC, which have been implemented in the past 2010 election year. All here are consensual, and here is a proposal from the Constitutional Commission, to support recommendations that after each chapter, so to speak, the CEC members, for the simple reason that they are all consensual, I suppose, most political parties, that legislative solutions in the electoral legislation are not good and that they need to be corrected urgently. With this in mind, of course, I support the formation of an interresor working group that will have the task of analysing, applying or rejecting and amending the amendments, i.e. to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing these three laws in the electoral legislation. I would also like to point out the following: yes, if we want to do so and to adopt it and that these remarks have a real result, then this should be done by the new year, it means that all the activities related to the amendment... the three laws of the electoral legislation are adopted in order to be applied to the next elections. In doing so, I propose that a minimum of consensus be reached, i.e. to go with those proposals that can be realised, which can be adopted in order for these laws to pass. Right at the beginning of the material itself, in the introduction, we see how the Election Commission worked, that the work of the Election Commission made it difficult for individual CEC members to prepare and consider the material for the meetings. The Election Commission itself notes on its work... 59
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5315	I'm asking you during the debate really a little attention. NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5316	that the Election Commission itself who submitted this report finds that their work, immediately in the introduction, was not good, or that they were not doing what was right, regardless of the very decent wages they were receiving, and that no one was responsible for not attending their work obligations and for failing to carry out their business tasks. Secondly, I would like to point out, in the end, that the Election Commission has given itself powers that do not belong to it, which is to audit the work of political parties, and the revision of the work of political parties, i.e. all bodies and institutions of the BiH state, ministries, agencies and directorates of the Office for Audit. Why did the Central Election Commission do its homework? And finally, once again, I want to support the urgent formation of an interresor working group that will be working on an emergency adoption, until the new year, of all these laws from the set of electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5317	The word has Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5318	I'd like to say next when it comes to the Electoral Commission. I think she did well this commission, and I have noticed that it is one body that works impartially, which is rare to find when it comes to BiH institutions, really impartially. And I think politics in BiH has a major impact on all institutions, but it's little in the CEC's yard. And that's where the Central Election Commission has shown its consistency, and in this respect it really needs to be supported. Of course, it does a complex job, a very complex job, and it has been remarkable in this complex work under various pressures, etc. I couldn't accept the fact that this commission went beyond its jurisdiction. I must say that I have been following this situation, that I have not noticed this fact that the CEC, that particular commission, has sought to abide continuously within its jurisdiction, or within the framework of the Election Law, or constitutional powers. As for the proposal of the President of the Constitutional Commission, there were different views on the formation of an interresor group already on the Constitutional Commission. In fact, I think this is too much work to be accepted by one group and it is necessary to form at least three groups. Election law is one complex substance. After the Constitution it is... a political act, therefore, as well as a constitution which is a political act not only legal, it is a very important one act where you have a confrontation of different interests and it is difficult to reach certain compromises. I was on that committee, and I know how much we worked on last election law. So my point would be to consider forming more groups than an inter-resor group. Because this is about really important issues. 60 The Law on the financing of political parties, I don't think that's settled, I don't think that's settled, and that's one thing, I'd say, a painful issue in BiH as a whole. Finally, the time has come that we should resolve the issue how all democratic countries have dealt with it. Also, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, I think that the Election Commission has also shown a good and envious dose of consistency and has indeed applied the regulations that it had at its disposal. So that would be my point of view on reports and proposals to form a task force.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5319	I thank the esteemed representative, Mr. Petar Kunić. The following came to the debate with the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5320	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll give you a few reviews of this report. First, let me mention in the beginning that the very concept of this report which speaks of the implementation of... of the law, not just one law, is very good because it also signals in some way, i.e. the identification of both areas of the problem and also signals the areas of need to find adequate solutions. In that sense and commendation for the very concept of the Report. So it's not stereotypan - so many held sessions, etc., as we usually find in reports of this kind. What I can mention and express and hope that this parliament and other institutions will not remain, in some way, silently on the recommendations made by the Central Election Commission by conjecturing the report in this way. Of course, this report can also be a good one, perhaps, to object to what has both excess material and content, which could be, for example, a report of this kind and acquittal. For example, they have lagged behind, in my opinion, individual recommendations on the implementation of the Electoral Law. I see you have individual recommendations on other laws and synthesized recommendations in general. And what might be necessary for this report, and especially after that, to point out that we are also as Parliament, and not only Parliament, I believe the Council of Ministers, too, have been able to deafen about the CEC and their need to normalise their work, the issue of solving space, etc., so here may be the opportunity to mention that too. However, what I particularly wish to stress is the CEC's competences. I think that exactly what I mentioned earlier, the lack of recommendations on the implementation of the Election Law, may be an opportunity for us to perhaps win separately, although very well here is the apostrophysed issue of last elections, i.e. summation of election results and problems, which is the implementation of election results. Let's just say there's no such thing as an existing law and, as we know, here's nine and a half months after the election we're facing the fact that we still don't have power. I only mention this in terms of strengthening the CEC's competence and as a deblocking instrument. Perhaps this is a good example of perhaps signalling areas that need to be legally resolved in the context of some recommendations, or the emphasis from the CEC on post-election experience. 61 And here, in the end, let me mention, with praise – I especially want to mention the last elections – the CEC at your resistance, resisting political pressures that speaks a lot about the depolitisation of the Central Election Commission institution, and that is exactly what it should be. I hope that you with such a practice and will continue with the promotion, of course, and your work with support in this legislative sense and by the legislative bodies. Perhaps we should speed up a little, or perhaps with suggestions or dynamics of an adequate one, given the fact that we have a year left, or we are practically already ahead of the elections, the local elections, which will take place in October of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5321	...respective representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. The following came to the debate by distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5322	I don't think it would be right if we didn't say a few words about an institution like that. We have been used to getting good reports for years and following the good work of a professional institution that is surprisingly trusted by all three peoples. And if what happened after the last election hadn't happened, it would have been written down as an institution whose name really needs to be written in capital letters. Not only are these good reports but their recommendations and suggestions have always been useful, and their work on commissions and groups dealing with the Electoral Law, the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties has been invaluable to all of us. I've been thinking now, while he's a professor. Kunić spoke about the fact that there might be several working groups or thought about actually the capacity limit of that group being in the CEC, as much as they actually have the power to split into three parts to get equal quality three laws. And I think it's primarily up to them. As for all other participants, it's no problem to define and determine their number, but I think they're the key to everything. Being impartial and being professional, that's something that really works with respect. I mean, when I talk about CEC, I feel that way, I think, and that's what I'm talking about. Those who were against the CEC, those who were making an attack on this country's constitution, those who were making a strike on the CEC, and they showed their trail, because they say 'no snow to cover the hill but... shows a trail.' And I can tell you that they really showed it. And here, in these observations on the report itself, it's all clear. And those who listen to it and see it will be clear to all. The SNSD deeply supports what the CEC is doing, even if it had reached out to me that there are some internal conflicts that were more professional and professional than they were national, and we know how this Central Election Commission was made up. And in the end, I think it's a lot of luck that at this very moment after the election, don't mind me being a cop sensitive and going to that neighborhood, that's a good part of it thanks to this institution being run by a woman. 62 So I really thank you for everything you've done so far. I hope, your mandates stand out, but I hope there's always a second chance and I hope that the CEC will be, in the same way it will be evaluated in this conference, that the same grades will be as they were... called out. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5323	The word has Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5324	Thank you, Chairman. Well, this is an interesting situation that, as far as I understand it, whoever came to praise the work of the CEC and this is a unique debate and probably a unique case, a single BiH institution that almost everyone has a positive opinion on its work. First of all because she showed responsibility for the work she's doing and because we're all witnessing progress in the election process, because anyone who has the Internet and the computer can see and check out the results transparently, everything that's been done in the Election Commission and check who's standing, and I haven't heard a single comment. I congratulate you on the Internet system that, I'm sure, all political parties use a lot for analysis, so here's the SDS. I must admit that we use your system very often for analysis before our own system. So it's obvious that a big deal has been done, but I can't say that there have been no political pressures and I can't say that sometimes you're not, perhaps unconsciously, in some decision and succumbing, but it's all an individual case, and an institution that's constantly under pressure and getting this kind of commendation, here, once again, to congratulate something like that. There are things you didn't finish, at least you didn't end up the way it would have been better, you didn't finish the story of registering voters in Brcko. It's not all about you. I know that there's a problem with issuing ID cards and... or citizenship that isn't introduced... in issuing ID cards, but I appeal this time to start solving this problem in time, not five months before the election as before. I must express my disappointment that the OHR has decided to interfere with the decision-making of the CEC, which in some way sent a counter-message of what we are all talking about here. They really read the law, acted under the law, and I believe that any interference in the work of the CEC is counterproductive to political stability in BiH and I hope that there will be no more such cases. However, it does not depend on us here, it probably depends on the duration of the OHR in BiH. So I must say that I support this proposal by Mr. Džaferović to form a body that will immediately start to consider the changes to all these laws that are related to the elections. We believe that if you can't form this body now, you should form it on the next one, but not the body that needs to implement the CEC recommendations, as you said, but the body that needs to prepare the amendments to the law because
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5325	That's it... 63
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5326	It's not the same, I mean, so not only are the changes in the CEC, because we have our own proposals for better regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5327	I remind my colleagues that this is the 2010 Central Election Commission Report. So that's what we have in mind. Next up for the word is Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5328	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Central Election Commission, distinguished guests, so here we have today this report on the implementation of the law from the jurisdiction of the country's most responsible institution to guarantee one of the basic provisions of the BiH Constitution, which says BiH is a democratic state operating in accordance with the law and the foundation of free and democratic elections. One such institution certainly deserves special attention in this house and any appearance... any report can certainly not be put in a plane, that no one blames me, some other institutions that also submit reports to this Parliament. This is in every system in every country, for every country, especially that wants to keep the prefix democratic, certainly one of the most important institutions. I think you've heard enough compliments. I won't give you any compliments, I don't mean to criticize you, it's absolutely normal for me to have such an important institution doing its job just like that. And I don't think it should be a surprise. It's something that or should be understood for all the institutions of this country, and especially for those, here, who want or, to put it that way, they have responsibility on their backs as well as... direct constitutional norms, so to speak, not just laws that define jurisdiction. Certainly, it is not the responsibility of the Central Election Commission that we have an imperfect or unfair constitutional system, especially since we have an imperfect electoral legislation. Unfortunately, many in this country are trying to make up for it with some kind of political pressure, so that the Central Election Commission and some of them will do what they think they like, even though they are aware that what they think is not written in the constitutions of this country, and in particular it does not say in the electoral legislation for which it is competent, the only competent Central Election Commission. You of many, especially from international circles, have listened to these years of compliments and I think when you have been given the most pressure since at least the Central Election Commission of BiH works and then you have received a satisfaction from the Governing Council for the Implementation of Peace in BiH which, however, has been in absolute contradiction with the actions of those who conduct their decisions here in BiH. But here, I understand that it's also a kind of satisfaction to you for the way you've done your jobs very seriously and very responsiblely. I believe that the Central Election Commission and the future will be a guarantee of these constitutional provisions, a guarantee of the democratic order in this 64-nation country, that, with the help of all those involved in the creation of legislation, who participate in the creation of tools for your work, that you will get clearer norms, and I believe that there will be no room for each election or after the election anyone can give himself the right to press the Election Commission to make such or such a decision. I am sorry, and I agree with my colleague Bosić, which is also the institution of the High Representative, so I will not only say that I am sorry – and I am sorry, to be honest – that she has so unprincipledly intervened in this country's electoral process and in a kind of way almost questioned the regular complete electoral process by her unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily interfering, destroying the credibility of one of the country's most important institutions. It may be a message, although I am sometimes in favour of the need for such institutions to exist in this country, but this kind of action on the work of an independent institution, in a special way and of the Court of BiH, has been questioned in the most serious way by the justification of the existence of the institution that is here teaching us, and I am glad that even in this debate we respect the dignity of the Central Election Commission, teaches us to respect the independence of such independent institutions, and it would be good for those who teach us to behave in the future, even as long as they have the mandate to make decisions in this country. I would like to express my confidence that because some have already said this, but perhaps, if not at today's session but at the next session, I would say, I would be much happier if we could say the more radical changes in electoral legislation, but here, at least in the repairs, because what we have so far, we haven't had, and I believe that here is the time that we have before us by the end of the year to use certain things together, certain gaps in the electoral legislation, to really enable the Election Commission to continue to work on the satisfaction of everyone in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5329	The following came to mind the second vice-president Božo Ljubić, and I remind again that this is the 2010 Report, and I remind the MPs that there will be opportunities to discuss what happened in 2011.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5330	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Central Election Commission, therefore, your presence in this number here today actually shows me respect for the voice of the public, respect for this Parliament, and I appreciate that further. I will immediately say at the beginning that I support the report and the work of the Central Election Commission, I support the recommendations, of course, and I gave my voice to them and also to the session of the Constitutional Commission. Since we are here today discussing the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission, I do not, therefore, have any objections to the action of the Central Election Commission in the implementation of these laws. Of course, this does not mean that I am satisfied with the whole election process, but I am supporting what was in the power of the Central Election Commission. The other things certainly go to the expense of the imperfection of the Electoral Law, at the expense of the lack of the Constitution, at the expense of the lack of overall political or, I would say, 65 democratic maturity here in BiH to conduct elections in a way or in accordance with the highest democratic standards in the civilized world. What I want to say here and join those colleagues who express their dissatisfaction that the institution of the OHR international community has interfered with the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission which in no way raises the need for such an institution and the support of such an institution. I must also express recognition to the institutions of the international community who have helped and conducted election processes or supervised them until we have received a mature domestic institution that works in a legitimate democratic and independent way. And I therefore more regret that an institution of the international community has intervened in this unscrupulous way and questioned the respect of the law of the Central Election Commission. What is, of course, in front of all of us and you who are going to work with us is that we do this Electoral Law in a way that, first of all, respects all the rights of the citizens and the peoples of BiH. Of course, there's just a change of electoral law that won't be enough, it'll take a change of constitution. And in that sense, of course, I advocate that this Constitution, and then, according to this and the Election Law, is changed in a way that releases the rights of all citizens in BiH who, I say, are part of the obligations to the European Court of Human Rights, but also that the rights of the constituent peoples in BiH are equal and we have a very responsible job ahead of us. And I, of course, support the formation of a proper commission. And I think that the manner of the commission, as suggested by counterpart Džaferović, is the question so today's Parliament's decision, when we do so, is not crucial to do so today. To seriously approach the change of electoral legislation, but at the same time listen to and work on changes to the Constitution that will then be applied in this Electoral Law. Of course, there are other things to be changed in haste. These are the things that have already been proved in practice as the basis for electoral engineering, we all know what this is about. On the other hand, to make changes that will allow gender equality, hence gender, in BiH, which the existing Election Law obviously failed to realise, in addition to good intentions. It shows the composition of this parliament where out of 42 MPs we have, I think, only seven MPs. I think that these things can be regulated in a better way and that there is a willingness in this House to regulate these things together with you. So, finally, the Central Election Commission, and based on this debate here in Parliament, justified its existence and showed that there is the capacity in BiH that domestic institutions do this job on condition, of course, that they are allowed to work independently, that we rely only on their expertise and... that no domestic or international policy is involved in this process in an unencumbered way, but that we are all supporting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5331	And last reported, within this agenda point, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5332	Mr President, I would like to confirm what we have found on the Commission that I support the recommendations proposed by the Central Election Commission in this report on the implementation of the law under my jurisdiction for 2010. This is a particularly important report given that it has been an election year, so that there have been general elections in BiH and no matter what... that the CEC has managed as a respectable body in BiH to end this election process as required by the law. But regardless of all this, I would like to point out some weaknesses that should be eliminated, i.e. by improving the electoral law, so that the gaps that were in the previous election process would not be present. It is necessary to speed up the process of creating an interresor working group to amend the electoral law and laws that treat electoral legislation. No wonder it's... BiH's electoral law is likely to be the most amended law that has had the most additions, changes and additions. ... now needs to work more to strengthen the capacity of municipal electoral commissions. I do not believe that we have yet to adequately affirm the role and responsibility for the failures and errors of the election boards as well as the professionality of the election committees in order to respond to any failures occurring during the election process. I think special attention should be paid to the position of the president of the electoral committee and this technical process of counting votes as well as the monitoring of vote counting. A particular problem that has been suggested in BiH for many years concerns the lists. Therefore, there is no disputed approach to open lists to elect legislative positions in BiH, but there are often certain abuses present. They should be eliminated in such a way that they can be reduced to the least possible measure, whether it is open lists to vote on one candidate, whether it is the current principle to vote on multiple candidates on a single election list, with the voter potentially rounding... the exact number of candidates he voted for in order not to bring it down to the full abuses that are present. In that sense, I believe that the judicial authorities should react more quickly at all levels in terms of sanctioning those who abuse the electoral process. I also believe that certain dilemmas are often created because of the length of the count and the official publication of election results. This process should be improved in such a way as to eliminate any doubts. There are experiences from countries in the region in such a way as to transfer some of the competences to a lower level. First of all, I consider it a lower level when it comes to municipal electoral commissions and when it comes to entity election commissions, because de facto we have them by law, and now they're not actually implementing this process. Not once since the adoption of the Electoral Law has an analysis been made, so voters have come out to election units, possibly reducing the number of MPs to certain constituency units and increasing to others where... shows the need for it, as it has not been approached because besides this... consideration regarding election units should be considered to reduce the number of compensatory mandates on voter lists at all levels. ...I mean on the levels where they apply. Where they don't apply, I don't think it's necessary. The team would strengthen the direct role of directly winning the mandate and responsibility of the elected official towards the electoral body. I believe that there are certain... issues that should be resolved when it comes to ways of choice, but they will be directly within the meaning of, above all, defining some issues that even concern the Constitution. 67 When it comes to the second law of special importance, it is the Law on conflict of interest, I believe that BiH, I speak BiH, has a rather rigorous Law on conflict of interest. It should be applicable and its provisions should be harmonised for the entire BiH area. That would be of special importance. I express my dilemma and reserve and believe it is necessary to comply with the European Charter of Human Rights. I believe that the pre-rigorous measure of confiscation of the mandate and in particular the ban on running, with the view that the amount of fines, for potentially unlawfully obtained benefit in the event of a conflict of interest, should be increased to a greater amount, thus eliminating the possibility of abuse and the removal of the mandate. I also find it unfair and must be harmonised to establish a conflict of interest for the elected and appointed official. We cannot have an elected MP in a position that can be taken away from the mandate, for four years, and at the same time that the minister, to establish a conflict of interest, cannot be taken away from his mandate, to ask that this should be voted in another way... a mandate. So, I think that we should seriously consider whether the CEC should reduce this right to withdraw its mandate and to ban running or to be aware of that level that possibly such a sanction must be expressed as a final instance to bring the Parliamentary Assembly, in this case I am talking about BiH... I will also say that it is necessary, seeing that patience has expired quite an end, that it is necessary to work on greater transparency of the Law on the financing of political parties. I believe that a key question should not be made, these limits should be increased, but the key question is that the public must be informed who is financing or campaigning or the work of political parties. And I don't see that problem at all. We could cut budget funds for these needs and create a model of donations or donations in accordance with, normally, with the law to do so. I also believe that the Law on political parties should be brought into line with this. So, I think we should urgently have these interresor working groups because if we don't do something about amending the Election Law by the end of this year, then it's unrealistic to expect that for local elections we have changes and additions of laws that would improve quality. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5333	Thank you. Before I give my word to my colleague, Jovičić, just one note. We in the College of the House of Representatives, and in view of a whole series of demands from MPs from different parties, planned at 1400 hours to give a 60-minute break. It is my suggestion that we listen to a colleague of Jovičić and then close the debate within this agenda. Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5334	Mr. Chairman, the break will be exactly what hours you said, if I decide, of course I don't decide. So today this looks like a direct television broadcast to me. When television and cameras are on, anyone would want to say something. We have today, and let's do this, and this is, and they're always 68 there, not today, but always, in the strongest, I would say, the composition or the complete composition – the Election Commission. And at least I heard about the report here today. If everything was best written or worst written there, what are we going to change in the report? Nothing. The report is what it is. I heard here today what would be the task of an interresor group or an ad hoc commission or a working group on recommendations. That's all there is to do, people, but that's not the story of this awareness we're talking about. And today, this is like that: let's do as many compliments as possible. Of course, people were doing great, and that's what everyone's gonna say. But to avoid confusion, we don't depend on them and we're not chosen by their will, they're just doing things by law, so that I don't invest, flirt or boast – bravo, you're the brightest, and thanks to you I'm sitting here, so I'm going to say that you're the best and better even than me, because if you weren't here and I wouldn't be getting paid by this Parliament. It's not like that, I'll be honest. You did a great job, your report is what it is, here I read it, he's good, he showed everything you did and what problems you had and, of course, what you should do. But today, I've heard 95% of what needs to be changed. Wait, let the interresor task force and this commission, if we form it, so let them do it and it wasn't about this report. As I keep my word, I end up, and as you, Mr. Chairman, have announced – you do it, I have no right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5335	I thank Mr. Jovičić for his very condensed presentation. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing and taking a 60-minute break. So, proceed at 15.00 hours. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please take your seats. We continue with the work of the 5th session of the House of Representatives. I'm opening item 24 of the agenda: ad. 24. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01-50-19-334/11, of 26. 4. 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5338	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5339	Here's if you feel the need to...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5340	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5341	Yeah, you're registered. The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5342	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually have a few questions, given that we have the governor of the Central Bank here, and they are also related to point 24 and point 25. The first question, if we look at the Central Bank's 2009 profits, was about 100 million KM, in 2010, it was 60 million, and it was projected in 2011. 55 million, of which, so far for the first six months, 19.5 has been paid; my question is: What is the result of this decline in the Central Bank of BiH? Is that the result of the crisis, is that the result of something else? Anyway, here's a chance to get an answer from the governor. Although deposits are on the rise, what's causing such a bad thing, let me put it this way, to business, even though it can't be called that? Second question: What has the Central Bank done on its own savings, when we know that both the Council of Ministers and all BiH institutions have made plans for more rational behaviour in spending funds? The question is, what did the Central Bank do about it? Third question: Is it true that salaries in the Central Bank are twice as high as in all central banks in the environment, countries in the environment, Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro, etc.? And fourthly, so the Central Bank has its departments or departments, or already as they are called, in Mostar, Banja Luka and Sarajevo. My question: What does the Central Bank's out-of-town department do at the Palace that employs about 20 people? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5343	The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5344	Thank you very much. 70 So, I would refer to the discussion, not to refer to the Central Bank's Financial Report, but to the Central Bank's Annual Report, so what's about the macroeconomic... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is that the next point? Well, I'm sorry, then. Then I'll get back to you on this next point. I thought they were connected to both of you, if they weren't...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5346	No, they're not. The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5347	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me first at the beginning of this debate on the Annual Report, I would say, however, about the work of the Central Bank, to express my satisfaction that we have one review of the overall economic situation, not only of what is in the Central Bank's field of action, and I think it is quite useful for all those who do not breathe on this matter to gain an overview of the economic situation in BiH. I want to especially commend the Central Bank statistics. For those who are less aware, the system of national accounts used by the Statistics Agency and which has already stepped well in the process of incorporated international standards on the basis of which the instructions relating to monetary government finances have been issued, etc. and the balance of payments prescribed by the International Monetary Fund, our Central Bank fully applies. And this report is in line with the instructions, or recommendations for all member states of the International Monetary Fund, in that segment relating to monetary finance, government finance and balance of payments. In this respect, and a special commendation to the Agency, that is, the Department of Statistics of the Central Bank. What I particularly want to stress is that the good part of this report and the work, the work of the Central Bank itself in 2010 was a good part and a floor, to say, by the influence, that is, by the engagement of extremely competent people, by politically unrecognizable members of the Governing Council. Let me mention colleagues, members of the Central Bank Management Board, colleagues of Radomir Božić, colleagues of Žarković, Šain, Čaušević and, of course, Governor Kozarić, all Doctors of economic sciences whose work in the Governing Council and everything that followed in other institutions related to the Administrative Council in terms of jurisdiction resulted in an extremely favourable, to say, an ambience... marked by the Bosnian hergic economy. Why do I want to point this out in particular? I just want to remind you of the effects of the economic crisis. The first institution to react both on time and adequately within the framework of the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy was the Central Bank. By increasing their liquidity moves of the entire banking sector, which included deposits in the banking system and a total of 71 banking systems were in one way in conditions that were particularly difficult and could be particularly difficult for bh. The economy and the results, however, satisfactorily. Secondly, I would also like to mention that in conditions where the European economy, in particular the EU economy, or the euro area, is characterised by turbulence, which are not yet in some final phase and to say at the end of some point, given the case of Greece, Italy, or so on. BIS countries, to preserve in such conditions of a unstable euro stability of the currency board whose currency is tied to the euro, and in particular to make profit in terms of making a portfolio of the Central Bank in such a way that a good part of the reserve is placed on the banking system in Western European countries, i.e. in the countries of the euro zone, plus Switzerland and that even profit in such conditions, is indeed an extraordinary success. And here, let me also mention why this is particularly important to us. I just want to remind you that monetary stability is a presumption of overall economic stability, that any collapse in the monetary sector violates all other segments both in the real sector and in other areas of the financial sector and in the foreign sector, etc. But what I especially want to stress, given the limitations that the currency board has, an item that especially preys on foreign exchange reserves. What is particularly true in the context and the currency of the board: net foreign exchange reserves, which according to the rules of the currency board must at all times cover monetary obligations in conversion marks which, as it stands, make up banknotes, coins, etc., and balances of reserves in commercial banks, i.e. commercial banks at the Central Bank and other deposits after the Central Bank's sighting. I would like to particularly and apostrophe the success of the Administrative Council by approving guidelines to the Investment Committee, which operates within these guidelines and which sets out operational rules for the Banking Department, made in these turbulent times an exceptional result, to mention only specifically, by managing foreign reserves. Otherwise, a portfolio of foreign exchange reserves which is primarily exposed to financial risks, thinking primarily of credit, market and liquidity risks, in such conditions as the Central Bank, i.e. a complete package of institutionally designed one portfolio that it has met, to say, and to say least of all, only satisfied, the conditions in which the Central Bank operates which has limited instruments. Otherwise, I have witnessed many years of good reports about the Central Bank's business and well-conceived reports, but this time really deserves that perhaps the only institution in BiH that has managed to preserve monetary stability in these truly turbulent times, not only preserves but also in one special way, may also serve as an example to other central banks, perhaps especially in the portfolio of foreign exchange reserves, and in regional and modality to serve perhaps as an example of how it can adequately react in times that currently mark both the world and especially the European economy. I would especially like to emphasise this fact about foreign reserves, given that those who are slightly less aware of the importance of foreign reserves that safeguard overall economic stability through monetary stability often have their eye on foreign reserves. Any threat to foreign reserves would endanger the overall economic stability, not only of the financial sector but also of the real sector, of the economy sector. In addition to particularly mentioning that the way you handled foreign reserves is by placing them partly through an investment portfolio, particularly by apostrophe of the role of securities, i.e. the banking sector of stable economies of the euro 72 zones plus Switzerland, so those securities of five European countries that have 3A credit ratings, and, in addition, by respecting the rules, i.e. by handling, above all, deposits with placement in BIS countries, i.e.... International settlement banks, you've actually managed to achieve an extraordinary result. So much praise. Here, I am speaking to the governor here, but I really didn't happen to mention all these names, from Dr. Christmas, Dr. Žarković, Šain, Čaušević and of course colleagues Kozarić, who have managed to achieve a remarkable result in these times. I think that awareness of what the Central Bank did in 2009 and 2010 is likely to become a little bit later known to all those who do not deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5348	Thank you. The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5349	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say a few words. First of all, I must commend this report, which is very good, correct and comprehensive. It is evident that it is done by these people who are experts and professionals in their work... headed by the governor. I am particularly pleased that from this report, it is my suggestion and suggestion that this report be multiplied and delivered to all institutions, ministries, entities, cantonal, municipalities, etc., because everyone here can draw certain conclusions for themselves. It's a big thing when it comes to the growth of social product, in general, the growth of industrial production or the rates that follow dynamics and movement, both in BiH and in the surrounding countries. From this report, a mass of data can be used in decision-making at all levels. That's very good. In particular, I was also in a conversation with Vice Governor Božić, talking before the start, or a few days before this session, and just some things that weren't clear enough for me, and I realized that the maximum was done and that they were able to save foreign exchange reserves, or to increase their total mass to 245 million, that the liquidity was retained, that all these positive elements were on their side, except for the portion of the profit that was reduced. It is known why it is reduced, because it is better sometimes to be smaller than to risk investing in other institutions and institutions without losing the underlying portfolio. For these reasons, here's to commend this report. It could be seen by other organizations, institutions to deliver. And I, respecting my fellow MPs, am not asking what they are doing in Sarajevo and Mostar, so it is not appropriate to ask what they are doing in the Palace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5350	The word is Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. However, we have a replica before that. I'm sorry. Šemsudin Mehmedović, a replica, then the word Mladen Ivanković. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5351	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my replica refers to my predecessor. I, as an agent, seem to have the right to ask questions and get answers. Whether they're, like, someone likes them or not, that's another question. Therefore, I would ask my fellow MPs not to comment on the questions asked in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5352	The word has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the report by the Central Bank of BiH, which, I hope, is correctly written and correct, speaks in what a very difficult economic situation we are in. The Central Bank itself is said to be operating under the terms of the Currency Committee and it has a mandatory reserve at its disposal as the only instrument of monetary policy. As it has been said here that stability is very important, the monetary stability of one country for all others, however, the instability of the real sector will lead to instability and the macro and monetary sectors, so as this current Council of Ministers can probably remain until the end of the term of office, I appeal that the key policies in the hands of the BiH state, i.e. its legislative and executive authorities, such as fiscal, monetary and external trade. ...we said what she could do and she did it all and we have enough resources in the banks, but the real sector can't pull them out because we're not competitive and... you can't work. A job employment survey that was carried out here, it is said that the working-age population in BiH was 2,597,000 in 2010, inactively 1,439.000 and actively 1,188,000, of which 142,000... 131 employees and 315,000 and 110 unemployed. So, gentlemen, inactive 1,439,000, and inactive are, say, persons over 15 are labourable, and they do not declare themselves to be employed or unemployed. Gentlemen, this is our economic reality. So, the Central Bank of BiH has a role to play, it should stay as it should, however, these other economic policies, such as fiscal and foreign trade, need to be done urgently, if not by our executive authority, then we parliamentarians, if not then I will personally launch the initiative, because we are certainly in a very invisible position, because this political instability, therefore, is also coming to an increase in money on the market, because we have political instability, which we disagree with, and the price of money, the price of money and heights is also causing us incompetence, and incompetence is producing unemployment. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Council of Ministers has been tasked with us Parliamentarians to fix this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5354	The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5355	Thank you very much. So, I believe that the Central Bank is one of the more successful institutions at BiH level, and it functions fully in accordance with the Central Bank Act and successfully carries out the mission it has. So that's why the evidence of the external audits so far, since its draft in '97, is evidence. To this end they gave a positive opinion when it comes to... the professional dimension of the Central Bank's business. It should certainly be noted that the Central Bank also has good relations with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other international institutions. And so far practice has indeed shown that it has been justified to introduce a currency board instrument, or a Currency Board, but that in future, in accordance with the construction of the BiH state, it is likely that there will be a time when we will be able to speak on other monetary policy instruments and the role of the Central Bank. So it is up to us politicians and policy to agree that the Central Bank will take over other functions, to become perhaps one bank of the last resort, that BiH and the Central Bank can also use the rights of the Debt and Public Delegation Act, to be an issuer of, say, commercial records and bonds or an agent, i.e. a guarantee for strategic investment in BiH. And that way we could help the real sector through the Central Bank, exactly what Mr. Lijanović was saying. Maybe to reconsider both one day and the opportunity... so supervisory visions by the Central Bank. But in any case, I think the Central Bank is on the right track and... so the information provided to us in the Central Bank's Annual Report really is a good argument for this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5356	Since there are no more registered MPs, the word is Mr Kemal Kozarić, governor of the BiH Central Bank. I would only ask you, if possible, given that we have a agenda of 48 points, that as far as possible in as summary form of the answers given.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5357	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, it is my honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to answer certain questions today. Perhaps I should have given an opening statement but here, respecting your limited time, it will be enough to answer these questions. The first question of the respected representative Mehmedović Šemsudin is why it is the smaller one. The fact that it is 33 million and it is smaller than in 2009, as the effects of the crisis have of course affected BiH's financial sector, as well as the Central Bank of BiH. Only for example, the average investment funds: the interest we made before the crisis was between 3.5 and 4%, and during the crisis around 1%, which significantly reduced our incomes. 75 On the other hand, honourable Member Danijela Martinović mentioned an external auditor who examined us. KPMG requested the full application of international accounting standards, standard 39, which requires the face-to-face of income and potential costs in the same period of time, so that we had to reduce the result, in fact, to give a real result almost for cca 50 million, and that also affected our financial outcome, but since our law says that we apply international standards, accounting policies say that we have to apply international standards, there was no dilemma that we have to give a real result, because this year would be only a problem for the Central Bank of BiH. I think 33 million was a very good result and it was primarily for our safety. You noticed that we moved our foreign exchange reserves from commercial banks to EU central banks and that we didn't have any fening losses, because I think it's one big success and we even raised our own level of security and it means 3A was a medium where we invested, so only the financial institutions of that rank could have been our partners, so we kept an account, first of all, of safety and less about profit, because we're not, by any means, the definition of a profit organization, although I have to say in the last five years, we've made 630 million profits, of which 318 million were transferred to the state budget and 304 to the capital of the Central Bank of BiH. When it comes to savings, you will see that in the very Financial Report that the operational costs of the Central Bank were 35 million in 2009, in 2010, 32 million, which clearly says that some 3.2 million were savings made, and at the last session of the Central Bank of BiH Governance Council, we have taken measures to cut salaries to all employees by 10%, the Management Board by 18%, the Audit Committee by 22% and the Governor by 38%. When it comes to receiving employees, here I have a list here, I can give to a respected colleague, Mehmedović. Very transparent, so the salary in the Central Bank is an average of 2.540 KM. We have 70% of the employees of high-speed personnel, of which 19 magistrates and nine doctors of science, because we have to say, it's educated and qualified personnel, to protect and not to get into a commercial sector that has twice as much pay. When it comes to my salary, it's 7,240 KM. I'm no longer in charge of membership of the Central Bank Management Board and I'm still a member of the Deposit Agency, where I have 2,600 fees. These are all my receipts because the law prohibits any involvement. And here, you can just look, here I have a view of all the governors in the environment, so my salary is the smallest of all in the environment. I'll let Mr. Mehmedović take a look at that later. As far as our organisation scheme is concerned, I note that we are the institution of all BiH citizens and that our organisational scheme foresees that we are, indeed, deployed in all parts of BiH. And the fact is that we have three main units – in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar – that we have two branches at the Palace and in Brcko and that this branch in the Palace has existed since the start of the Central Bank since '97. A year. It's not true he's got 20 employees, he's got five employees. And maybe at the start of the Central Bank's work there was some political compromise but now there are over 12 branches of commercial banks up there, so this branch has business now, has its own justification for why it's up there. So five employees are currently working in that branch. I must thank Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović for his commendation, and I think we have earned them. As for MP Tomić, I also want to thank him. As for Mr Lijanović, I think it is quite right that the real sector is currently in the most difficult 76th situation and that the 27% unemployment, perhaps the largest in the region, is the problem of all of us sitting here and we working in the financial sector, but above all, the political stability that is the precondition of all new investments because when you look at foreign direct investments, you will see that they fell three times more than they were in 2009, which clearly says that BiH does not now have an ambience that should be for some new investments. As for the honourable Member Danijela Martinović, she spoke of some new functions of the Central Bank that have some other classical central banks, of course, the Central Bank has its own law, you are the ones who pass the laws. If conditions and consensus are created politically to extend our mandate, I think we are ready and we have the capacity to meet those expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5358	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 24th agenda. Moving to the 25th point of the agenda: Ad. 25. Financial reports from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01-50-19-335/11, of 26. 4. 2011 In accordance with Articles 61 and 64. The BiH Central Bank Act, the BiH Central Bank, submitted a financial report to us on 26.4.2011. The opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission has been given 21. Six. 2011 The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5362	Dear Chairman, first of all, since I don't know, he's interested in whether there's anyone here from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. _________(?) There isn't. Come on, take that off... We are looking, while they are here for this point, if there is a possibility of being provided, because this is not the submission of Parliament. Remove the dot and leave it for next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5364	Okay. We can keep working without a reporter here, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If we vote, of course, we have to vote on it. Do you want to vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5366	Can I just say a sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5367	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5368	The Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council states that at the invitation of the Parliamentary Assembly, and I know that the call went both to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the president or other authorised representative of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council will directly explain the report at the session and answer the questions of the MPs. Since we don't have anyone to answer these questions, I think she's right, and she needs to be taken down.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5369	So, Article 68. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, position (2), reads: 'In the event of the absence of the motionor from the House, the House may decide to lead the debate without the presence of the motionor.' Here you go, colleague Džaferović. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5370	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to behave in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and not to politicise the issue of the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is an independent institution and the regulator of the BiH judiciary system, and by law it informs certain bodies of its work. We as Parliament can receive that information. The Constitutional Commission, unfortunately, refused most of the votes and took note of it, although it took note, I think it is completely illogical, but so did the report. What I can do now, is, I'm not in a group of those who acted that way. Today, when it comes to the agenda, we have made a statement on the agenda, there have been no objections and we have actually made a decision on what the agenda of this session is. That's why I suggest that we continue, to end this agenda point, whether someone comes here or not before the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And once again, this information is acceptable to me. I believe that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has done its job under the law, and if I have to vote, to support this report, I will vote, but it is enough to keep this in mind because that is what we can do as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5371	Mr. Slavko Jovičić called, but I suggest we get this thing straight first. If I may, colleague Jovičić, I would like to put it to the vote, so let's see if we can conduct the debate without the promoter present, as the Rules of Procedure have it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5374	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading Article 20(4) of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Chapter Annual Report and the Annual Budget. The position (4) of Article 20 reads: 'At the invitation of the Parliamentary Assembly or of another body referred to in its previous position, the President or other authorised representative of the Council will directly explain the report and answer the question of the Members of the other body. The debate on the report and conclusions may provide assessments, suggestions and proposals that do not dispute the independence of the Council." I would also like to remind you that the service has informed Mr. Milorad Novković, as president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, that he is attending today's session on this agenda point, 7. Seven. 2011 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5375	Thank you. I think it's clear now. tačka 26. We need to postpone for the next session of the House and re-route the memo, the law is clear. I suggest we move to point 27. Ad. 27. Report on the BiH Law Department's work for the period from 1.1.2010 to 31.12.2010, material number: 01.02-10-387/11, from 20.5.2011 In accordance with the provisions of Article 18. The Law on BiH's Defence, BiH's Attorney General, delivered a report to us on 20.5.2011. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission has been given to 30.6. 2011 The Commission adopted the Report and proposed to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. First for...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5377	So here, we also have an interesting case here that confirms more what is happening within BiH's joint institutions than what is, which should be the subject of an examination within a point like this. I would like to remind you that the Council of Ministers, held at the 154th session, held on 24.6th of this year, has returned the report on the work of the Attorney General, noting that it is necessary to bring 80 between the Advocates and his deputy. Therefore, the Council of Ministers' note points to a poor situation in an institution where there is no co-operation between key people, which means the Advocate and his deputies who, in accordance with the Law on Defence, rotate at that post every 16 months. So let me say a few data that best paints the situation in BiH institutions, and I refer this specifically to those who talk about the equality of the people, about how this is the ultimate goal of not neglecting any of the people. Just for example, this institution will show you what equality looks like. While you can get complete information in the language of Bošnjak, or Bosnian, and Hrvat, as soon as you have access to information on the website www.pbr.gov.ba you can find that it is Serbian unknown. Well, what does that look like? So if I go through Serbian language to the D.A.'s website without access to the Internal Organization Regulation, I have no access to the powers of the D.A., nor to the Rules of Procedure, and the answer that reads is, imagine what the answer is: there is no such answer in this language. I was thinking whether or not I'm dealing with this report that tells me that in my language, I quote, "there's no such thing as no one in this language." It's like Chinese. I remind those who are from the old assembly, we know how we are and how it was otherwise the story about the D.A., but the law has a member of the 10th that says, "In the D.A., they are in equal use of Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian languages and letters of Latin and Cyrillic." Unbelievable! That equal languages are in the law, but they are not truly equal when it comes to the institution in question. Since the Ombudsman is present here, I must say that her greatest responsibility is that all three languages and two letters are not equally respected in the institution she represents and that they are denied that the representatives of the Serb people can look at what is related to the Ombudsman in their own language. So... I think it's your key responsibility because you're obliged to take care of the legality of the institution's work. And one more thing that speaks of the inequality of the people in the Attorney General. Article 5 says "that the assistants and the attorneys are appointed and resolved by the Advocate in accordance with the provisions of the State Service Act", etc., and then down there you see that four Bošnjak, two Hrvat and one Srbin. So, you've heard the national composition, and the law clearly states that equality means people and only if it's what you'd like the attorney general who's currently acting. So the lawyer forgot an important legal provision and thought, therefore, that he could also forget, that he did not respect the opinion of one of the attorneys who was soon taking office from him, so he might not care what the lawyer from another nation even thought about the work of the pravobranilaštvo General. So she should not have sent such a report to either the Council of Ministers or Parliament, if she expected the House's consent to adopt the report. So, what do I suggest? That, similarly done by the Council of Ministers, the 2010 Attorney General's Labour Report is returned to the D.A. for the purpose of reaching agreement between the defence attorneys and BiH deputy defence attorneys. Thank you. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5378	Beriz Belkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5379	First of all, I welcome Mrs. Medina Vilić, BiH Attorney General. I will try to talk about this report, and not to enter the position of analysis and protection of the language and position of my people in the D.A.'s office but, in general, it is obvious that our people don't need to worry about their future while we're here and so closely and closely monitor and protect their interests. So the institution, not common, but BiH's BiH Ombudsman institution in our opinion, the Party for BiH, is one of the most important institutions. Unfortunately, the BiH legislative and executive government's attitude towards this institution has not always been appropriate and we have a situation that the institution is one of the weakest-backed institutions in BiH compared to its importance. So I absolutely support these recommendations that stand here, or in some way signals, I understand signals that come from the D.A. in terms of supporting the status of such a strong and important institution. Here, let me get back to the report. I'm sorry, I see here on page 6 that the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. some of its regional centres etc. use the Attorney's Office services, while other regional centres do not use it. Maybe that should explain a little bit why. I also welcome the thinking of this law-related initiative, i.e. the problem of taking away illegally acquired property. Therefore, the pravobranilaštvo expressed its position on the existing legal system and the effectiveness of confiscation of illegally acquired assets. So there are things we absolutely welcome and support the absolute work of the Attorney General. However, we will not support the 2010 Law Department's work report. Unfortunately, we will not support for the simple reason, on page 20, and the next page, the issue of state property is being addressed. And after explaining the key position of the Attorney General, the protection of state property, the property interests of BiH, the importance of this issue, we are coming into the situation to meet with the data that the Attorney General started a business in early 2010, i.e. at the end of 2009, the books of state assets are subject to pressure, i.e. to the general atmosphere and to the opening of the issue of state property, which, according to us, is absolutely resolved. Therefore, an eminent legal issue enters into the political sphere, in the sphere of agreement, talks and the increasingly frequent use of the terms of distribution. But here's the short one. We had an initiative and she has, as far as I know, passed certain procedures and this parliament will discuss it. So, we asked the pravobranilaštvo for information on why it happened for the D.A. to interrupt the state property book and, despite the fact that all the legal relevant arguments existed. Simply, the procedure was suspended on application, as it says here, by the high representative, or by the act he sent to the pravobranilaštvo General. So, according to a letter of recommendation, the pravobranilaštvo has interrupted our most important job at the moment when it comes to BiH. Of course, other things have started to happen in the meantime, that laws have been passed in entities, that in the entity of the RS on state property status, etc., one word for us is unacceptable to this attitude towards state property as the only connective integral tissue at this time BiH, as a matter of full resolution through the Dayton Agreement, and through the International Treaty on Succession, and through the Constitution of BiH, and judgments, judicial judgments of courts, and here, unfortunately, in an institution that protects, it is an open issue, and the process of 82 agreements, agreements, etc. So, one kind of internal succession or, to be even clearer, the desert procedure as if someone had died, God Bog, the state of BiH. But here's to conclude, that's the only reason we're not going to support this report, and the details and other things about this issue we're going to talk about at the session when this is the agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5380	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. The word has the Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5381	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the House accepts the report on the work of the BiH Attorney General, regardless of what I am in line for those who believe that the Ombudsman could have done more on many issues, but what I think he could have done more and should have done no longer means that I will not support it and that we should not support this report on the work of that institution. I think it's us who need to encourage that institution, to help it, and if there are any problems, then it's looking at us. We can't ask them to do anything if we didn't do it ourselves. We're still the most responsible. When did we sit down and argue here about this state property? About that extra move made by the High Representative, I condemned that move, I say it was a move that was unnecessary. But it was so simple, the High Representative made such a decision as he made, and we can't now consider BiH's Attorney General responsible. I think they're going to do their job normally, on the basis of the International Treaty of Courts, they're in the book, they're stopped, and here I'm saying publicly that I don't think it's right what the High Representative did. That's the kind of move I disagree with. So that's one thing. The second thing, when it comes to what my colleague Majkić was talking about, is the relationship between the Council of Ministers and the Council of Defence, I remember, and so far I have actually participated in the debate on all the reports, all the annual reports that there is BiH's Attorney Generalship and, as far as I know, it has never happened to ask for the consent of both the lawyers and their deputies and all three signatures on the report. For a long time we have had problems with rotation, for a long time there has been no rotation in the BiH Law Department, you know the problem, so when the rotation is done, then the problem is now – they need all three signatures on the report. It didn't take all three signatures before. It wasn't like that before. Earlier reports were adopted here in Parliament without it. Now, when someone else is in the D.A.'s position, you're looking for something completely different, or you're supposed to look for it and then or you don't have to look for it today!? And that really shouldn't be the reason why we will treat this report the way some colleagues and colleagues treat that report. 83 Therefore, I call on the House to accept this report for the past year and to move on. The Attorney General is an important institution. We need to see what, so who are they, I don't think we use the resources that under the law and the support that all BiH institutions need to give to the D.A. I think it should be a real topic and a theme of how to strengthen that institution to help us solve these issues that we have. How many people today know what this property is? What's the difference between ownership and property? We, I think, are banging here as much as Maksim in the division, there's a lot of things in this House. When did we ask these people? It is known that the state has no law on property relations. Two entities have these two laws. I've got both of them on the table there. I've been reading them all this time. And we call it the D.A.'s office. Of course, there are things they should do, but it's up to us. So, first to us, then to them. If we're gonna do it in a row, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5382	The replica has Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5383	If Mr. Džaferović said he thought of us first, he didn't. I'm talking about the BiH Party. And it is not true that the reactions were not immediately followed by this Parliament, asking for urgent entry into the agenda of the debate and obtaining information on the whole situation regarding the letter of the High Representative. We've also reacted to a high representative. Later again here in Parliament. And practically all of 2010 bored both Bog and people by talking about state property, explaining what state property is, etc. Unfortunately, of course, here's how you forget all that. And now Mr. Džaferović says it's all our fault. It's not our fault. It's the gentlemen who didn't realize it at the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5384	Here, we heard an explanation where the culprits are. Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5385	So he's blaming Mr. Džaferović's allegations. I didn't say that the pravobranilaštvo's work report should be signed by three, the D.A. and his two deputies. But they have adopted the report, as it has been so far, at the Kolegijum and agreed to send such a report to Parliament. So now that means the D.A. can say I don't care what two deputies say, I'll write what I think and send without them knowing. So it's a college body. What would it be like to send the chairman of the House of Representatives without the knowledge of two deputies? So every decision they make has to be agreed on at the College. So, don't think you can do this by making a defense attorney, but an institution that rotates every 16 months. And please... consider that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5386	Replica, Šefik Džaferović. And, Madam Attorney, we'll give you our word. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5387	My Koleginica Majkić, I ask nothing more than what is written in the law governing the work of this institution. So nothing, no less. Therefore, if the law says that all three of them need agreement on the report, I ask that the lawyer do so. If the law says otherwise, then I'm asking the D.A. to do so. If the law says anything about languages, that's what I'm asking the D.A. to do. Why, please, why didn't it work so far? We can't break... please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5388	Please, don't leave the scene, you'll all get your word, but.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5389	So all I'm asking is for the law to be respected and I'm asking that the D.A. get up, there's the lady, and to answer these questions. I've also had conversations in preparation for this session. Let us not, people, that we are slowly beginning to conclude that according to the reports (today there have been too many stories on the subject), according to the laws, according to the reports, we are slowly getting the impression that we are starting to refer to reports, according to laws and reports, not in relation to their content and importance, but, unfortunately, the key thing becomes the fact that those... It's a disaster, it's a catastrophic thing if we get into it. And you were talking about it today. You were talking about it today. And all the time it's like that. Minister Nović, you spoke about it today, Minister Nović is a congratulated minister and an honest and good minister. I've talked about it a million times here in Parliament, and I've praised the minister several times. But, please, I vote against the law, not because they came from Minister Nović, but because I think they're wrong. I have the impression that you're acting differently and that your criteria are different and don't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5390	The word has a colleague, Živković, in accordance with Article 70.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5391	The item on the agenda on the 26th, we just had it taken off the agenda because the promoter was not here, which is Mr. Milorad Novaković. Who was there just because Milorad had to take off that agenda point and that we would vote against such a report and not take it into account? Mr. Džaferović, we've passed that agenda point now. What are you talking about, please? Who are you here to honor the story of watching someone's nationality first and then voting on the report? Well, a little while ago, the agenda was about that. Guys, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5392	Since there are no more reported, I am giving my word to Mrs. Medina Vilić, BiH's attorney. Here you go. And I'm going to ask you really for a very large agenda to give answers in short lines. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5393	Yes, yes, and I can't for long, respected representatives, distinguished guests, for the reason that I've only been in this position since 21 April, Mrs. Majkić, according to my knowledge of 21 April this year. So, I'm here for a report last year from a colleague named Željka Klobučar. Of course, she didn't work alone. We did three of us after the rotation. And I want to say the following is that as far as this report on the work of the BiH Law Department is concerned: this work has been done here in the way we have all done it, not us three but all 20 employees. As for Mrs. Majkić's remark regarding the website, I'll take a look at it, I'll take care of it. It will certainly be so in all three languages. However, as far as the election of assistant attorneys is concerned, for the past two months, I have not been able to initiate any procedure for any employment of a civil servant and the like. Therefore, what is the composition of the lawyer's assistant, it is what it is, but it reflects the management of a former lawyer who ruled for five or six years in the D.A. and only last year was an assistant received. So all the other assistants were admitted in the earlier period. Of course, I've just taken action and I'm doing an analysis of national representation, both civil servants and employees, and you'll have the opportunity to be informed of the composition itself, the national structure. And as for harmonising our views on the report itself, I stand firm behind this word, I only go by the power of the argument that no report has ever been adopted by the College. It doesn't even stand in our law, nor does it stand in the Rules of Procedure. The law finely says the report is submitted to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. I played a thankless role, so for these two months, I had a two-time debate at the College, because that's what article 7 tells me. Rules of Procedure, discussing certain issues which are of functional importance for the work of the Ombudsman, so I appreciated that the report was also of functional importance for the work of the Attorney General and it is true that we could not agree. There is no obligation under the Law of Consensation and such practice has never been so far. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5394	Thank you, Mrs. Vilić. I'm closing the debate on the 27th agenda. Moving to the 28th point of the agenda: Ad. 28. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material number: 01,02-37-514/11, of 6. Six. 2011 The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data submitted the Report in accordance with Article 40 (1) point (c) of the Data Protection Act on 6.6.2011. The opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission was given to us in the year 30.6.2011. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed to the House to adopt it. 86 I'm opening a debate on the report. The first for the word is Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5396	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't want us to go over this report. The Constitutional Commission adopted it unanimously, so we all supported it. And I would like to at least send a message to the Bosnian Herzegovina public this way about the importance of the personal data protection issue. This has not come the right way to the Bosnian Herzegovina public so far. We had the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and a few days ago we held a public debate. The people of the Agency were present and I believe this parliament must find ways to affirm the work of this agency, the work of this institution. Because those who were in the public debate could hear what everything was done in BiH with personal data, in which they are used and who are all possible abuses of personal data, starts with a home number, so, I know, all the other data we call personal data. That's why I got up here to say something publicly about this agenda point. I call on the House to support this and to pay more attention to BiH in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5397	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5398	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I was present at a public debate on the grounds of amendments and the addition of the Personal Data Protection Act. We are here today discussing a report on the protection of personal data in BiH, which is essentially a report by the Agency that has jurisdiction and authority to carry out audit and inspection controls on the application, i.e. the implementation of the law, a set of laws tasked with protecting the personal data of the citizens of BiH. BiH as a signator of a series of international agreements and conventions is obliged to provide access to information, means freedom of information, but is also obliged to find measures to protect its citizens from the abuse of personal data. I am afraid that most, including myself, did not have much information about what the Personal Data Protection Agency is doing, which are its responsibilities, and that we were not aware before reading this report and before the public debate that was organised in this case, which was initiated by the Constitutional Commission, i.e. by Džaferović, and thank you very much. I think there should be much, much more information on this. Namely, I will only mention some of the facts in this report and also what we heard during the public debate, not about this report, but about the violation, the mass violation of human rights, so the right to the protection of personal data. We here in BiH have a situation that public enterprises are looking for very often personal data. ... Whatever you're asking some of the competent institutions, they're asking you for a home number, a unique birth number, they're asking for copies of personal 87 documents, which, of course, is all illegal, and we saw it in this report. Something that was indicative, just now everyone was affirmatively manifesting themselves around the CEC report. The CEC is one of the institutions of this country that most violates this law. Namely, all current candidates on the political party lists are on the website, their property records, their signatures, their unique birth numbers, and this creates an unlimited possibility of abuse. So we're all, here we all are, and thousands of other people who have been in the course of these years since there's been, since there's been a website. Is there any other way to provide the public, or access to information? Of course there is and is not, this was not a way to violate the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, or to endanger every citizen. Secondly, and which is very indicative, what I think everyone is meeting, especially those who are looking for a job today, and you have to admit it a lot, is that it's against the law to seek convictions about the conduct of criminal proceedings, beliefs about impunity, etc., which all creates the possibility of us being in bases, in someone's private databases, and to manipulate our personal data. With all this in mind, then we can conclude that this young agency, just started working in half of 2008, plays a very important role in our society, in the democratisation of society. First of all, the following period should be given, and in each report, proposals on what should be... done, then on this topic are organised both in media and in this Parliament, more public debates, to be complemented by many missing documents, a sublegal act that should... exist in the implementation of these laws. That, as it stands somewhere in the report, sanctioning procedures that have not been initiated so far in breach of the provisions of these laws on the protection of personal data. And of course, what everyone needs in democratisation of a society, i.e. A lot of information and a lot of education. I am happy that this law and this report do not apply to the people but to all citizens. So everyone is equally threatened when their rights are violated. And anyone, from this data, anyone can be damaged, using and misused data that are illegally used, can be threatened by every citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5399	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of what I was going to say was said by a respected colleague and colleague Džaferović. But, as counterpart Džaferović said, I think it would be, I will not say incorrectly, but it would not be good to keep the Agency's work quiet, because we believe that this agency is indeed one of the bright points and that an example of this agency should be followed by many agencies. And we're alone the other day... I'm sorry that maybe the other colleagues who didn't have the time didn't attend that public debate, one extremely useful not only but also an educational public debate, where we realized that we ourselves who sit here are quite uninformed, and only then are we with our population. And in that sense, I would just like to say that it may be necessary to work on the Agency's taking on certain activities – what it has again, depends on the financial opportunities of their budget – on the education of the population. Because an ordinary citizen finds it hard to read the laws very often not familiar with 88 of his rights. Anyway, I want to commend the Agency's work and continue in this direction. And others could certainly follow their example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5401	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 28th agenda. Moving to the 29th point of the agenda: Ad. 29. Appointment of the Directors and Two Deputy Directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (Reference for a Commission candidate to elect and monitor the work of the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency), Material No: 01,02-50-1-910-5/10, of 11. 1. 2011 The Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption has established a proposal for a ranking of candidates for the appointment of directors and two deputy directors of the Agency. A 15-name proposal has been delivered to us. I would like to introduce you to Article 13 (1) of the Law on the Agency's Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency states: 'The Director of the Agency shall appoint the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on a proposal for a Special Commission for Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work through a public competition, in accordance with the Law on Ministerial Names and the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of BiH, with checks carried out in the appointment of members of the BiH Council of Ministers.' Article 16 of that Law states: ‘The provisions of this Act relating to the Director of the Agency shall apply also to the Deputy Directors of the Agency.’ I would also like to point out that we have received a letter from the EU Delegation to BiH recommending that the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency be appointed as soon as possible. I'm opening a debate. As rapporteur for counterpart Milorad Živković, the first deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5403	Thank you. I can say that I'm extremely glad that after a year of working on this at all, it's time to finish the job we're committed to, as Mr. Renco Davidi wrote in his letter, meaning the conditional acquisition of visa liberalisation, and I ask you to keep that in mind. So, in case we don't do business today, it could be a matter of visa liberalisation, and we especially appreciate it. 89 The report you received, there is no need to read it, I am here that, as are the other members of this committee, who participated in the work, give explanations or explanations if something is not clear. I would also like to point out that the law did not provide that three members, i.e. the director and two deputies must be from different peoples, but I think it is good to note that the agreement before that was made internally in this parliament, the enlarged college and the College to be Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat. The law did not predict whether to vote individually by candidates, according to the figures listed here in the ranking, or whether this parliament can decide to do so – as I have already said – to be a Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, to be in the package, so it is up to Parliament to determine how this very important thing will end for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5404	I thank my colleague Živković. Šemsudin Mehmedović reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5405	My colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be more effective and effective if we suggested, or if we plead to resolve this matter in the package today, because we would avoid a large number of votes on each candidate. And in order for this to end as soon as possible, I suggest that, however, we make one package of which we will plead, of course, if the Dom agrees. I expected the chairman to inform that we had consultations, so within the ropes of the College, the representatives of the political parties, and that we agreed about the package, only of course depends on whether the House will accept that we are pleading in the package today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5406	I think the exposure of colleagues to Živković was quite clear. He stated that we discussed this both at the College of the House and at the Expansive College of the House. Does anyone else appear within this agenda? If there are no more reports, I will conclude the debate within this agenda. Moving to the 30th item of the agenda: Proposal for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission... _________(?) 90 [[no microphone turned on]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5408	I'm sorry, we haven't finished this part of the agenda at all. So, I don't know what we're going to plead if we haven't made a statement before whether or not we're going to be dealing with this issue in the package. I think we should make a statement now. If we're going to... solve in a package, then I'd have a possible suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5409	It is yours to submit concrete proposals. Anything you suggest we put to the vote. You want to vote now, or when we get to the vote first, we'll call it a day.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5410	I suggested that Dom plead that we settle this issue in the package. So, let's propose one Bošnjak for the director of the Agency and two deputies from the order of the Serbian and Croatian people. If the Dom gave such consent, then they would eventually talk about names.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5411	It's not a dispute, so right now you're proposing that we vote, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5412	Yeah. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5413	Okay...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5414	I don't understand Mr. Mehmedović's suggestion and that's what Mr. Živković was talking about. However, if I understand you well, you say if it is adopted, you have some suggestions, something, right? You see, this commission that did this job has made a ranking list and we have exactly ranked people by some of the criteria that we've done, etc. One very complicated and complex process we've done. And I assure you, 100%, that the process and the process was completely depolitical, no agreements, no... consensus, etc. If you're going to make some combinations now, I'm absolutely against those kinds of approaches, if that's why that package is. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5415	I remind you that my colleague Živković mentioned what was prescribed and what was not the law. This home will democratically decide how to approach. The Commission, whose member you are, a colleague of Belkić, is that right, you are behind 15 people. Whomever of those 15 we choose, that's up to us all in Parliament. So there's no dilemma. My kolega Mehmedović, we in the College understand what you are looking for, but when we come to the vote, we are going to say first whether we will vote on a package or vote individually, and then after that we will vote. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5416	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5417	So we've made that thing clear. Now we move to the 30th point of the agenda: Ad. 30. Proposal for the appointment of one representative of the academic community at the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (Proposal of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes), material number: 01,02-50-1441-6/10, of 30. 8. 2010 30. 8. 2010. The interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly home to implement procedures for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency has submitted a proposal for a candidate for one representative of the academic community, which is Muris Čičić. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the next item of the agenda, the 31st item of the agenda: Ad. 31. Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska (the Council of Ministers material) No 01,02-50-3-1117/10, of 7. Ten. 2010 92
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5422	No, no, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5423	I ask you to prepare for the vote... Please vote now. Who's "for" this conclusion? I find that we have the necessary and general majority and entity majority, so we have adopted this proposal as a conclusion. 'For' voted 31, 'against' 0,'restricted' 0; Federation 20 votes 'yes', RS 11 votes 'yes'. Ad. 34. - 48. Granting consent Since we have reached this conclusion, I am opening a debate on the agenda points from the 34th point of the agenda until the 48th point of the agenda. Is anyone answering for a discussion? The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5425	It's just, given the huge number of points, I don't think it's the right thing to do without a debate. I picked up, just like some of the speakers before me, that not just a kick goes by one, in my opinion, a rather significant point. That's number 47. It is about giving consent to ratification of the Faculty Protocol under the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. I think it is indeed an extremely important thing and I would like of course to give my support to giving consent to the ratification of this Faculty Protocol, which was adopted in December 2008 in the UN, and following an act of the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which, if I am not mistaken, was adopted recently, somewhere in '61. years, also at level...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5426	No microphone 94 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5427	'66. year, thank you, colleague Kunić. Since this International Pact, which is in some way incorporated into the BiH constitutional system... because it is contained in the aneks to the Constitution of BiH as one of the international agreements to which the Constitution of BiH is referred, and also the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, and since the International Pact in its article first has one very important formulation which, in my opinion, is crucial for BiH as a country of three equal, sovereign and constitutional peoples, which is, of course, going to have to paraphrasise, I did not bring the relevant document, so in the article first 'All peoples have the right to self-determination', the second 'The foundations of this right are free to regulate their political, economic and cultural development'. Therefore, because of the crucial and important importance of this International Pact, I absolutely support the ratification of the Faculty Protocol, which provides for the establishment of the 'Committee for Economic, Cultural and Social Affairs' and in some ways enables the further work to be done on the basis of these views in the International Pact on Economic, Cultural and Social Rights. So that the International Pact is not only a list of beautiful desires but that relations are governed by the International Pact so that there is no revote of the people, that others do not determine its representatives, but that, based on the rights of the people to self-determination, I can make the necessary decisions. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5428	Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding a debate on points 34 to 48 of the agenda. The House of Representatives' College agreed, so at 17:30 we have a vote, until then here to prepare yourselves. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to take your seats to join the vote. We move to the vote, we go to the 1st point of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd and 4th session of the House of Representatives I propose that we vote on the adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session with the remarks of MP Azra Hadžiahmetović, and we could vote in the package and vote on the adoption of the minutes from the 4th session. Here, so we're voting on these two minutes as a whole. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! 95 I find that we have the general majority, that we have the necessary entity majority: 31 'for', one 'against', 0'remained', of which the Federation 21 'for', 0 'against', 0'remained'; 10 'for' from the RS. So we have the required majority. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of a judicial examination in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) So we vote on the Proposal for a Law in the Second Reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority and the necessary entity majority and that we adopted the draft law in the second reading, with the amendments to the Commission report. We move to item 4 of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Registration of Legal Persons who establish the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in a Second Reading, with amendments to the Commission Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary entity majority and that we have adopted the draft law in the second reading, with the amendments to the Commission report. We now move to the 5th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary entity majority and that we have adopted the bill in the second reading. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the seal of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in a second reading, with an amendment from the Commission Report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority and that we have the necessary entity majority and that we have adopted the draft law in the second reading, with the amendment from the Commission report. 96 We move to the 7th item of the agenda: The draft law supplementing the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) Voting on the conclusion of Parliament Mirsad Đugum: 'It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the issue of mandatory use of the name of BiH in the inscriptions of state bodies, entity bodies, cantons, cities and municipalities, public enterprises and other institutions that exercise public authority and to report to the House of Representatives. And if this issue is not properly regulated, it will be submitted for one of the next sessions to the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Use and Protection of the Name of BiH to regulate this issue." So first we vote on this conclusion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I realize we have the necessary general majority, but we don't have the necessary entity majority. We're moving on to the collapsing at the College. We're going to vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. You know how we vote in the second round. Vote, now! I find this conclusion necessary.. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5434	And the name BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5435	And the name, 'in the name of BiH', is what it says here. Okay. Please prepare to vote. So we are voting on this conclusion by MP Milorad Živković. Vote, now! This conclusion was voted 17 against 16, but we don't have an entity majority. _________(?) 98 [[no microphone turned on]] So we repeat the vote at the request of the SDA Club. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that the proposal for a conclusion has received the necessary general majority, however, there is no entity majority. We're crossing... Shall we get the alignment right in the second round? We're going to vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that this conclusion has been adopted and then we do not vote on the bill's proposal in the second reading. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Forced Payment of Indirect Taxes (second reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in the Second Reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority and the necessary entity majority and that we adopted the bill in the second reading. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH-level judicial and prosecutorial institutions (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in the Second Reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I'm realizing that we have the necessary general majority, that we don't have the necessary entity majority. We're moving on to the collapsing at the College. We're going to vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have two-thirds of the vote 'against' from the RS and that the bill has not received the necessary majority. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: The draft law on working days at the time of BiH's religious holidays, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission 99 Here, I remind you, therefore, we are voting on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary and entityal majority, so we have adopted a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission and the bill has been rejected. We move to item 12 of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in First Reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority and entity majority and that we adopted the bill in the first reading. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the bill of law has the necessary general majority, there is no necessary entity majority. We're moving on to the collapsing at the College. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5441	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5442	There's nothing, let's go to the vote, here's a colleague of Živković's doing business. I agree, if you won't, we'll get right over it so we don't get complicated. Only in the second round of the Bill on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for 2011 in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the bill has not received the necessary entity majority from the RS. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: The Commission's report on BiH institutions and international obligations for 2011, which reads: 'The House of Representatives of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly mandates the Council of Ministers to, after the adoption of the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2011, the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the treatment and respect for human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the BiH Criminal Procedure Court of BiH have been carried out, by foreign courts for the acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by the International Treaty of which the BiH Signer or other court is in accordance with BiH law, from the budget reserve approved by the 14_5,000_M's budget fund. [[no microphone turned on]] That's what you should have said before. It's pointless. We've adopted the agenda, we've already voted once, this is about the second round of voting. I ask you to conduct the procedure and keep an eye on the agenda and on the previous votes that...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5444	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5445	Well, if you agree, here, are you all okay with us not voting this? 103 [[Common discussion]] That's right. So there is a general agreement in the House of Representatives that this is now unconditionally put to the vote. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the Commission's effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions (first reading) We vote in the second round on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we do not have the necessary majority of the RS entity and that we have not adopted this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the BiH institutions in the first reading. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the Commission's effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH (first reading) votes in the second round on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we do not have the necessary entity majority for this bill. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Commission's opinion on the Transport and Communication Commission's proposal for a law on travel documents for Bosnia and Herzegovina Glasamo in the second round on the opinion of the Transport and Communication Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Travel Documents of BiH. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that "for" a negative opinion voted...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5447	Wait, this is round two, this isn't good. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5448	It was supposed to be 19 from the Federation to adopt the Opinion, which means the Law falls, this is how Opinion was not adopted and it was returned to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5449	And where are the votes 'against'?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5450	So there's no "against" vote. Had there been a 'no' vote, opinion would have been adopted. As not 19 of the Federation were 'against', the opinion returns to the Commission because it is the second round of voting. If you want to repeat the vote, it's not a problem, it's just such an interpretation. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5451	Wait a minute, when we voted, I said we were voting in the second round on the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission. Since we've accepted negative opinion, this law has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5452	No, no, it's wrong. At the time, it wasn't enough from the Federation to be "for" that negative opinion and that's why it went to the second round of voting. There are now no 19 votes 'against', so back to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5453	Mr. Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5454	So, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we are voting in the second round for the Commission's negative opinion and the results are, here, we will now wait for them: 28 'for', 17 from the Federation, 11 from the RS. So we have here, in the second round, we have a majority, and one and the other, and there is no 'against' of that negative opinion of not a single majority of entities and negative opinion is adopted. You cannot draw a different conclusion. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5455	It's a little complicated, let's try and work this out. So, at the last session when we voted on negative opinion, there wasn't enough votes for the Federation of BiH 105 for that negative opinion, as I recall. In the second round of voting there should have been 'against' 19 votes at least from the Federation, or 10 from the RS to accept that negative opinion. In this case, in my opinion, it should be returned to the Commission. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5456	... asked the secretary to take a fine Rules of Procedure, has a clear provision of business, the secretary has interpreted this several times. So, in the second round of voting... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5457	Comrade Džaferović, please finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5458	Well, let me tell you something, I once said, so here it must be shown, it's quite clear that there must be more than two-thirds of the vote 'against', at least from one entity that something didn't pass. I don't see it here, and then it's over. It's a very clear thing. And, Mr. Belkić, I've only stood up with good intentions to help, and don't act like that to me anymore. I'm begging you don't do that anymore. Here, I'll stop this time...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5459	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5460	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5461	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5462	I'm an agent and I know what my job is. When I get my word, don't get your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5463	I now call on dom Secretary Branka Todorović to give her further clarification. Can I have your attention? 106
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5464	You got me a little confused, so I forgot... I think we should vote as it says in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I think Mr. Džaferović is on the right track, at least that's my opinion. So in this case we vote, in the first round we voted on the Commission's opinion and there was no entity agreement, and now we go to the second round: we vote on the Commission's opinion. By deciding the votes 'against', there must be 'against' votes to then be determined that the opinion has not been accepted and that it is returning to the Commission. That's my opinion. I think I'm absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5465	I would like to thank the Secretary of the House of Representatives. So my initial finding, before all these interventions, was correct. So we had the necessary majority for negative opinion, the bill was rejected. That's how I get it. Here's the SNSD Club looking for us to vote again, right? They have the right to do that. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We vote again in the second round on the Commission's opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5472	Majkić's got a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5473	There's a conclusion, I'll just call the secretary for you to read this conclusion. He came at the end of the session so we couldn't get him in. Here you go. Please listen to this conclusion. First we vote on this conclusion and then the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5474	He arrived late, I'm sorry, this conclusion, so we couldn't cororrate him into a reminder. The conclusion proposed by our MP Dušanka Majkić reads: "The report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2010 will be returned to the D.A. in order to achieve agreement between the defence attorneys and the deputy defence attorney." 109
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5475	You've heard this conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! This conclusion, then, first. I find this conclusion has been given to the general majority required. There is no necessary entity majority. We're moving on to the collapsing at the College. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 28th item of the agenda: The 2010 report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina Glasmo on the adoption of the Report. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have adopted the report, that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority. We move to the 29th item of the agenda: The appointment of the directors and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency (the Commission's proposal for a candidate for selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency) I would like to remind all respected colleagues and colleagues that we have already agreed that we will first declare how we will vote, and after that we will hold a vote. During the debate there was agreement, i.e. the first proposal to vote in the package on the Director and two deputies. That's why I'm going to put this motion to a vote first. If he doesn't get the necessary majority, then we know what we're gonna do. First, we vote on whether or not the package will make a statement about the director and his two deputies. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find this proposal has been given to both the general and the entity majority. Now I'm opening up the possibility to propose within this package that are names. Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović is the first to appear for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5476	So here, as I have announced, we have held consultations in the College of the House and the Expansive College and on the basis of the rankings provided in the materials I propose that the package be the following candidates: Sead Lisak be the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency; that the first 110 deputy be Dragan Slipac and that the second deputy be Sreto Pekić. It's a harmonised package among most political parties... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5477	So this is a proposal for a package proposed by Mr Mehmedović on behalf of most of the political parties that participated in the alignment of this package. Mr. Belkić is proposed to propose another package. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5478	I'm not suggesting, I'm calling to suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5479	Thank you for making this more specific.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5480	There's no consultation of political parties here, but here's... consultation... College or political parties. I didn't quite get it. So, I suggest that I simplify, I suggest those who get the most points from this commission that the law has provided for such things. So these are: Ramiz Huremagić, Milan Krulj and Blanka Benković. So these are people from three people with the highest number of points received from this commission. There was no consultation or agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5481	Mr. Mehmedović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5482	Look, if we were to go along with this logic proposed by distinguished counterpart Belkić, then all three candidates in this package would be of the order of the Bosniak people, which would not be exactly an indication that we are dealing with this very important institution that is conditional on an extension of the visa-free regime of BiH. If we're already walking this ranking, then, in order not to waste time, to vote on each candidate individually on the ranking list, then we'd better make a statement about this package which, by my estimate, can get most of it, both entity and general. So here's what I suggest we say first about the package. And if he doesn't get most of it, then let's vote individually on each one. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5483	... You said I suggested it. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5484	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5485	I'm sorry, I said names if you were listening. I was talking about names. I propose Ramiz Huremagić of the Bosniak people – with the largest number of votes when it comes to candidates from the Bosniak people, I assume... Furthermore, we propose Milan Krulj of the Serb people's order who also received the most votes from candidates from the Serb people, I suppose, and Blanka Benković, who also received the most votes from the Croatian people. So, not three Bošnjak, so by name, as you suggested by name and last name, I suggest. These are the people most hit by this commission established by the Corruption Prevention Act. So please vote on this as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-07-14-0.u5486	I thank Mr. Belkić. I first find that Dom has declared that he will vote on the packages. I find two packages have been proposed to this moment. One package proposed by Mr Mehmedović, which was agreed on behalf of most of the parties here, and another package proposed by Mr Belkić. We are voting on the first proposal of colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. He suggests that the Agency's director be appointed Sead Lisak, Deputy Director Dragan Slipac and other deputy directors or only Deputy Director Sreto Pekić. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that there is a general majority and that we have a majority and a half of entities. I find that the House of Representatives has chosen the Director and two Deputy Directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency to move to the 30th Point of the Agenda: Proposal for the appointment of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes) We vote on the appointment of Muris Čičić as the representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary entity majority and that the House of Representatives appointed Muris Čičić as the representative of the academic community in this commission. We move to the 31st point of the agenda: 112 Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska (the Council of Ministers material) We vote on the appointment of Milorad Tuševljak as a member of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary entity majority and that we have chosen Mr Milorad Tuševljak as a member of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska. We move to the 32nd item of the agenda: Resolution and appointment of a member of the delegation in the Central European Initiative (CEI) from the House of Representatives: a) Dragan Čović (HDZ BiH) appointed a member of the CEI delegation at the 2nd session of the House of Representatives, held 9. Six. In 2011, duties are resolved due to the resignation of MPs in the House of Representatives, b) Zvonko Jurišić (HSP) is hereby appointed a member of the CEI delegation, and I propose that we vote both in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives has resolved Dragan Čović in this delegation in CEI and voted on the appointment of Zvonko Jurišić as a member of the CEI delegation. We move to the 33rd item of the agenda: Resolution and appointment of a member of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development: (a) Petar Kunić is relieved of the duties of a member of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, (b) Nikola Špirić is appointed member of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development and I propose that we vote in the package here. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives has relieved members of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development Petar Kunić and voted on the appointment of Nikola Špirić as a member of the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development. We're going from the 34th point of the agenda to 48th and 48th. – ratifications of the agreement 113 I will first conclude the vote to declare this in the package, and after that, if we agree to this conclusion, then also the ratification of the agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that this conclusion has received the necessary general and entity majority and that the House of Representatives has decided to declare in the package all points 34 to 48, so to ratify all these agreements. I call on all MPs to now declare the ratification of all these agreements. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, that we have the necessary entity majority and that the House of Representatives has ratified all agreements between 34th and 48th of the agenda. This concludes the work of the 5th session of the House of Representatives. Tomorrow at 10.00 we begin with the 6th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you again for your constructive contribution to the work of today's session. The seat's finished at 6:45.
