ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4938	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. I find that 36 MPs are present at the session. As you know, we received a decision by the BiH Presidency on the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman on Wednesday (June 15th) 2011. The Commission's opinion on the election of the BiH Council of Ministers on Slave Kukić's candidacy for the presidency of the BiH Council of Ministers was given on 24 June 2011, after which we immediately called today's session as a College. So today's session has only one item on the agenda, which is – Confirming the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Since, here we have one reported, Mr. Drago Kalabić in connection with the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I do not have a proposal to change the agenda, but I do have one perhaps business question for the Kolegijum, i.e. for the chairman – will the Proposer appear today at the House session. And we have been having a problem with the BiH presidency for a long time that doesn't appear in this room, not even when one point is the only point and when they are authorised by the promoters. I wonder if they're getting regular calls. Invite them in? And is there any feedback on why the BiH Presidency treats the Parliamentary Assembly this way? Has the Presidency given up on this state and on the issues that are being discussed in this House and on what does it behave like this? Or are the presidency's proposals so problematic, so bad that they don't have the courage to face elected representatives in Parliament and to face arguments and to defend their proposals? I really don't understand what this is about because we have a practice in parliamentary committees to take down the agenda points when there are no proposings. We are sometimes incorrect to the Council of Ministers when we cannot come out of obligation for simple reasons, here is a procedural reason to remove the agenda because one of them has not arrived, because it is a sign of both relationships and respect for work and everything else. I don't know if you can give that answer today, but I think this House of Representatives deserves an answer to this question in some future period. If they're a state to themselves, if they have some obstacles interests, it'd be only our turn to be told, that we're not still burdening ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4940	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. The replica within the framework, therefore, was reported by Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4941	The Honorable Chairman, co-chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm actually not a classic replica just one explanation. Since I didn't quite understand what Mr. Kalabić's proposal was from this discussion, and that, in fact, citing an example from the commission's work that when there's no proposing to take off the agenda, I didn't realize if he suggested that we take this point off the agenda. If he doesn't suggest, might he suggest we call the promoter, take a break while the promoter shows up in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4942	Mr. Kalabić came forward for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4943	I completely understood the question of my colleagues, Magazinović, and I may have needs, so to clarify. So I asked if the chairman of Parliament could clarify the irresponsible behaviour of the Presidency. It is a humiliating attitude towards this Parliament, whether it has any information that can explain it to us. Here, I'm in some doubt, either today, or question for the next session. So that's just my question, because I don't understand. We had very important contracts last time, not even associates, not counselors, nobody shows up. We had a need to ask some things, I think procedures are such known who's the promoter and everyone has some obligations or I don't understand what this is about. Why does the State Presidency avoid this building and I'm not gonna stick to it today, we'd probably open up some other kind of debate, and if one of the next sessions can get an answer to that question. Do we, if we're in some kind of conflict, whether we have any problems, or logistics or I don't know, maybe we need a special entry, a special procedure, what to do. But it would be our turn to offer both the public and everyone the answer to the question of what's going on. It's just a request for information. If he can't do it today, he can do it for one of the next sessions. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4944	Before we continue with the list of those who applied for the discussion to give a direct question a clear and concrete answer. What was up to the chairman's House of Representatives, Colleges and professional services was completed neatly and in time. So, all members of the BiH presidency received an orderly invitation for today's House of Representatives session. The next word came from MP Mladen Bosić. But I'm really asking you to try to focus on determining the agenda. We have a point that was offered both by the College and the Expansive College. We also had an extended college session before this. If there are any concrete suggestions, please present them. Here you go, Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4945	Well, there's a concrete suggestion. And I join the demands to ensure the presence of the Bureau's proposings and we suggest a half-hour break for you to get in touch with the Presidency and make sure someone comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4946	At the request of the SDS MPs' club, I'm giving a 30-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the work of the 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. At the request of the SDS Club, we gave a 30-minute break. Here, I now ask the representative, or president of the SDS Club, to explain his request.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4948	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'd like to appeal to Article 171. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, which says – At the request of the BiH House, it expresses views and reports to the House on issues that fall within its jurisdiction. Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Presidency for the Prime Minister's Council and no one from the Bureau has accepted to come to this session and explain the presidency's position. It means no one from the Bureau is behind this proposed candidate. And we suggest that if the candidate does not want to withdraw his candidacy, at least not expose the exposés, we should approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4949	Thank you, Mr. Bosić. So let us remind again of today's 4th session of the House of Representatives, all members of the BiH Presidency are invited. Today, we find there are no members of the BiH presidency present. Meanwhile, in the break, I learned from the BiH presidency's office, Mr Nebojša Radmanović, that he is currently officially absent and in Strasbourg. 4 I will now invite the Secretary of the House of Representatives, Mrs Branka Todorović, to read to us first and foremost Article 142 concerning this issue of the committee of the Chair of the Council of Ministers and to read to us Article 68. A Rules of Procedure that Decidently speaks of who he is and when he is obliged to attend the sessions of the House. Here you go, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4950	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am reading the provision of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure, so that's one chapter -- approval of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. In position 1, says – kada the dom receives a Decision appointing the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, the College shall convene a session in accordance with Article 5.4. The BiH Constitution. Article 2 – After the chairman reads the Decision appointed, it is up to him to explain his political agenda on what will be discussed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This next position concerns other members of the Council of Ministers and is not necessarily read. I also read the provision of article 68. Rules of Procedure. The chapter concerns – The presence of members of the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, promoters and official guests. Item 1 says – Members of the Bureau can, and members of the Council of Ministers have the right and the duty to participate in the House's meetings. Article 2 – In the event of the absence of the motionor from the House, the House may decide to conduct the debate without the presence of the promoter. This attitude 3. I think it is irrelevant, but since I am called, attitude 3 says – Official guests invited by the chairman may participate in the work of the session in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4951	Thank you, Secretary Home. So Article 68 is very clear. It says that members of the BiH presidency can, and members of the BiH Council of Ministers have the right and the duty to participate in the House's meetings. I remind my fellow Members and fellow Members that we are establishing the agenda of this session and I am asking for some concrete proposal on the agenda, given that we have found and provided the answer to these questions which we can give at this time. If there are no more discussions on the agenda, I will conclude that the following 5 Agenda 1 has been adopted for the 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives. Confirmation of appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Chairman We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. I would like to remind you that the procedure for the approval of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers is regulated by Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of this House. I also remind you that Article 5(4). The BiH Constitution prescribes a way to appoint the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers. You have received the text of the Rules of Procedure of this House as well as the text of the Constitution of BiH, so I don't think there is any need to repeat these provisions now. In accordance with Article 2(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives are my duty to read the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. "On the basis of Article 5.4. The Constitution of BiH, Article 9(1). Law on Council of Ministers or Council of Ministers of BiH and Article 43(1) Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Presidency, the BiH Presidency delivered the OD L U K U O at the 9th emergency session held on 14 June 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4953	BiH Article 1.. Slavo Kukić is appointed BiH's chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Article 2 This Decision will be forwarded to the Commission for the preparation of the election of the Council of Ministers of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives in the follow-up procedure. Article 3 This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4954	BiH Nebojša Radmanović" In line with the provision previously made, I give the word to Mr. Slav Kukić to present his political programme. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4955	I thank Mr. Kukić for the political programme presented. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the political programme of candidates appointed to the BiH Council of Ministers. I would like to inform you now that, in accordance with the conclusion of the House of Representatives College, we have agreed to take a 30-minute break now so that political clubs, political parties clubs here and clubs remain prepared to discuss this political programme and I now call the session of the Extended College in Hall 2/II. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the 4th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. We have just heard the programme of candidates appointed as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and before we open a debate on this agenda, I would like to remind you of the following. So, on 23 June 2011, the Commission of the House of Representatives for Elections of the Council of Ministers held its session and discussed all available information in accordance with the Rules of Procedure regarding the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. This Commission has worked in accordance with Rule 46a of the Rules of Procedure of the House and has submitted a recommendation. As I have cited, the Commission's opinion on preparing the BiH Council of Ministers' election on Slave Kukić's candidacy to serve as BiH's chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers was given on 24 June 2011. The commission did not support Slave Kukić's candidacy, or made no recommendation to the House of Representatives for his appointment as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I am opening the debate and calling on all MPs to present our views, opinions and views within this point of the agenda in a democratic and tolerance debate. Here you go. The first to speak was SDP MP and SDP Club chairman Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4957	Thank you, Chairman. At the very beginning, I want to congratulate Mr. slaviti Kukić on whose quality, specificity and comprehensiveness, I hope, no one in this room can dispute. The vision of the Council of Ministers presented by Mr. Kukić, the Council of Ministers as a team that should uniquely access the resolution of accumulated, open problems, is the vision of a man who wants BiH well. The time lost since the election to this day is certainly beyond us, but today we have a chance for a new beginning and an opportunity to at least try to catch up on the lost. Of course, like everything else, it all depends on good political will. In this whole story, we should be aware that there are also those political forces that are in the interest of not forming a new Council of Ministers, to remain the Council of Ministers in the technical mandate. We in the SDP think it's not good. But we also think it's correct that those who think it come out and say it in public. The election process of the Council of Ministers was followed by a series of events - political consensus, disagreements, political dialogue, lack of dialogue, etc. Whatever the outcome of the vote today is in the SDP, we feel that we need to get out of all of this, all of us together, lessons, both from those positive things that have been going on and on and on the negative ones. Denialing the possibility of dialogue as a supreme democratic achievement is something that, regardless of our political views, should concern us all. The individual and party relationship towards the candidate for the council of directors was an illustration, not of the personal relationship, but of the relations towards BiH institutions. However, there were also a number of positive things in everything that was going on in the election of the Council of Ministers. First of all, those who wanted to conduct dialogue with Mr. Kukić led him, not on any positions they should have received in this new council of ministers' assembly, but on his programme. Those who are willing to discuss the program are currently more in this distinguished House and that is something that is positive, if we need to look for positive things from the whole process. Another positive thing is that parties based in RS entered the process and found their position politically in regulating relations with the Federation. Although there are some who feel that it is not good for us in the SDP, we consider it a positive political achievement. Why? Well, this is the state of all of us. And entities are entities of all of us, and cantons, and cities, and municipalities, and villages. And we all need to be together, and we have the right to do this, to take care of political and all other relations, both in BiH institutions and in the institutions of the Federation, RS, but also in lower levels of government. Reflecting on the possible outcome of the vote, while listening to Mr Kukić's programme, I was actually thinking about who are the people sitting in this House who can vote against such a programme, against the concrete work of the Council of Ministers, against the institutional equality of all constituent peoples, others and all citizens. Who can be against the restoration of dialogue between the peoples and the common future, who can be against the European and NATO pathways, economic recovery, social justice, an account with injustice, an increase in functionality, and not to list all segments of the programme that Mr. Kukić has presented. In the end, Mr. Slavo Kukić has shown through his exposure that he is aware of the overall situation in BiH, that he is aware of all our weaknesses but also the chances and opportunities for BiH and we in SDP 17 think that he is definitely a competent man, a man who has the energy and the will to contribute in an unselfish way to make the Council of Ministers an engine, a driver of some new and better relations within BiH and therefore will have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4958	Thank you, Saša Magazinović. The next word came from Asim Sarajlić, president of the SDA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4959	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDA Club, I would just like to say that, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr slaviti Kukić on the exhibition and on his programme, and to say that the SDA, or its Club here in this House, supports Mr Slava Kukić as the mandate proposed by the BiH Presidency to this House, and that we will do our utmost to make sure that all the positions he has set in his exhibition finally and we are at the Parliamentary House of BiH. Slavo Kukić is a legitimate, competent and professional man who can successfully lead the Council of Ministers of BiH and will therefore support Mr slava Kukić for this honorable duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4960	Thank you, Mr. Sarajlić. The word has the president of the Club of MPs, i.e. here we have the first application for replica, Mr. Beriz Belkić. .../Shortly interrupted recording... I just want to point to the following. I'm going to ask you to stick to article 70. The Rules of Procedure and yes, when you report for a replica, specify exactly which quote is incorrect or, if it is, a business provision. Mr. Belkić, this absolutely does not apply to you, so at the beginning of the debate, we immediately have that in mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4961	Why wouldn't it apply to me? Of course, it applies to everyone. I know the Rules of Procedure and I'll stick to it. So, without ambition absolutely to complicate the situation and agree and I will contribute to this being democratic, tolerance, etc., but I do not like it, Mr Magazinović says this way – who can be against such a programme. So they can be people, they can be MPs, but in what way it's said, they kind of disqualify the others. And I'd like to pray that we avoid that kind of thing. So I absolutely understand the support of the motionor, I understand the support of the parties and so on, but I don't understand the hint of disqualification of those who don't accept that kind of program, those who think otherwise and so on. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4962	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. The word has been made by the president of the HDZ Parliament Club, Mr. Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4963	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Short correction, I'm not the president of the Advocacy Club. I'm the vice president of the Advocacy Club. The president of the Club of Representatives is a respected representative of Mate Franjičević. Here, we have today's decision to appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency Decision, and I will limit myself to the debate on the Decision. How much the body of the institutions that made this Decision holds to its own decision has proved to be coming here today, trying to convince us of the correctness of this decision. They needed to offer both exposures and programmes and platforms and convince them that when they make a decision like this, they should convince us that they have made a good decision for BiH, and for the institutional equality of all three constituent peoples, and for the benefit of every citizen, and for strengthening the culture of dialogue, and for strengthening mutual relations, mutual trust, respect, etc. However, it is obvious, and I didn't expect the presidency to come here today, because the man is too loud, so he obviously doesn't think that this decision is good, but I expected the other two members of the Presidency who, the chairman of the presidency, made this decision, to come and convince us why it was so important for them that on such an important issue in the Presidency that should be the institution of negotiation, understanding, co-ordination and strengthening of mutual trust, they train the current numerical supremacy and prove that BiH should move forward with the policy of re-election. It was never good in this country when such a policy manifested itself, never for anyone, nor for anyone who manifested it, nor for those who were against such a policy. That they are well aware of the harmfulness of such a decision and of the numerous representatives of the international community, who now operate in BiH through various institutions and representing their own countries, the right hand side shows where there is usually no room for all accredited ambassadors to BiH. They also show by their lack of arrival today that such a policy is harmful to BiH. I won't discuss the exposé itself. I'm not even going to discuss the candidate person simply for the simple reason that I think coming to this hall in this way doesn't deserve anyone's support, no matter who it was. The candidate for the Chair of the Council of Ministers, for an institution that should strengthen and develop a lot of what is mentioned today in this exhibition, must be credible that it will indeed represent and must come to this institution in a way that manifests it. Coming here through an institution where, without will, a great will of the Croatian people has been chosen by a member of the Presidency who has neglected to represent the Croatian majority political will of the institution, coming here without respecting and yet harshly trampling out the majority of my people's will, I don't think they are good attributes or recommendations to support any 19 who, regardless of what people he came from, from which entity he came and with what personal references he came from. So I think this session should end as soon as possible and I won't, unlike my colleagues from the SDP, give anyone a lesson about what I think about who votes differently from me. I know how I'm going to vote, and it can be concluded from my debate that I'm going to act as members of the Bureau are acting according to their own decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4964	We continue the debate, but I would like to remind the business provision that we are having a debate today on the political programme that Mr. Slavo Kukić presented. So that's what Rule 142 of our Rules of Procedure says. The next word came from Mr. Drago, or the replica of Mr. Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4965	Mr. President. I ask you to refrain from commenting on the debates of all MPs because you are not legally given it for the right, especially the representatives who stick to the agenda that you have signed. So we have today's agenda to confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers' chairman, and we are not on the agenda to discuss the exposé of anyone. Well, look what you signed, and don't at least correct me on what you have absolutely no right to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4966	Mr. Lozančić, I hope you should be aware of the duties of the chairman of the House of Representatives. Among other things, to emulate the debate and to worry about the application of this Rules of Procedure. If it wasn't like you said I'd quote you now exactly what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Article 142 literally reads – After the chairman reads the Decision appointed, he is given the floor to explain his political programme on what will be discussed. Please, let's just work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Drago Kalabić. Here you go. The president of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4967	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I may be a little inaccessible and I support that you are a little bit of a firmer on these smaller parties so that we from the big parties can speak in peace and a little bit longer and that, I mean, the decision is rational in terms of getting out of this situation. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I must repeat our position that we will not support this candidate today. In the past few days we've explained it in public and I don't need to take a lot of time, but here this House deserves us to repeat some things even though they're already said. Of course we're not going to talk about the program and what's been brought out here today because there are issues before the program, because he's a controversial candidate. 20 Mr. Kukić is a candidate of dangerous intentions and therefore cannot pass in this House of Representatives. Because he accepted to be a candidate on behalf of the BiH presidency and he knows well that it came by revote, because he accepted to be a candidate without a set parliamentary majority and because he accepted to be a candidate while at the same time being challenged by the elected, most elected political representatives of the two nations in BiH. One who dares and accepts to seek support in this way is not sure that he is building good relations in BiH. So, BiH is a complex state, fortunately or unfortunately as you will, and it sees some diversity as an advantage to this complexity, some as a problem, but unlike other countries, it always has a need to respect the procedure and to determine and say that this is the state of two entities and that this is the state of three constituent nations. And when he makes sure that those principles are respected, then he can move on. Here it is harshly neglected, in a very rough way and sent a message that there are people in this country who have ambition in such a way to rule BiH. In a way, in communication and the rest, and that was our position because we think it is very irresponsible, to show the will because it could now be asked whether someone who came after the vote, if someone who does not have the support of the political representatives of the two nations has the intention to put together a council of ministers from only one people if they get support. Why would someone who has broken the principles so far not continue to violate them if they were supported by such a thing because I see that he did not pay attention to the observations, that this is not a good way to go to BiH as it comes to, the chairman of the Council of Ministers in BiH is a very important position and everyone is interested in all aspects of that position – and approaches and attitudes. We have seen, again I say we have nothing against Mr Kukić, his art and the acceptance of this game in the interest of something else it is now his personal position and I do not want to comment on it, but from the session of the Commission I will only say one detail that the HDZ representative is on his question – how he looks at the solution of this issue and the problems of Croatian people's inequality Mr Kukić replied that he was a representative in one expert group and that his opinion that one possible solution would be to abolish entity voting in the House of Representatives and possibly certain changes in the way of voting in the House of Peoples and he thinks that he would thus provide equal positions for all three peoples and that it would satisfy and that it was a proposal to resolve him and his team of associates. This was an attitude, of course, to ask the question on behalf of the SNSD – does this mean the abolition of the entity vote, Mr Kukić, in front of the same listeners, that he would not engage in constitutional changes and that he was sending a message to representatives of the Croatian people that this is a rather satisfying situation and that nothing should be changed there, because of course support and representatives from the RS should. We do not think it is for the level of the BiH Parliament, in such a way that I would possibly not comment on it, get support from the same people and with a very, very complex topic that requires a very serious approach from someone who wants to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's just one detail that convinced me at the time that it was a non-serious approach, and I was commenting on it that way. I'm sorry if it bothers anyone, but I think it was because of all these input parameters in this story, of course we couldn't provide it, because dialogue, and that it was required to accept these things as a final act. Of course, we of the SNSD were unable to accept and thus participate in this because we sent a clear message that those behind this are still taking the necessary time to this country, that everyone, who participates in political life in BiH, knew that all parliamentary democracies knew the concept of securing the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary majority who afterwards offered a proposal to the Constitutional Proposer. After all, this is how a powerful English queen who wins and asks who has a majority, one who has a majority has no problem being a prime minister. We're the only ones besides all of our problems that we've managed to further reverse this thing and get into all of this. 21 Therefore I say we have neither come to the programme nor in this way cannot come and I will not comment, I am sorry that there were no members of the Presidency who were to explain their proposal today which led us into this situation. And that's why I asked you this morning if there's any chance we could hear, this is a very serious matter of those who have been very unserious in this situation. I wish we had heard the arguments of two members of the Presidency, not to listen to speculation that Mr. Izetbegović had been determined to support Mr. Kukić after information that he was the director of the Marxist Centre in Posuje and that it was specific to him. I don't think so, but that's some of the, I don't know, stories, and I'm surprised that Mr. Izetbegović is showing affection for these left-wing events in BiH, but good. And that's something that's there, but I really wish I had an explanation today. Or that Mr. Komšić conditioned support for Mr. Kukić if he provided HDP support and that he was delighted with that support and that it had defined him for, I don't know, something like that. But all these are speculations, and I wish we had heard it here today for the sole reason that we should send a message to the BiH presidency that in the next round, which we cannot avoid, that it is truly responsible, that together with the representatives of political parties, the leaders of political parties, with the usual way to ensure the passage of this House, that it respects this procedure. In the BiH presidency, there are people who are politically powerful enough, behind whom are the three largest political parties in this House, and I think it is the turn that these things are no longer happening to us, but simply to take advantage of that opportunity. And surely this House of Representatives will not be an obstacle, as so far has not been an obstacle, in line with the Presidency's proposal on the basis of consensus that we can get a final chairman and that we can get the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4968	Representative Mirza Kušljugić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4969	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My replica refers to a finding that is not correct in Mr Kalabić's previous discussion. In 2000, the presidency gave mandates that did not go through this House, in line with the proposals. So whether someone will be confirmed in parliament or not depends on the parliamentary majority and the entity majority. Then came the harmonised views of the Presidency which did not pass through Parliament, just to remind you, those who were in 2000 accidentally were in this room for a time here. And I think it would be my turn to talk about the program, to use this discussion to see what's good and what's not, whether there's going to be a second round or not, and it's not right for us to be here, no matter what I think we should be present, we're giving lessons to the members of the presidency. They know exactly what their powers are, and it is prescribed by the Constitution, and they stand behind their views, and they have expressed their views publicly in the media as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4970	Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4971	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the College, colleagues and colleagues. I won't address the ambassadors here, but here's everyone present here in the O.R. 22 Given the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which you have read in particular, I will also refer myself specifically to what is the subject of today's debate, but allow, at the very beginning, on behalf of the Party for BiH, to mention that, given our opposition position, we as a pause and do not bear responsibility and the usual and is not the practice of some opposition party and being part of the parliamentary majority or possibly supporting the prime minister and so on, so far, we have not had the opportunity to see any program of any potential mandater, or to be seen about it. So we've been following up, so far advertising mostly, unfortunately, through the media, I'm saying unfortunately that other opportunities have not been used, so different advertising and parties, documents, platforms and so on. On some of these items we also reacted as a party, so let me also mention at the very beginning that it would be good if we had also received today the programme that Mr. Kukić here indicated in his exposé. I remember well, and I remember, chairman, that four years ago it was you who insisted that the current prime minister first submit a written programme so that it could be discussed. And I'm sorry you forgot that. When it comes to the programme itself, therefore the Party for BiH will not support it, which, of course, is not personally directed at Mr Kukić, so we will not support any prime minister as a party in the opposition. But here, let me refer to what is the subject of the debate – it is the exposé of Mr. Kukić in which he pointed out, as he said, the topics on which programming premises are based. Here, I'll use exactly the structures that my colleague Kukući mentioned for the pay phone, but I feel the need to look back at these topics and look back at the structure you used at the very beginning, which is that it is time to, and what was going through your exposure, which is the need for a twist, for a radical change. Referring to the construction that 20 years this country characterized, that is, the country's leadership characterized, as you said, a fragmented machine. You see, part, part, good part, even the key part of that fragmented machine is today behind those who suggested you here. I deeply hope they're not very offended, but here's the need to only mention that for 20 years, therefore, some political options have made up this fragmented machine and even besides, not engaging in qualifications but I will mention, that 20 years of different factored layers have not brought this country into a position that nine months after the election still doesn't have a government. However they were settled, we had the Council of Ministers and Governments long before the past nine months and, unfortunately, several more have already been announced. You mentioned at the beginning that you would not engage in constitutional changes as chairman of the Council of Ministers. I will only remind you that the Council of Ministers is part of the constitutional structure and that it would not be good if you did not engage in a discussion of jurisdiction and so on, because the procedure and everything that regulates the Constitution and possibly which would regulate constitutional changes and as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned. You say you'll help state institutions. I don't know how the chairman of the Council of Ministers can help state institutions. I've got to get really above this structure for a while. You mentioned, for example, the strategic objectives of economic development as a basic premise. What were your goals? You did refer further in your exposé to several key economic problems, which are indeed well chosen but I must say that we had the same problems in the exposé four years ago. So there's no problem with what you're apostrophe as an important area of action, but the problem is something else. Especially, let's say, when the economy, unemployment and so on were mentioned, I'm glad you came here today to tell this House 23 that we have very high unemployment, that something has to be done. It is true, we know, there are those here who are much longer, here is counterpart Kuršljugić, and has been observed much longer in history, so in BiH's recent history that we need to do something. But what will you do to increase employment? It's part of your program, it's supposed to be part of your program. You have well and apostrophed the need for foreign direct investment, attracting foreign investment. You also apostrophe of a slow bureaucratic apparatus, and so on, you quoted a foreign investor well when you said you needed to flexible the legal provisions. I don't know what you mean. Whether you're thinking of changing the legal provisions, putting them out of force or bringing new ones. This is the role of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Council of Ministers, in terms of a proposal for this Parliament. It's a good thing you said you needed to learn. We've drawn some lessons, but what are you going to do? I hope you intend to not only learn lessons but also do something. That the authority of state institutions should be exercised – this is true, however, in this context you have well apostrophe of the efficiency of state institutions, corrupt practice, a culture of political communication, or a vocabulary which, as you said, produces fear and needs a twist. But how are you going to secure that turn? The key question, I just want to remind you, the contents of your program, the priorities, the actions that you've apostropheed in one way, I can't here, no one can deny, no one can challenge, but the answers to that, to the direction of your actions are lagging behind today. It is good that you have apostrophe of BiH's European perspective and NATO membership, but it is not good that you said nothing has been done for the last four years. I will only remind you that for the last four years, only two items -- BiH has received the MAP when it comes to NATO membership, and when it comes to the European perspective of BiH, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been signed. So two key elements, I'm just mentioning, that characterized the last term. I do not happen to belong to those who are satisfied with the dynamics of bringing BiH closer to Euro-Atlantic integration. Furthermore, you mention the full implementation of the Dayton Peace Proasum as a strategic goal of the Council of Ministers, and that is where you mentioned the Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Kukić's term of office began with the CEC's mandate and then with an oath, so please read the contents of the oath. Every MP here has sworn to respect, among other things, the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which includes, of course, constitutional provisions, namely Annex IV, which forms the Constitution. It is good that you have particularly apostrophe of the issue of return and refugees and the need for a twist in implementation, as you have said, that is to say, the implementation of a strategy that has passed through the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, but I only want to remind you of one thing. In the past term, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, by adopting budgets, has provided 30 times more funding only from the Budget on the basis of it, to address the issue of return. I won't say that's enough, but I want to remind you of that. If you are elected chairman of the Council of Ministers, it would be our pleasure for you to provide more. When it comes to the state property you mentioned -- you say the Council of Ministers, together with the Parliamentary Assembly and entities, will work to regulate this issue intensively. You see, when it comes to state property you as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whether, 24 potentially, you just need to intensively do it to register. Here's a question, as you mentioned, preparedness for dialogue and compromise, I really don't know what you can keep a dialogue about, or what kind of compromises you're talking about when state property is indisputable state property. It was the subject of discussion during the Dayton Peace Agreement talks, the conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the status of state property as state property is not at all controversial. So, let me remind you, with the undisputed status of state property, state property is the only connective tissue of BiH and you need to take care of it. Of course, what was apostrophe, no one can question you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4972	I just want to point out that time is up for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4973	If it's over, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna try really hard to get it over with as fast as I can. I'm glad you've apostrophe of the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. I think we have already entered a phase in which BiH, at least when it comes to communication with The Hague tribunal, has no significant problems. Let's say the reform of the Public TV system. I must say, Mr. Kukić – You were part of that system unlike most of those present here. I will not say that you have identified yourself with the state characterized by the Public TV System but I do not remember that, as in the function you have performed, a very important function, you have ever reported not to implement the law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly, especially when it comes to the Law on the Public TV System and the Public TV Service and the establishment of a corporation as a fourth arm and so on, I do not recall that you have apostropheededed this as a problem or that, ultimately, you have resigned from the function you have been elected, because you do not respect the laws that this Parliamentary Assembly has passed. So let's just take care of it a little bit. I thank the chairman. I just want to commend the prime minister, or the exposé, and his commitment to macroeconomic stability. Unfortunately, in the absence of time, I do not have the opportunity to refer to several items you mentioned, which should certainly have a different definition of the Council of Ministers chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4974	Thank you. Mr. Kukić, I hope you record these things carefully. This is a valuable experience from a party that was constantly in power and still has ministers in the Council of Ministers. The word is from Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4975	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished guests. At the very beginning, Mr. Chairman, I ask you when you represent us MPs, so do it nicely when it comes to the chairman of the SDP Club, so please state his name, when you call my name to say SDS, I will be very grateful that 25 of you have the same relationship with me as others. I hope you take this remark as one that's very rational and I think it's reasonable and I ask you, I'll take care of it very carefully, so please take care of it at least when it comes to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few dilemmas. I see, of course, that journalists don't have a dilemma because they've been exposed in writing, and I haven't had the opportunity as an MP, and I'm very sorry that here's the service and others who worked on these jobs didn't at least bother to get this written material so that I could make an effort to consult a little bit and make more comments. It's hard to quote, and it's not even possible to quote, Mr. Chairman, oral exposure. So it's only possible to quote something that's written and I don't have it as an MP, so I can't quote certain contents. And of course, at the very beginning I am partly in a dilemma, of course I will make it very easy to clarify that you have said well – in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that Mr. Slavko Kukić will present his political programme. Yeah, that's exactly what it says in the Rules of Procedure, you're absolutely right. But that moment, quite accidentally, Mr. Lagumdžija applied for the replica, so I was further confused, probably by accident, because it might simply be something else, so I'm not quite sure whether it was a political programme or what the prime minister himself said he was submitting the basic programme objectives of the Council of Ministers. So now I'm not exactly clear what it really is to offer to me as an MP, I am speaking, therefore, as an MP in this House. Of course these dilemmas have a certain kind of content, I don't want to explain them because there's really no need. I'm not going to talk about the content itself because I think it's really hard for me to find a certain kind of argument that should disprove certain facts that are really numbered in one way that, I say, through the entire exposés asked very specificly, in which I expected to put a little bit of it differently, but here's the approach that Mr. Kukić made, but I have certain questions, so which will be very specific and these questions are very important to me, and so I, this time, would only be dedicated to questions. Mr. Kukić, I ask you, since Mr. Kalabić also had a dilemma about the aforementioned entity vote, and you have commented on this in public and you have not said anything about it in your own exposé, I ask you to answer me specifically to the question, so that you can give me a clear view – Are you in favour of an entity vote or are you against him? And I ask you not to give me one answer that could read like this – you know it is an obligation for you in Parliament, however you agree I will accept that solution. I want to know what you, as Slavo Kukić, think about this issue and tell me clearly and unequivocally – I am in favour of entity voting or I am against entity voting. It's very important for me to know, and that's why I'm putting it that way. My next dilemma concerns the question of the census. You have apostrophe of the Census Act and, of course, I'm interested in what you think – should there be an item in that census that speaks of the national declaration of those who are listed, and not just people are listed but there are a lot more things to be written, but when it comes to people, should they present their national commitment and should they be made known about it? And of course, I have a few more questions. You were talking about saving, I think this spending at BiH level, especially from various agencies, many institutions and so on. It's very irrational. 26 I wonder if, in your opinion, these allocations will be reduced, so will the budget of the BiH institutions be smaller, since some agencies, administrations and various institutions spend a great deal of money, some have not justified their existence, and some of them should be well-recognizable to me if there are excuses for their existence and whether these jobs can be organised in other ways? This would practically achieve certain savings. Is there a willingness for you to reduce the isolation, i.e. to reduce BiH's budget? Of course, your role in this whole thing is something more specific than the position of the proposal, so the budget that is proposed here in a different way. So these are just some questions, as you say yourself, we need to, you say, should we pretend to be deadlocks with our own eyes. Well, in order for me not to be deaf and stalemate, I ask you specifically to answer these questions that I have asked. And of course, it has made me a little bit more confused – the language you lied to and it is not Serbian and certainly part of the expression that you used in me can cause a certain kind of dilemma in the content itself, so please also the management of the Parliamentary Assembly when delivering such materials to me in Serbian so that I can understand it better. I admit that I don't understand it the best but I hope that you will make additional efforts to make me understand it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4976	Next word came from Mr. Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4977	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you and all your colleagues and colleagues here in this room. I have to say at the very beginning of this presentation that this exposure is today, this is also the programme, goals and principles that Mr. Kukić has stated, that no such programme goals have ever been laid out in this room. The problem in BiH has been clearly detected and the position and way of resolving this problem in BiH has been clearly stated. I am sorry that some colleagues may not understand or possibly have not heard what was said, so solutions have been offered for the current situation in BiH. To speak an hour here in front of these MPs about the real situation in BiH, about the failures that have been past and the way to solve it. I understood clearly Mr. Kukić thinks through the Council of Ministers to solve these problems. Mr. Slavko Kukić may not like someone as a person, he may not look nice, perhaps because of glasses, hairstyles and other things, but I think that this program that he presented here today deserves a teacher's clean heel, because here in BiH if we want a score of 5 to 10 clean ten. Several concrete issues have been raised here – when it comes to entity voting for or against. Maybe your colleagues from the SDS will decide whether or not to decide one way or the other. Whatever Mr. Kukić answers, I believe he will not win their favor today. I'd like them to talk me out of it. I'm against entity voting, I am. There is a way and it was part of the April package that caused it to fall. And here, one of the presidents was 27 against the entity vote. And then HDZ split up, one was for the entity vote and the other were against the entity vote. I then gave support here for those who did not support the April package, which were against, meaning entity vote. We need to protect everything - both Srbin, and Hrvat and Bošnjak in this House. Is it called an entity, or maybe a national vote, or someone else's about it. It's not right, and Mr. Kukić has presented his programme, his programming goals in a manner that is correct. All that matters about the Constitution of BiH is about this Parliament or the Parliamentary Assembly that was formed through two homes – the House of Representatives and of course the House of Peoples. Political representatives in BiH from both entities and from all three nations will be such a constitutional solution and it will by no means be what Mr. Slavo Kukić or representatives of the Council of Ministers wants or wants. Therefore, someone put in their mouth that it is for or against at this time, through the media that it has pleaded, when it comes to entity voting or when it comes to election law in BiH. All those who care about the equality and position of Hrvat should have changed the Electoral Law in 2006, 2008 or some other two thousandths because they have a continuity or 15 years of power or something less, as the Party for BiH has, it has a permanent continuity of participation in the executive government. Therefore, I say these concerns about equality, it should be expressed, meaning through legal and constitutional solutions for all the peoples of BiH and all its citizens. So I think that before this exposé, and before these discussions, my colleague Kalabić may have made a joke and said let's do it before the vote, and then we'll discuss it. I believe that through these discussions we will not move far away, but from these discussions that we will cause perhaps some replicas, or this or those that will neither help nor take away Mr. Kukić. I think it was enough for what he put out, clearly, precisely and loudly in front of us here, we could have joined the vote after that. And, for the sake of the public who is following us, for the sake of the public who is following us, because we MPs often say that we are working, whether, so if the public is following us through the media, and we have the salary of these taxpayers, it is clear that it was necessary to fix and hire in BiH, then we do not need to argue too much and to call it work, because it is no work, but we need to bring this session to an end and end it. Well, that vote, either positive or negative, depends on who. We in HSP support this programme, and hence also the candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4978	In accordance with Article 70 of the replica, Aleksandra Pandurević reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Aleksandra Pandurević, SDS, as my colleague said earlier. Mr. Jurišić, I would ask you not to be an interpreter of attitudes or to open up some dilemmas about how the SDS will vote. It's very incorrect and it's not the first time on your side. The SDS's position from the first day was not unknown, it was public, we passed it on to Mr. Kukić. Mr. Kukić as a person, as a man, is not at all controversial for us. Dispute is that his choice would open up some problems in this country. 28 Mr. Jurišić, the SDS has its own information service, has its own subpar, and there is no need for you to promote yourself into our subpar. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4980	Mr. Slavko Jovičić called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, there have been many opportunities for replicas before, but here, so, did someone expect in this Parliament that someone less or more, because I will not make a graduation any more, capable of Kukić here with an exposé and saying, we will abolish RS, we will raise taxes, we will fire another 100,000 people, we will make, so of course the exposé is done as this country should look and like everyone. And if this were the world parliament, I would really applaud, be happy and say – this is possible. But today we're talking about confirming candidates, the procedure, the procedure. That's why a series of discussions here was supposed to be, and I thought I was replicating, according to the Rules of Procedure, I don't have the right, my esteemed colleague Bojić from the SDS, I support everything he said, and he's setting up the chairman, and 100% knows he won't vote for him. Then what do I care what he answers, not underestimating Mr. Kukić? We're just bothering you. It's all good from your exposé. I admire you, and this isn't ignoring, I've known you for years. You said the best last sentence. You have an alternative that you will continue working in the NGO sector, fully aware that you will not get support. So, you have in this country an alternative.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4982	Who's the replica? Mr. Jurišić or Kukić?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4983	Mr. Jurišić, because he rated him here ten times as if he were a professor instead of Mr. Kukić. All replaced by the thesis. And Mr. Jurišić won't say, he's also aware from the beginning that this won't go away for procedural reasons and that once we're definitely clear, that no one respects us, that we from the SNSD have a special defense of HDZ and, worse still, which appeared in the federal press, we're teaming up with the Hrvat against not giving Bog to someone else. Never. We defend the position of constitutional, rotation, constitutionality so that in the next term, fate from the R's, from the Serb people, will happen like this one, so that again someone from Sarajevo, I do not challenge anyone, to be clear, nationality, but that some of them would not again be from Sarajevo, ignored any representative of the Serb people from any RS political party, which would never have passed here in 100 years. People, distinguished colleagues, stay away from this. Take care of this problem in half an hour. Give the opportunity to legitimate representatives, two of these HDZs, to present their candidate, to finish this story. To respect their will for the majority of Croatian people and I will not go on, because it is already over. That it is the will of the Croatian people for Mr Komšić, so there are more Hrvat in BiH than in 300,000 votes, that it was but not. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4984	Now, Mr. Božo Ljubić has come to the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4985	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Unlike some colleagues who spoke before me, I cannot say that I miss the written presentation of Mr. Slave Kukić. And I wouldn't be talking about it here at all, but actually here is the questionable way that this candidacy came about, because it was created by a vote in the Presidency, no matter what the vote is secret, all three members of the presidency have pleaded as they voted. Therefore, Mr. Slave Kukić's candidacy stands for the maximum score of two members of the presidency behind whose election is the majority Bosniak electoral will, and it is a candidate for the Council of Ministers who should represent the Croatian people in this position. It is, in fact, contrary to the spirit of this country, in contrast with the spirit and the letter of Dejton, and that is the basic reason and the principled natural reason why we here, who represent the majority election Croatian will in Parliament, cannot support Mr. Slave Kukić's candidacy as chairman. In addition, I explained it in writing at the meeting of the Committee for the Election of the Council of Ministers, as regards Mr Slave Kukić's response to the explicit question of how he assesses the formation of the Federation's power since 17 March, or whether he assesses this formation as legal and constitutional. He made it clear that all procedures of law and constitution were respected and that, as I recall, there were no fellers in it. So, knowing that this is the formation of power is the Central Election Commission, which is the only one in charge of respecting the legality of the elections, both direct, and indirect, to explain here for those who are less familiar with the Federation system also refers to the establishment of the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament and to the election of the vice presidents and presidents of the Federation, so the Central Election Commission has assessed the election as illegal. Therefore, the person who also declares these elections to be legal and constitutional to me does not give confidence that tomorrow will be a wake-up call to fully represent the reviving of the pave and the law, and knowing that this is one of the five plus two objectives and conditions that the international community expects of us, both for the transition of the OHR and for the accelerated path towards the EU, then does not give me confidence that it is ready to lead the country in a consistent and accelerated manner. And as for the exposure itself here, in it I found no quantification, no sectoral policy except that the share of public spending will be reduced to 40% of GDP, but nowhere has it been said that it will cover all the needs that lie ahead of BiH. So I wouldn't say anything further about it. What I am trying to say here, despite the fact that there are no members of the Presidency here, I expect the Presidency in the first row to correspond to the public in BiH for the outcome of today's vote here in Parliament, because the Presidency has made this decision after careful consultations with all political parties in BiH and should have known which candidate can achieve support here in Parliament and that we do not lose a month and more on, to say the debate and promotion of certain candidates, certain policies, but what is behind us, that time can no longer be returned. The loss cannot be compensated, but if this is a lesson for the future, and that lesson should be respected in a way, that is my recommendation, that no one who will never be part of the deal here in BiH, with the guaranteed parliamentary majority, is no longer proposed. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4986	The replica was reported by Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4987	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy, ladies and gentlemen. The replica refers to manipulation... after the election of one and the other HDZ, the majority electoral will of the Croatian people. I am a Hrvat and this data, facts, from the election I could not get from anyone, although I asked and asked on the basis of which data the majority electoral will of the Croatian people could be obtained. We don't have a census for 20 years. Those who drill in the chest with the majority electoral will did not want to bring it in the last term. They had a Council of Ministers, they had a parliamentary majority, they didn't want to bring it in so they could still deceive the public that they didn't have facts. Irreligiousness of power, you know who the organ is to determine that. It's the Constitutional Court. For example, the Federation Government, as is now the case with the two HDZs, is an illegal elected power. Gentlemen, you know who can tell, Constitutional Court. The president of the HDZ Federation filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court and withdrew it when she saw that she was wrong. There, so much for the majority election will of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4988	The replica was reported by Mato Franjićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4989	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica refers to the replica of counterpart Mladen Ivanković Lijanović and his view that it cannot be determined what is the majority political will. Of course, the political will in these circumstances cannot be determined as explicitly as it can be determined who voted for a political option based on the list for the promised 100 marks. Thus, the explicit cannot, but it is very clear that simple analysis can determine which parts of BiH the most Hrvat live in and then take a look at who received most of the political support in those parts. That's one thing. The second thing concerns what could possibly be done, i.e. the HDZ, as a political option that has the majority legitimacy of the Croatian electoral body, could have done with changes, I don't know, election law of this, that. I want to remind you that your ideas of twins, who are just like you now, once participated in power without the majority of Croatian electoral legitimacy. In doing so, I am referring specifically to a party that was then called the New Croatian Initiative, that they have agreed with the octroed amendments to the Constitution that the Croatian people have turned into a third-rate people in BiH and made it impossible to protect the vital national interests of that collectiveity in the Federation government, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4990	The replica was reported by Mr. Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4991	Thank you. In the election if HDZ thinks those who went out that those voters who didn't go out if they are for them, I agree that they have a majority electoral will. So voters who didn't go out are not HDZ voters. It's the basis that it is. And as for the Constitution that brought High Representative Volfgang Petrich to the Alliance, we know that in Parliament, and who we were, has not been confirmed today nor has there been any consensus about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4992	Mr. Beriz Belkić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4993	I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues for coming forward, but unfortunately, my colleague Azra did not have the time to bring to the end what we could, to say the least, to go listening to Mr. Kukić because we also didn't have that written document and we apologize in advance if we didn't understand or misread something. We felt that there was no mention of an extremely important EU document in your exposé, or programme, so a new EU strategy by 2020 called Europe 2020. And there it is said that the key instrument is to implement an open method of co-ordination of states. Why do I mention this – coordination? You have mentioned very often in your programme the term of the co-ordinating Council of Ministers, Coordination and so on, and so on, the impression that the Council of Ministers would be one coordination agency. So there's no indication, no willingness, no desire to build a system. So, the system of vertical and horizontally connected bodies, different level bodies, dissipated levels of state administration, and to create a system in the conditions of a complex state, I stress, of course. So, coordination, a constant expression of coordination, coordination, and a man's impression that we're going to have a coordination agency. Unfortunately, I would be very happy if we could come into a situation to determine some state policies in the field of social policy, to do health reform, pension disability insurance, but these are unfortunately competencies in entities and I just understand it, if so I absolutely support it, that these are your ambitions that the state is dealing with these things and in some way to take it upon itself, I welcome it absolutely. Of course, taxes, only one type of tax is in the jurisdiction of the state. And also the reconstruction of development banks, we know who's reconstructing them at the moment. I'd like to set up a development bank. So, gospodin Kukić, if these are your goals to establish these things at the state level, absolute support. And finally, not to be fooled, not to use any other term, this program or any other program and this debate, will absolutely not decide or decide on the mandate. The parliamentary majority decides on the mandate, i.e. the ability to create a parliamentary majority. So, I would like to see the parties in this House, which is the House of Citizens, not the House of Peoples, but the House of Citizens, programming parties, programming parties. But that's obviously impossible. So, here you go, gentlemen, election winners per entity, sit down, settle down and establish power. The debate on the program, it won't bring anything. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4994	Ambassador Nermin Purić called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4995	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, media representatives. By estimating the time we spent at this session today, I will try to be as brief as possible and to present in short lines the views of my political party when it comes to what we have gathered today, which is, therefore, the appointment of the chairman, i.e. the appointment of a mandate for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. The issue of forming the BiH Council of Ministers is therefore the most important issue at BiH level, because by resolving this issue, we are paved the way for the establishment of BiH authorities in full capacity, but unfortunately it is only within the ninth month of the general elections in BiH. We have to be honest and admit that so far we have not justified the confidence of the citizens we have been told in the previous elections because we have not been able to stand up to enough strength and political wisdom and skills to resolve the issue of the functioning of the government at a state level within a reasonable time. Of course, the responsibility for this is to the greatest extent borne by the parties so-called. election winners or parties whose clubs contain the highest number of representatives. Today, BiH is unfortunately a patient with a severe diagnosis but at the same time with high chances of healing, and the only proper therapy is dialogue and mutual understanding and the sooner we understand it, and the sooner we apply this therapy, the sooner we will achieve this goal and the same, I am convinced, BiH as a full member of the EU, and arranged on the basis of the will and consensus of the citizens who live in it. At this time, I would like to give my kind of recognition to Professor Kukić, who has moved a little political practice from the usual centrifuge and who has tried to implement communication with all the political factors in BiH, and it is certain that it has a certain effect. The BiH Democratic People's Community, on whose behalf I speak here today, does not belong to any political bloc, so neither to the political parties gathered around the platform nor to the other bloc, and we do not have any responsibility to those blocs or any obligation to them. The only obligation we have is for the state of BiH and its citizens. Only in the context of this, and our desire to make our contribution to the end of this political tape on the formation of government at the state level, should we also observe our support to the candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers. Of course, we have raised many other important issues here today, but today is not the time to deal with these issues, today is the time to make a final decision, when it comes to forming a government at a state level, or to say whether we will end it today or leave it for another period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4996	Thank you. The word is "Zlatko Lagumdžija." Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4997	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because, following this logic, I should have asked you now to introduce me to come from the SDP if, but here I am not angry. Yes, thank you. The joke aside, I want first of all to thank Professor Kukić for everything he's done so far and his exposure has shown that those who thought he should get the time of about 7 days were right to prepare a serious and serious exposé. I'm also encouraged, and I must appeal to some discussions that have given me one hope here that it is possible to come to a common solution. In fact, we objectively assess two things today. We evaluate the candidate and evaluate his political platform, call it whatever you want. I must admit that I am encouraged that when it comes to Mr. Kukić's programme, he has practically not experienced any more serious criticism. Naturally, there were suggestions, few figures, few deadlines and all that. All right, that always praises every exposé. When people come to places like this, they have a problem that can't be solved. And, theoretically, if you try to take a comprehensive picture and try a better, more detailed explanation, then you have a suitable ground for error hunters who are then looking for material to find something problematic in the quote. On the other hand, if you're trying to be concise, then you always have people who rightly ask why it's not something more detailed. So it's an insecure problem when you want a man on that side to attack. But I think I'm repeating it one more time, a lot of encouragement that this is the kind of program that's been through these grades. It is a comprehensive, comprehensive programme that has been trying to, that the evaluations of the situation that are, in a certain way, a common denominator of a larger political number of parties than those of the four parties that initially proposed it. It's just that some people won't accept it in their hands, maybe it's another thing. On the other hand, when the candidate is assessed, you can deny the candidate personally from the point of view of some problems, if you don't like what he did specifically, said his credibility to trouble you. And there's another possibility that politically, that candidate doesn't suit you. I have to admit, I don't know four years ago, I had a problem of a species, eight years ago, the problem of another species, from the point of view is whether, a personal relationship with the candidate and... this time, I disagreed politically with the candidate. And it's legitimate and legal. But what made me happy was that today I even heard from some of the MPs who are here, who come from the RS, for which there are grounds for doubt is whether they will be against, or at least not to support it, who said personally in communication with Professor Kukić were very pleased with what they heard from him and in the way they spoke. It still gives me hope that 34, even if it's due to a personal assessment that it's a quality candidate, we're still going to look for more people to support it. There's a political discrepancy over the candidates. And that's more than obvious. It is evident whether, as we have heard the truth here, there is a majority Bosniak will behind our candidate and it is Croatian whether and for that Hrvat that some deny that he can represent such a thing. On the other hand, however, they are also calling for their candidate who explicitly has a bar in the presidency, a majority or one person is whether, in the presidency, the nation, the Serbian will. And as far as I'm concerned, it's purely mathematically evidenceable, and it's okay, and that's not a problem. But you can't deny a candidate the legality and legitimacy of one candidate, and then ask that your candidate, based on the legitimacy and legality that is being asked here, is obviously, every candidate here from a certain point of view, and therefore I believe that naturally, unless today Mr. Kukić gets an entity majority, I wonder from which entity and with which ethnic will he is not going to be whether, by ethnic will of the people he belongs to, it will be very interesting to see. Let me remind you, this is not the first time we have entered Parliament with an uncertain vote. This kind of vote was 10 years ago, 10 years ago when two members of the presidency reputed the third and went out with the candidate, what a strange coincidence the same from the order of the Croatian people, which came to Parliament and in Parliament got a minority, not an entity, but a majority down. And then in the second round, 22 signatures that included the entity majority led to but that the presidency had changed its decision and voted 2:1 for another candidate who later won the majority. So this isn't the first time we've been in here uncertainly. Although I'm not sure the sun was shining on us with those two previous certain results. But there you go. What they say is, everyone has their own attitude in it and thank Bog for not voting today. On the other hand, I want to make it very clear that it is not correct to ask Mr. Kukić or anyone here and determine whether you are for or against entity voting in terms of being or not to be a candidate. Because if we here in Parliament are going to give support to the candidate, depending on whether or not it's for and against, and we're going to be tough, then we won't get a mandate at all. Because as far as I know, all nominated prime ministers in both the public and the parties here, so it is clear that the parties that have the Croatian prefix that do not support Mr. Kukić are also clearly against this kind of entity vote. Does this mean that tomorrow the other one of those three candidates, Mr. Ivanković or Mrs. Krišto, who are also against such an entity vote, is at least not a secret. Does that mean that no one from the RS will vote for them until someone shows up to be an entity voter? So we know we're divided about it, we know there's no 35 entity majority here for or against entity voting. Then what are we doing as a problem? Because that in itself can be an excuse. What I want to say again here very clearly, Mr. Slavo Kukić has a full mandate in accordance with the Constitution of this country. The constitution of this country knows the House of Representatives, knows the House of Peoples, knows entity legality and entity legitimacy and ethnic legality and ethnic legitimacy in accordance with the Constitution. And that's perfectly clear. And I want to thank Mr. Kukić again for coming out with a comprehensive program, a brave program, so brave that he was so comprehensive. Quite naturally, I have some remarks that I also miss some things, but I think if, objectively, it wouldn't be the reason that I'm making a problem out of it. And finally, for those who are looking for what the ethnic vote is like in the past elections, let them look into the archives of some media that publish the listening conversations, that maybe they help them. Perhaps the method of listening to the people can be found out whether, which nation was which voter was and how he voted. That's the only method left here. She's neither legal nor legitimate, naturally. But is it, if it's just the top natural principle to find out exactly what nationality is how he voted? morati're going to have to look for illegal and illegal methods as in the past and thank Bog for the future I don't worry, no one here will institutionalise them because of entity voting, so because of the democratic majority in this House. There may be such tapes, there may be such tapes, we might read tomorrow in some newspaper a new phone list, nationality as who voted, but then it's for another kind of analysis that will require another kind of parliamentary commission anyway. And in the end, once again whether, I refer to the words of the gentleman, Bosić this is really a chance for a new beginning I hope that Mr Kukić will be part of that chance and that we will define ourselves for the future and not for the past as he has said. In the end, if we cannot emotionally support a candidate, as some cannot emotionally support Mr. Kukić, I suggest you rationally support him, you who cannot emotionally support him. Because rationally it makes sense. After all, this country, its future is about the fact that it's rational for us to be together, although some may not like it. There you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4998	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. The replica was reported by Milica Marković. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u4999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here I have a replica of my colleague Lagumdžija's exposure because he's so very skillful, whether or not on purpose, he's trying to serve us with some kind of trivia, or maybe he's in the illusion that the MPs from the RS today will support the candidate, or the prime minister. Now, even though the head of the SNSD Parliament Club said we wouldn't support it, I'm telling you one more time that we really won't. You've heard the SDS' attitude and don't call on us to some race or emotion, when what the people say doesn't drink water in this situation. I just want to correct you in some of the quotes that have been made here. You mentioned, you said we had a look at the mandate politically disagreeing on the candidate and we have a candidate and his program. As now, we're arguing about candidates and about his program and most of it here today has been announced that the program is not controversial, it's written so it's as good as possible and that it's more like MPs and it's logical for someone who wants to pass and get support. But you here are consciously overcrowding the fact and you are trying to ignore it that it is actually a mistake in the process of how this prime minister happened. That's where we argue, and there's a dispute over why Mr. Kukić can't have the support of MPs from RS. By the way, today in a commentary and a conversation outside this room, I said that it was a shame that an intellectual and respected professor such as Mr. Kućić was spent on such a political adventure that the SDP and, of course, other parties gathered around the platform. So it's a shame but it's a risk Mr. Kukić took. As soon as he was appointed by the Presidency, he could have known that he would have no support and that someone would probably, protecting his authority and personal dignity, had withdrawn in advance and would not have come into this situation. But obviously, you're also contributing as a party to getting him more and more into this crisis situation to say the uncertain situation. As far as SNSD is concerned, she is neither crisis nor suspense. So we cannot support Mr. Kukić for procedural reasons and the situation in which he was appointed as prime minister. And in the very fact that it is a disputed procedure and procedure as he is proposed for the mandate, it is unnecessary to speak now in general about his programme and what he would do if he were to become the chairman of the Council of Ministers, because apparently according to these views he will never become, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5000	For the word of him, he was a colleague of Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5001	I thank the chairman. Comrades, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Here I want to speak directly to Mr. slaviti Kukić and say that he has disappointed me in this period since he was appointed, so here until today, when he has disappointed me twice. In this time you got to talk to the political parties, apparently some of them didn't even want to talk to you. As you have seen, here MPs of all parties have listened to your program and I think you should have seen it as a fact that someone here wanted to listen to your program even though it already has a political attitude in advance. And secondly, when I heard your program, it seemed to me like a fairy tale program composed of a wish list and not a single sentence of how you intend to achieve your political programme, which are the mechanisms you intend to use and with whom in this country you intend to do this political program. You also know as a professor and as an intellectual, that the program must be made apart from the situational analysis and the time frame but also the way it can be done. So, in this term of office, I don't see a single positive thing. I see a lot of damage that BiH has received. BiH is close to winning an infamous time record in the length of the executive government's informality, which you have unfortunately participated in. A conscious violation of the law passed by the Assembly, uncertainty in Parliament's work has been introduced, the principle of agreement and trust among MPs has been violated, and in the College itself and BiH has been brought into an even deeper political crisis. I could always list the harmful things that happened in this period, but here I am only going to stick to the damage your candidacy has done to this Parliament and correct some who have said that it is good that you have received an additional 7 days. In this process, there was a breach of the agreement and principles were violated. At the end of last session, all MPs were told here that the session would take place on 17 June. In his session at the 3rd session, the college said in the minutes that it would be June 17th, the framework plan of activities adopted by the extended college under point 6 also said it would be June 17th. The Rules of Procedure have violated the agreement and the principle of agreement in this House, where Parliament schedules meetings and the commission has to do its job and not the commission says when it will finish its job and Parliament will meet. This has led to a system that has introduced uncertainty in the work of this Parliament and has so far not been. Parliament's Rules of Procedure say in Article 142 that the College is calling on the House session, not that the College, or this House, is waiting for Parliament or commission to meet. Rule 21 of this Rules of Procedure said that if the College can't make a deal here, we need to sit down and make 38 arrangements. What's the point of the deal today? Was there supposed to be a session on Friday? What is the point of discussing here is that the Law on the Council of Ministers has been broken, and you know well that it was violated in Article 10g) of Article 2 where the Commission had only 3 days to get a decision from the Presidency that was on 15 June to complete its report. The Commission has broken the law by leaving this member, not listening and not even asking the College or this Parliament. This means we have done damage to this Parliament by introducing uncertainty and knowingly breaking the law. I even tell you, Mr Kukić, that if you do not get support in this House today, you are complaining to the Court of BiH because the procedure is strictly violated. It's your right. This Parliament has broken the procedure by giving the commission seven days to do so. And of course, we can talk about it a lot. I was just talking about the damage she did the way she did, so the parties that are responsible, the way it was here today. But I also want to say, because there has been a lot in the previous discussion in the entity vote that if today comes to a second round of voting, since it never knows whether it will cross over to the second round of voting, entity voting will not only protect the long-term interests of the RS, but at this point will also protect the interest of the Croatian people translated into parties that have received the largest or greatest support of the Croatian people and their ability to represent them through their elected leaders in the executive government. And by doing so, we will show that we have both hearing and will to protect the interests of other peoples and not just by entity voting the interests of RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5002	I'm applying, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Kukić. You have, by your work and by your approach, shown primarily to all BiH that you are a candidate of honest intentions who wants to work in the interest of all peoples and all citizens in this country, and I believe that this is one of your key messages. During today's debate, some have been trying to create a particular parallel and order at this session who is the opposition and who is the position here at the state level. Unfortunately, I have to say, we still can't determine that exactly. Here are the SDP MPs still have no one in the BiH Council of Ministers, such as the BiH Party MPs who are still working at the Council of Ministers, so the process of forming a clear parliamentary majority, to say exactly who is the position of the opposition at the state level is open and it is yet to be closed. 39 I would like to say that it is very important that today's debate takes place in a truly democratic and tolerated atmosphere where all clubs, all parties democratically present their views and views. And I think that's the thing to be commended today. I congratulate Mr. Kukić on the expression and wisdom and courage and tolerance and tolerance to listen to everything, and it is particularly audacious whether to deal with all the problems BiH is dealing with today. There is no doubt that Mr. Slavo Kukić is currently the most serious candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers. If things were different, you'd be another candidate. No other candidate in this country currently has a two-thirds majority in the BiH presidency and no other candidate in BiH currently has a half-dominated majority in this House. I would especially like to say that I would like to support, especially this part of Mr. Kukić's political programme, where he recognized the main topics, key problems and pointed to possible ways out of the crisis. I especially want to focus on this part of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all peoples and citizens. I must say that I expected it from Mr. Kukić, since he is not only today, not just in the last month, but perhaps in the last 20 years, for at least the last 20 years I have tried to rise above what I like to say is that the nationalist swamp is in this country. I particularly think it is important that you have accentuated the need to remove system brakes for the accelerated pathway to the EU, as well as to trade a number of system measures through which this country will face organised crime and corruption. Many forgot to say it, but Mr. Kukić rightly noticed it. A good part of the programme of the former and current council of ministers, Mr. Kukić supported. The only thing he didn't support was the fact that he wasn't realized. So, Mr. Kukić expresses his willingness to try to implement these things that have already been agreed in the coming period. And I think it's particularly important at the end, when we talk about the political programme, that he may have given the greatest attention to the accumulated economic problems in our country. I must say, first of all, I expected more serious arguments from the HDZ MPs at today's session, not a story of some kind of majority will, about the legitimacy of who and when to represent some people, etc. I think we should have a discussion with clear arguments. There is no argument that the HDZ received 330,000 votes in the first post of the Dayton elections, and that it received slightly more than 100,000 votes in the last post of the Dayton elections, not counting this HDZ'90. The question arises where are the 230 or 200,000 HDZ voters. Does anyone want to run an analysis on why these people don't vote for HDZ today? 40 But I also want to say that we must restore honesty and principles to bh politics. We can't run a double-arshin policy in BiH anymore. What does it mean when I say double-arshin politics? I'm setting up a public bird, especially for my colleagues from HDZ. Who today represents Hrvat and Bosniaks in RS? Are the legitimate representatives of Hrvat in the RS Council where, say, more than 50% of the 8 in the National Council are from the SNSD, is this a problem only that they are not legitimately independent intellectuals like Kukić, such as Hrvat from SDP, HSP, People's Party working for improvement, and are legitimate when representing people from the SNSD Croatian people? I ask the question, of the three members of the RS government, how many people in HDZ are there? You're very good at this information. So, if you are trying to tell BiH and the people in this country that the legitimate representatives of the Hrvat are from the SNSD and if you don't mention it at all, and here you deny the possibility in the House of Representatives that out of the 7 Hrvat in House 3 support Mr. Kukić, then this is a story that we really need to talk about openly, but no longer in this country with the politics of the double arches. I think it is very important that today Mr. Kukić gets over 50% of the votes in the House of Representatives, that he has an overhalf majority. It's a very important message. What happens next? Who's going to stop the election of the board of directors, that's what we'll see. So far, I must say, from Dejton to this day there has been a policy from the RS, at least by key parties, that they are not at all interested in the situation in the Federation of BiH. Now there's been a change. Now they say and that is, things will crucially decide in that second round of voting whether to elect a candidate coming from the Federation of BiH. Maybe that's not a bad message, either. I also stand on the view that this is one state, that the issue in the Federation of BiH and as far as RS is concerned, but it is very important that we open a new story, which is today – tomorrow, when we decide on some issues that arise, whether, from the jurisdiction of the RS, then both the Federation and how to ask about these solutions. And that's good. I think it's a step in the direction of cohesion between both entities and this country. And finally, I want to say that we must finally realize that we cannot solve the old problems with the old formulas anymore. We must try to find new solutions, new formulas and target this country in EU justice, so that all nations, all entities, all cantons and all municipalities in this country in one BiH country move forward. We're moving on. The line came through, colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5003	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected colleagues from the College. 41 Mr. Bećirović, the way you talk about the Croatian issue in BiH on the eve of some political will, therefore, paints the essence of BiH's problem. So in a way that you don't really realize or want to accept the character of this country, that this country is three equal constituent nations, that this country can be stable, that it can develop and survive in the long term, only in a way that in that country three ethnically as it is common to say, political will must be respected. And the basic way to respect this political will of the constituent peoples is to respect their electoral will. Which means, and I'm not a politologist after all, but I know so much from this area, and that's the basic principle and consensus, which is the type of democracies that's been visited by multiethnic states like BiH. Therefore, you also know that it's '94:56:57--------------------------------------15:26:57-------------------------------------- ... when the Federation of BiH was created with therefore war circumstances, so I would say by the formation of a certain political reality, created as an entity of two peoples practically, composed of 10 counties and that as such it is imported into Dayton and that today in BiH of the Hrvat left in the Federation probably more than 95%. And in fact today, we Hrvat at this point defend our constitutionality primarily here in the Federation of BiH and you know it well and you are trying to take it away from us and you have shown it, so the political option you represent in the constitution of the federal government. And that 15 years ago and something more for HDZ voted 300 thousand voters, and now half less is actually the problem that we Hrvat feel here. Because at least half of the missing Hrvat in BiH, according to my assessment, left this country after the war. Not just seeing a perspective in a state this well-organised where national rights of the Croatian people are not respected. So everything we represent here is of fundamental interest to BiH, because BiH can only survive as a country of three equal constituent nations, and the basic principle of equality is that these peoples have the right to be represented in power by their legitimately elected representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5005	I thank my colleague Ljubić. Ambassador Niko Lozančić reported on the replica. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5006	Well, Mr. Representative Bećirović, if you didn't come out of the presidency's position, believe me, I wouldn't react to your steps at all. I haven't reacted in the past four years, this one, because I've never had them seriously, I knew that mostly, mostly, they're the fruit of instructions that you get from your party boss, and that's how I've experienced them. However, it is obvious that you have not become aware that the position of the chairman of this House is far more responsible and much more responsible than the representative position itself. It is obvious that by working in the College you bring to the limit the question of the functioning of the College and of this House, and with your unnecessary comments, with nothing caused by the comments, this one is trying to stop provoking some abnormal states. I don't know where you and anyone from your party are coming from, the need to deal with HDZ, and especially where you feel so much about the needs of the Hrvat and the Croatian position in BiH. That you're doing this hypocritically, insolently, and that you're leading this country into a deeper crisis every day. You gentlemen of the SDP showed what you think of the Hrvat when you chose someone else in the presidency by majority Bosniak will. So, not for you to have a political will there. And your party boss is right to say that there is a majority Bosniak will there through the first-elected Bosniak member of the presidency and the second-chosen Bosniak member of the presidency. Unfortunately, the constitution stipulates that they also have a Croatian member of the presidency, which is what you have disabled by taking care of the Hrvat. Don't expect at least to support such efforts, to accept that by force, by majorization, by numerical supremacy you determine the rights in this country, you know it's never good. You're a young man, and you may not have remembered some who in the early '90s in the former country tried to manifest such superiority. You know how they ended up. It wasn't good for anyone and I in that regard trying, so not wanting at all, um, unfortunately I didn't think we were going to discuss this kind of thing, this one I've said in principle, I haven't said a word to a man at all. Is he, that he accepted to be in position, I don't know, uh, the reasons and so on. The program I didn't want to talk about, here are the principles, the one who thinks well of this country, the one who thinks well of every citizen, how very often you declare your oath from this pay phone,... must act in every place in every opportunity and not just girlly. And since you and your political party are doing it, I know it well. When your head of the municipality in my municipality where I live took office, there were 28 Hrvat employees in the municipality.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5007	Mr. Lozančić's time is up for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5008	when today, after seven years of his authority there are only 8 of them, so you care about the Hrvat and don't speak any further in the position where he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5009	Mr. Lozančić, you still felt the need to comment, and I don't feel any need or want to descend to this level of debate that you have now stated. I've been talking about facts, you've unfortunately landed on the lowest speaking of people personally, but that's your level. Let's move on... you have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5010	Well, I don't know if I tried to do it in some other direction today, which you needed from Mr. Chairman, you warned us about the Rules of Procedure, and then you, I don't know what you were talking about before, and since I came in, you've been talking about Republika Srpska and the things that are happening in RS and you've been talking about RS all the time, and you've asked us to talk about Mr. Kukić and the program. And you said a few very disturbing sentences, and I think you should withdraw those sentences as the chairman of this House. You have been elected in accordance with the Constitution of this country by procedures and by the will of political representatives of all three nations in this House. In order to invite you to decide here by some other kind of procedure and by some other kind of majority, it's very dangerous, you shouldn't have done that. Just now, Mr. Lozančić said how it ends. If Bećirović transfer this Parliament to one of the Sarajevo streets you can reach an even more drastic majority of 95%, 98%, it's not good. So, you've called here to wish for some other majority by breaking procedures, breaking the Constitution of this country and breaking the laws of this country. That the chairman of this House should not work and should not show such a desire to do so. You know that the chairman of this Council of Ministers candidate, Mr. Kukić, if he gets most in accordance with procedures and the Constitution, I will be the first to give him a hand and he is then legitimately elected. And not dreaming about some other majority is very dangerous in BiH. RS acts as legitimate, legal authority, monolytic on every inch of RS and has no problems with anyone, very stable, very effective, unlike the Federation that is in a lot of trouble and I am not sure that it is exercising power in every part of the 44 Federation. And that's a problem that I'm not going to comment on, these are incomparable things with the field that you are to me, because if I were to set up today what the electoral will looks like in the place where the prime minister comes from, it would probably come up with a variety of results. Is it correct that someone who wants to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers in BiH in their homestead... I heard today that it is a questionable support for me, I do not dispute that it is important and that it is important, but for me it is important. When we spoke here, we sought the Council of Ministers with credibility in the entire BiH area. We think that such a Council of Ministers can be obtained by respecting the procedures, respecting the constitution, respecting the laws and respecting the legitimate electoral will of all three peoples, so that this authority is strong enough in all, in the field of BiH as a whole. This is our question which has been addressed to the mandate and to all those who, even by violating procedures, come up with certain positions on what will further, how will resolve this issue. We didn't get a natural answer, and that's why we didn't go further into grades. I mean, I wouldn't remind you, someone just reminded her, I mean Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5011	I remind my colleague Kalabić that the time has passed for replication.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5012	Here I am, finishing up, until today's debate I will remind you for the first time that we have come under constitutional and legal procedures. This Parliament has had 22 days of deadline, it is constitutional and legal matter to elect the chairman, i.e. to be determined. We have violated the Constitution and the law of this country to only allow the prime minister to appear today. And I end up with this, we haven't defined ourselves as a human, which doesn't mean that we support it, by misusing our political functions here you can bring 500 more credible people, better experts than Mr. Kukić, without reducing his value, people who would have a great program, but can't get to the members of the presidency privately, to push them through. You'd have something to listen to from the great managers in BiH who would tell you all about the economy in this country today, but I can't come. And here are the misused political positions to enable, which I have nothing against Mr. Kukić again, and I respect his credibility and his personal dignity. It has nothing to do with these political dimensions that I'm talking about. But in the story came our smartest man, and there's no country smarter than this.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5013	I'm a colleague of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5014	45 I think that, yes, and Mr. Chairman, I end up, and I think that you should correct that sentence with which you called this House of Representatives that it's not good, because that way, if you call that and RS can decide most of the votes on all possible things, then you'll have that kind of answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5015	I want to help you, so it's best that you take a stenogram of my presentation, to read what I was saying otherwise I see that you're getting into some comments that just weren't talked about. The replica has... Mr. Jovičić business intervention has priority. [[Disable microphone]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5016	Here I checked in now is the replica in third place, if you'd give me the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5017	Which part of the Rules of Procedure was injured, you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5018	Every day you mention it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5019	I'm asking you, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5020	I'm seriously warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5021	Which part of the Rules of Procedure was injured? SLOCK
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5022	I'm not gonna read the whole Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5023	If you do not know what part of the Rules of Procedure is injured I warn you not to make 46 SLAVKO
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5024	Mr. Bećirović, I'm running out of time, so you'll warn me.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5025	Yeah. SLOCK
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5026	Every member, you've warned a colleague of Kalabić about breaking time, management.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5027	kolega Jovičić, I give you the first warning SLAVKO
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5028	You warned me six seconds, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5029	That you can't work like that, I'm asking you SWEET
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5030	You may not warn your boss
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5031	I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5032	who broke 57 seconds, and I six seconds and you took away my word, my colleague Kalabić twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5033	Mr. Jovičić Slavko
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5034	I've got more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5035	You've called for business intervention, I'm asking you, SLAVKO
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5036	So I have to read all the members to you 47
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5037	so specify at least one
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5038	All the abuses today that you presided over them, all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5039	FOR THE SLAVKO-
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5040	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5041	The replica was reported by Ismeta Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5042	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the United States. I would very much like it to be a matter of my unparliamentary experience that I can't understand how with one point of the agenda today we have reached this exhausting and completely counterproductive discussion in the highest home in this country. I most kindly ask you, Mr. Chairman, that when you start insisting on respecting the Rules of Procedure and the agenda, then you stick to the end and in your personal stages as well. And dear colleagues, please support Mr. Živković in a sentence he has spoken. We came to this meeting today with fixed views, these views were known and publicly declared by all parties in BiH again during the past few weeks. It was enough for us here today to be very responsible and seriously those attitudes that we're standing behind, because they're justified by what we've already said and we support our vote. And in this way we send a picture from this House of Serious and Responsible Representatives, those who hold to who they are responding to, which are citizens of BiH. Don't mind me, but this picture today from this House is not going anywhere near any of us. The Alliance for a Better Future of BiH has already announced and I am only repeating it on behalf of our club now, we support Mr Slava Kukić as a prime minister for 48 reasons only, which is to speed up the processes in this country that are in the interest of the citizens of this country and that this country is given an instance that is a spokeswoman for the Council of Europe and the EU. So, to become a credible talker in the European processes that we are all so declaratively seeking. They also Ponović that we have announced that we believe that the process was completely wrong and that first it was necessary to achieve a parliamentary majority and avoid this today's way of communication and unnecessary steps in this distinguished House. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you and invite you to be constructive, and I urge you to never again from this House about one item of the agenda, which we have all told you before what we think and we have taken our stand, we do not send such messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5043	The replica was reported by Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5044	Ladies and gentlemen, I actually wanted to replicate to Mr. Kalabić, but he's gone, as it wasn't when Mr. Denis spoke, I wanted to send him to actually listen to the stenogram of this session and then say his views on the work of Mr. Bećirović, but there he is, and I don't have anything to replicate. /interrupted recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5045	...a lot of time, thank the president. And I have actually reported that, as soon as possible, I refer to a syntagma that he used in all of Mr. Kukić's presentation, which reads – the tasks of responsible policy. An interesting syntagma and an interesting imperative in front of all of us. I hope we agree on that. This country really needs a responsible policy and the extent to which a responsible policy is needed, it does not need an irresponsible policy to the same extent. The way Mr. Kukić was appointed is a school example of irresponsible politics. This way, this procedure and this intensity is directly confronted with at least two essential principles. With the principle that the core of this country, that its synthesis is made up of three constitutive peoples, or three different 49 national identities and with the principle of representative democracy, since we, too, are either trying to be in a system of representative parliamentary democracy, and not in a system of some kind of member democracy, and which is that in representative democracy, it takes a majority of the votes that anyone, at any level, could be legitimately elected and legitimately represented there, this collectiveity that should be represented. In other words, most of the votes of this particular collectiveity that anyone should represent at any level, since I am talking about the need to form a Council of Ministers and since we are using syntagms that are responsible for policies, then no other conclusion can be drawn from this two, except that the first and fundamental tasks of a responsible policy are to recognise that this country is three constituent nations which are not verbally disputed. And secondly, if it is a country of three constituent nations and if political representatives of those three nations need to represent these peoples and this country at different levels, including as chairman and Council of Ministers or as members of the Council of Ministers, then it is necessary, in accordance with the request of representative democracy, to ensure adequate legitimacy. All that is not is indeed an example of irresponsible policy, an example of playing with the ultimate benefit of citizens of all peoples and all citizens living in this country and not leading us well. We have spent real time, I, of course, resent Mr. Kukić, who did not find the strength to be truly in the function of a responsible policy, to seek a solution to these principles that I have spoken of, to seek a consensus through a compromise that will be a synthesis of these different interests that we are all aware of, not that this solution requires and to offer us a solution to any majorisation, any revote. And I just don't want to abuse this debate of mys, but very briefly to look back on some of the attitudes that were heard in the meantime, in the meantime, after I applied for the debate, until the moment I did, until I got the chance to discuss it. So, you mentioned, Mr. Bećirović, that 15 years ago, the number of HDZ votes was about 300 thousand, and now that one and the other took about half of it, well, that is the problem, you are, you have perfectly diagnosed the problem. We live in a country where the majorization of a nation is possible. I've been since '96. In the Federal Parliament until these elections, I have been and I have witnessed the mayoisation countless times, it has been imposed on constitutional solutions, amendments to the constitution declared by the High Representative to, during the Alliance's period of government, it began to be celebrated almost daily in the Federation government as well. The result of all this and can be such numbers can't be different. We have to face this as a problem and look for a way out of it in a way that, to come up with such a definition of this country where there will be no revote of anyone and 50 that we will all be equally satisfied with or if you want to be equally dissatisfied. And finally, with all the facts mentioned, you resented Mr. Lozančić, that he did not refer to the facts. And the gentleman said fine - the fact is that, 7 years ago, 28 Hrvat were employed in the municipality structures in Kaknja, and 7 years later, after 7 years, the head of government who came from the SDP dropped that number to 8. And that's a fact worth simply considering and a little respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5046	The replica was reported by Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5047	I'd like to thank Mr. Chairman only telegraphally, given that he is, I'd like to give a few evaluations that were given about what I was saying myself. I want to say very clearly that the most irresponsible policy is unconstitutional policy. The election of Slava Kukić as prime minister is in line with the Constitution of this country and it is irresponsible to deny the right to anyone to appoint a mandate under the Constitution of this country. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitution is not a constitutional category, but a political category. I also want to find out that the Federation is not an entity of two nations such as the RS is not an entity of one people. Which is also very clear with the Constitution. It's clear to me here, and I'm told that no matter how much I've called for a raid or an emotion or one or the other, and preferably one or the other, I've been told that it doesn't drink water, I'm sorry that it doesn't drink water either way if it doesn't. I'm glad to hear from those same people that the program is very good, Mr. Kukić. I would also very clearly like to say that we did not choose, quote, someone else instead of the Hrvat in the presidency, but on the SDP list, with the support of the country's citizens, SDP's candidate as a member of the Croatian People's Presidency in line with the Constitution of this country. In this regard, I would like to conclude very clearly and precisely that the candidates of the SDP elected at any level in the executive and legislative power correspond to the Constitution of this country and treat this country as it says in the Constitution, and that is the state of Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and other and citizens of this country and then the Constitution continues to follow and this is a preamble that is very clear and precise. We don't deny anyone to be the predecessor of their people, we just don't let 51 people deny the people of the SDP also to be members of their people because they represent them in accordance with the will they have received under the Constitution and the laws of this country. And that's the only thing we're looking for. We seek the equality of all peoples in the entire territory of BiH, we seek the equality of every man and every political party to be proud of what it is with every identity that it is guaranteed by the Constitution and by all the laws and mechanisms of the state. And finally, I want to say very clearly and precisely that it is good, good to see today that Slavo Kukić has the support of this Parliament to whatever extent he has and we have come with the views here, but it is our role and responsibility to get to know the public with our views. And that's the only reason we're talking like this, otherwise without it, we could have operated on the Internet by the end of the term of office on condition that some of us go through training.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5048	The replica was also reported by Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5049	And I am well interested in Mr Franjičević, uh, a little bit in responsible politics, so I wonder if it's the policy that's responsible when HDZ lets the RS represent the man that we in Sarajevo know very well. And the only thing we don't know about him is which national group he belongs to. Is it responsible policy when after 20 years of the end of the war, or slightly less Hrvat are less equal than others, it is a notorical fact, is it responsible policy when the Hrvat are not in the authorities and are not brought to it by an SDP that has actually been in power for only two years? It is a very interesting fact that Mr. Lozančić mentions, that only 8 of the 20 people in the Croatian Nationalities are working in the municipality of Zenica, and using such a method I can say that it is not true, there is no way that SDP will be someone who will majorise anyone. Here is the information that works for you in all the monitoring committees that we are currently filling in and we will also fill in for two candidates in the ZE-DO Canton one must be a Srbin or Hrvat, one of course Bošnjak. So, the responsible policy is that and we are really proud of the responsibility, of being responsible to everyone, of being responsible to an ordinary man... the least you need to talk to us about is majorization. So, with us, that means we're not 52 for it. And there's no MP, there's no authority that can show us anything about majorization, there's nothing of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5050	The replica was answered by Mr. Niko Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5051	I will comment briefly on the quote – the most irresponsible policy is unconstitutional policy. I agree absolutely with that, you have shown this and how you have shown in the constitution of the government in the Federation of BiH. Equality of all, I'm absolutely in. I just... mentioned the municipality of Zenica rather than mention the Kakanj municipality where I know reliable indicators. For the municipality of Zenica, I don't know, I don't know, so I won't say even though I don't think it's much better. I know confidently in the Kakanj Mine that in the last five years no Gentiles have been hired, skyscraper. I know for a fact that at the Termo power plant Kakanj did not hire any skyscrapers, that's reliable. And that's the equality you're carrying out, so that's the equality you're carrying out. You talk nicely to these speakers, listen well, but I want to send you people this one, who can't come... to their doorstep, I can't come by buses bringing workers into the mine and into the thermal power plant that they are, neither Hrvat nor Srbin. And those on the doorstep, they can't work either in the mine or in the power plant, that's a shame. And that's what the public needs to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5052	Zvonko Jurišić spoke for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5053	President, I apologize for having to bring in a little, uh, which says a negative discussion, reporting through this replica, and I'm not going to contribute a little bit to the end of the vote on a candidate for the Council of Ministers, and a good colleague has said that we've come here already with our views fixed, and I think we should interrupt the debate, here we all give up and yes, and we're starting to declare ourselves a candidate. When we talk about party representation, the legitimacy here spoken of by colleagues Ljubić, Franjičević... here, as it conveys the public and then it is convenient, on this tablet is written by Zvonko Jurišić HDZ 1990 – HSP BiH. This is where Mr. Lozančić writes to HDZ BiH. I would now not be here in this high 53rd House and the public of BiH presenting the programming principles that we had in the coalition called the Croatian Coalition, Mr Ljubić held in the political stands together. And a large part, a large part of those who meant to give us support, means still on the principles and political views represented by the Croatian coalition HDZ '90 – HSP, and this policy was quite the opposite of the HDZ. We were talking about majorizations here, so we were saying that people weren't employed, that's true. So I'm wondering, that's right, that's right, and I'm wondering who's responsible for that? All that is good for the Hrvat in BiH is also responsible for the BiH HDZ policy, and for everything that is bad, and that is much more, so is HDZ BiH's policy. Hrvat are majorised among themselves, because they are only privileged, they like to achieve Croatian pensions without ever seeing Croatian armies, only privileged could they receive rank, forge etc. This could not be done by ordinary citizens, all among Hrvat, it was not done to them by the HSP, it was not SDP, it was not any other political party. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5054	The replica was answered by Mr Mirsad Mešić, but I remind you you had two replicas, you can still sign up for the discussion, you can't, Mr Mešić, you can't be within one point can be two replicas. So you're still entitled to the discussion. Next call came Mr. Mirsad Đugum, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5055	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed deputies, the esteemed colleagues. I would ask you to chair this section of pre-election activities that has already taken place in this session today to be terminated. I think it's overrated for three years there's still three and a few years until new elections, and I think this is again, re-entering worms into citizens or among citizens. This part, this part of the session should be directed and I advise you to direct the debate on Mr Kukić's programme and to approach the vote. These topics if they are to be discussed at this session, then I think we should call a special thematic session, if you think we should, and not use this for pre-election purposes, which Mr Belkić says there are this, local elections that are in a year, a year and a few days. But I think it's either exhausting citizens or it's someone's desire to show off on TV, because the transmissions are today and there's a news car in front of Parliament, and I think we need to stop and let's not continue to sharpen the situation at this point. Thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5056	For the replica,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5057	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5058	Okay, for the discussion... Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5059	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I finally had to use one tactical trick to finally get a word in here, right? The replicas keep going, I wait for an hour and a half already to say what I think, and then I decided in the end that, besides the discussion, I also have an application for a replica, and that that way when I start speaking, I'm giving up the replica, but now I'm going to discuss, thank you for the given word. So what I'm trying to say is that there are very often discussions in our replicas and there have been a lot of discussions that have gone through these replicas. First of all, I would like to say that I will vote today to confirm the mandate, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the appointed chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Slava Kukić. The club SDA, the club president, has made such an announcement, and we will support it. As far as his programme is concerned, I will say that I am particularly pleased with this part of the programme regarding the view of the economic situation in BiH, monetary, financial, that is what we need at the moment, and for me, therefore, this programme and the mandater are not controversial. But that's not all I want to say to this occasion. Here in Parliament, and before Parliament in the Bosnian Herzegovina public, there have been large debates about whether this is right or not, the way in which the appointment of Mr Slave Kukić was carried out and which he came to today in a position to address us here with his political, political programme and to put us in a position to vote one way or another. It would be good to make a political agreement after the elections, as is good in every country in the world and to act on the basis of this political agreement. And that's the alphabet of democracy. But it is also an alphabet of democracy not to allow blockades of institutions that must operate under the Constitution to ensure a better position in political negotiation by blocking the institutions. We have witnessed this in BiH since October of the month until today. And that's what I want to say. We last time, Mr. Božo Ljubić came out of the hall now, last time 55 we were very aware that it was possible that Mr. Jurišić might not be elected president, or member of the College. But we said that the session was called on the basis of the Constitution, based on the Rules of Procedure and we said – we know that there is no political agreement, but this Parliament has to work. Parliament cannot function because there is no political agreement, nor does it have any right to block it because it has no political agreement. There is a constitution under which this Parliament must function and all the institutions of BiH and we say we go and vote and we get the result that we have received and we have all congratulated the elected members of the College and they lead Parliament today. It would be good if a political agreement were made when it comes to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but there is no political agreement. Why do I think what is the key cause, why is there no political agreement? And this is a bigger thing that I'm going to say now than the thing that's called, and that's a very high level of appointment of the Council of Ministers, this thing is called BiH today and about the implementation of election results is at a turning point. Today, I define this as an attempt to make and the little civil that exists in BiH domina. BiH is a state that can function and should function on a happy combination of civil and ethnic principles. Civil because this is a state of citizens and ethnic because this is a multiethnic state. And then you have to find a consistent and happy formula. When you look at the Dayton Constitution, when you look at the entity's constitutions, when you look at the canton constitutions, so if you want the statutes of the municipalities, you'll see that this principle is perceived through all these acts. There are those who are not satisfied that there is no more civil and there are those who are not satisfied that there is no more ethnic. In this country, too, a final answer must be given to the question of individual and collective, ethnic and civic, entity, cantonal, municipal and state relations and ultimately ethnic and party. And that category is the new category I see in the implementation of election results. It is not good for the position of the Council of Ministers until the appointment to come by negotiation, to come through the vote of 21. But that's better than not having a candidate. And I'm saying that's better than using the ultimatum line. Because however it is not good that there is a revote in BiH, it is also not good and it is not possible that there is a dictatorship of one, that there are ultimatums and that there are blackmails. This country can't work on it. And therefore, in the absence of all this, we today have Mr. Kukić appointed, be careful, he was appointed by the BiH presidency. The way decisions are made is one of the key issues in this country. He was appointed by the procedures prescribed in the BiH presidency. Today he spoke to Parliament and we will plead according to our procedures. I can kind of see what the score is, but let's wait and see what the score is going to be. But my speech today, therefore, is primarily about saying that I recognize what is happening in BiH today 56 and that this is one of the key moments in which BiH is. And that's why, as soon as possible, we need to be in a position to clarify and determine the relationships of these categories that I've been talking about. And when I talk about these categories, when I talk about BiH and when I talk about its functioning, we here have foreigners helping us in the form of OHR, the Peace Implementation Council, other international organisations. Don't think that's where all these categories aren't thought deeply. He's thinking very deeply and very soberly. We couldn't agree, so the OHR then led the negotiations, i.e. led the activity to make an agreement within the Federation of BiH and BiH. All these people know, therefore, about the relationship of both civil and ethnic and these institutions and individual, collective and entity and state and party and this ethnic and then the way out of the situation was offered, and I want to remind this Parliament that an agreement has been offered, a political agreement that has been rejected. Those who have rejected this political agreement are responsible for me because I can never accept for this situation and for this situation so that the people who offered us this political agreement, which has helped BiH since Dayton to date, who have helped us to establish we are stabilising the situation in BiH, do not think about these things. So when we can't reach an agreement ourselves, let's hear what these people say, friends of all of us, no one in particular but all of us within BiH and this country. And I say I would like this thing to end today in a way that Mr. Kukić is approved by this House as a mandater, then to continue the consultation process on members of the Council of Ministers. -------------------160909---------------- 160909 If this ends differently, I think the international community needs to be involved urgently again and find a way out of this situation. I simply, no longer can wait for this state, otherwise we will have, otherwise we will have a Council of Ministers in the technical mandate. Please, it's not possible to make a deal by setting things up in an ultimate fashion, by blocking institutions and then saying, so please, nicely to whom the right to say -- it can be government at the state level, but that and that man can't be that, too. Please, this is not a dictionary that comes up with a dialogue. So we must respect ourselves in BiH, and it is no accident that this principle of civil and ethnic relations in BiH is defined through the prism of vital national 57 interests and special decision-making in terms of vital national interest and, of course, decision-making by the majority of the two-thirds majority. That's actually the key questions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5061	Mladen Ivanković-Lijanović-Lianovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5062	Thank you, I would first and foremost congratulate Mr. Slava Kukić on his efforts and responsible task and responsible for doing his job. One saying says, "I can't tell you the recipe for success but I can tell you the formula for failure, try to please everyone." So Mr. Slavo Kukić clearly presented his programme, the programme, says a good program has a table of flaws, and the bad program has one. So Mr. Slavo Kukić has a table of flaws in his program, so he has a good program and a passing program. It is obvious that here in Parliament we do not have a political consensus or agreement, which Mr. Džaferović was talking about, he said everything I was going to say. And the past government, or past Council of Ministers, had a two-thirds consensus in this House for its work and for its programme and for its staff. Unfortunately, the results were not the ones expected. I hope we're on the right track, because it was obviously a hypocritical deal between the actors who did it then and did it. And finally, so I think that it's rational for us to be in BiH, that it's rational for us to bring this all to an end, and as Mr. Džaferović said, I think that... those who clearly did not want a political agreement, we need to sit back at the table with the international community to agree on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5063	Mr. Božo Ljubić answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5064	While I was away for a while, I followed through this system of our parliamentary and debate Mr. Džaferović, but Mr. Mladen Ivanković-Lijanović-Lianovic also gave reason to replicate. 58 So both mention the agreements and mention the ultimate position and that an agreement was offered, so as far as I understand it, to representatives who bear the majority electoral Croatian will. We gentlemen cannot negotiate who will represent the Hrvat. The answer was given by the Croatian people in the elections. It is not an agreement for you to say, so the parties from Sarajevo's SDP and the SDA that represent perhaps a maximum of 55, so to say, the electoral will of the Bosniak people, we have the right to take all Bosniak positions and we will negotiate about Croatia. As Hrvat, we should be the only ones to realize, so to speak, that the Croatian parties have 105%, therefore the election results in order to be able to fill out the positions that belong to the representatives of the Hrvat in BiH institutions. And here again I want to point out this notional difference between the representative and the member who carries the essence. So we can't agree on that. That's what Dejton prescribed, so when he defined BiH as a state of three constituent nations. And then along the way here to say I'm replicating Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija who, not actually explicitly mentioned me but I kind of recognized myself in his discussion about the entity issue. Yes, I agree with you that the entity of the Federation of BiH and the entity of the RS, entities of all three constituent nations, so multiethnically, that is, should be. But I also want to make it clear what I said. I said '94. the year is the Federation, therefore built primarily as an entity, primarily as an entity of Bošnjak and Hrvat and as such introduced. So Dejton defined BiH as a state of three equal, constitutive peoples. And I have no reason to remain silent here, so I am not satisfied with what happened to the Hrvat in the RS entity for the past 20 years, but the fact is that today, of the remaining number of Hrvat living here, 95% of them live in the Federation. And in the first row here as, therefore, a pragmatic person representing the Croatian people, among other things in politics, is the primary goal of saving what is given and what is being saved by the sea, and through the position of Hrvat in central institutions to protect the rights of every Hrvat in BiH, and through constitutional reform that hopefully comes to us with a solution that will allow every Hrvat, and every Bošnjak and every Srbin to feel equal, equal and comfortable in every part of BiH. So that's why, in no way do I want to say that we are only trying to defend the rights of the people here in the Federation, but in the entire territory of BiH. Thank you very much. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5065	Mr. Mladen Bosić reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5066	Thank you, Chairman, I would like to ask everyone a question - What have we achieved today's session, discussions and embassies that we have heard from Prime Minister Kukić today? Did we move the situation forward, did she stay the same or did she go back? Without any doubt, we have exposed problems in BiH here with this discussion. The discussion on the mandater, which is not related to his programme, but relates to the essence of the problem in BiH. Until this substance is resolved, there will be no stable political situation here. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, for reminding me that we have expressed hope for a new beginning. That every election is a chance for a new start. That start can be good, and it can be bad. Let me remind you that we expressed that hope when we tried to form a House of Representatives, this House, and that we came out of here satisfied and optimistic, thinking that the climate was finally created to respect each other's interests and that the suddenly elected leadership of the House and unblocked this for me was the most important institution of BiH. That after that, the leadership of the House of Nations was formed unanimously. Now, that was a fresh start, but it took a while. We have returned to the old situation at the Bureau meeting where, according to the Statutes brought by members of the Bureau, we have held a secret vote that we all know who voted for. They have avoided taking responsibility and trying to agree who will be the candidate who can provide the assembly majority and the absolute majority and entity passage. And there's practically brought down any hope at a new beginning. And this session right here, we're just confirming that we're going back to the old positions. There's talk here, not about the prime minister, here's talk about majorization. This is where we talk about the Dayton Agreement. There's talk of civil and national rights here. So we're obviously a deeply divided society. We return directly to the positions that have led us to conflict and that have led to this situation. I wouldn't elaborate, I'm sure it'll be in this assembly a chance to talk a lot about these and similar topics, because I think it's time to, what we all knew in advance, end up. Mr. Kukić, I resent what, when he found out he couldn't provide the majority, and he found out because we told him as SDS in a direct conversation, when he heard the open expressions of the other parties that he was going to vote and when he knew that this 60 House wouldn't get through, why he didn't return the mandate and spare us these situations that we now have here to create even deeper trenches where we are. I'm going to repeat my opinion on what's the way out of this situation. On the one hand, you have a back step with an unspeakable outcome. They don't talk, as far as I know, parties among themselves. Positions have not been changed. We're all moving away from each other. Here I call once again on politicians who are responsible, here I am ready to contribute to this goal, to reset their relations, to undo what has led to such a situation and have brought the initial positions that we have taken right after the elections and try to objectively talk to each other with respect. Not to reset the relationship, not to make a fresh start with the same mistakes, but to try to re-establish the political board, the chess board, which should eventually lead to some result. Here I would like a replica of something previously mentioned by certain SDP speakers, that they are glad to be interested in or involved in the situation in the Federation, that is, the basis for the Federation to interfere in the situation in RS. Well, we're interested in the situation in the Federation. Well, that situation in the Federation has led to this situation that we have here at this session. First, there was a misunderstanding in the Federation and a misunderstanding and a lack of respect for neither election results nor mutual relations. And it's not all normal. There is no democracy that can standardize everything with laws. The difference between what we call democracy and real democracy is that there are unwritten rules in real democracy. Under these rules, there's something that's normal. It doesn't have to write what relations will be like when Švajcarska forms its own government. This implies that space must be acquired and the results of individual cantons and individual nations respected. There's no willingness here to respect other people's interests. And I invite you to consider where... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5067	The replica was reported by Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5068	I thank Mr. Chairman, it's obvious that the Federation has led to this. That's where I agree. The Federation isn't on its knees, and that's why it came to this. Many hoped that the Federation would be economically, socially and politically on its knees and then be able to beat it however you please. That didn't happen. 61 We can get out of this situation by political agreement or be forced into economic and social problems that we will enter into part by part of BiH. We offer a political agreement. Look where anyone was seven to eight months ago politically. Take a picture, remember, take a political picture. Where was SDP, where was SNSD, HDZ and not to pick up other parties. And here, because you're taking us as an example, you have nothing to do with this, you're just for a constructive solution. All right. Look where we've been. Look at that picture. And look who's moved. So we came to the frame, to the shoulder of that painting. Other people here today who are setting up ultimatums haven't moved from the picture and say we want a compromise, move yet. What, let's get out of the picture. We're not gonna drop out of the picture. We've got almost 300,000 people and we'll stay in the picture. We'll walk around the frame if we have to, look for a solution, but you won't see us as someone who's a problem. The SDP got as many votes as it got and we felt it was quite logical that some things were being set up the other way. It's not a political job, so okay, no problem. We moved, we offered, to unelaborate now what we said, from our position, the ethnic position of the people of the SDP to mine and who asks you whose everything. So we moved, everyone else is standing, so it can't be like that. So, Federation, we will do everything we can in this House to come to an agreement, but we will not agree. Mr. Džaferović said no blackmail, no ultimatum. An insult may be, at least I've taught them to put up with it by now. I'll take the insults, but I won't take the ultimatums and blackmails, and neither will I, nor anyone from the SDP. What do you see so many of us in every problem? We want to calm the civil and national, we will. Well, it's a constitutional category. We don't deny national. But we want both of them to be European. We were, this isn't the first time, so you know how many prime ministers have been elected in entities, in minority cantons, minority parties, with helicopters coming. So we're the same, he knows beriz is smiling he was a minority so he got the prime minister, so what has to do with being a matter of political agreement like that. So you can do that, it's not a problem at all. We give it to the SDA, they give it to us, when someone was a minority, to HDZ everything, it's no problem at all. But the point is, therefore, appreciated gentlemen that we have a political agreement and we call you once again to a political agreement. The vote for slava Kukić is a vote for political agreement. There's a willingness to do something like that. There's a readiness. But there is our willingness not to allow any blackmail, no ultimatum. And there's our willingness to see economically, socially how we're going to fit in with the facts, face them. And if you're not in a hurry for gentlemen who ultimatums and grades here, we won't be in a hurry either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5069	Thank you. Saša Magazinović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5070	Here's a very short one. My colleague Bosić said, quote - We are going back to the positions that led to the war conflicts. Although a colleague of Bosić, most of them may not have been able to figure out who was going back to those positions, I call on him to be careful when he makes statements like this, because even though the president of the SDS does make one such statement fear in people, however many people claim that the party has been reformed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5071	The next one was Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5072	When you sat in four eyes with the SDS, there seemed to be no fear, only here in front of the cameras is fear. But well, that's now, I think I'm glad you were sitting and that's a good thing. I don't think there are any fears, and I don't think you understood what he was saying at all, at least I understood Mr. Bosić, in a completely different context, talking about inviting some anchored positions, although here we are trying to bring an end to this today, but it's not because some hypocritical attitudes come out and some pranks come out and some double standards come out. And then they say, to say we have 300,000 votes, we have the right to a member of the presidency, we have the right to the government of the Federation, we have the right to the Prime Minister, and it is in accordance with procedures and constitutional powers. It's not an ultimatum to get all that. That's the result of the vote. I agree, too. When someone else says we have the same number of votes, we have constitutional powers to behave like this, it says ultimatum. I was surprised by Mr. Džaferović. He surprised me. The Ultimateum is a small party with half the MPs. It's an ultimatum and blackmail. And he says I want to have what the eight-seat party has. There is no policy of gentlemen ultimatum without political power. But it's hypocritical because it's called something else. I don't want that political force to be recognised and it's said, I wish it wasn't so, so we'd call it an ultimatum. I mean, what happens to grandma if it's... that movie, you won't be expecting it. Our political forces are our political votes in the regular, democratic elections. And our behavior here is constitutional and our behavior here is according to the law. That someone doesn't like it and that someone wants to declare it an ultimatum and blackmail, it won't go away. We have our demands. Our demands, if they are bypassed democratically, but not according to what some here today have called for by violating constitutional and legal procedures 63 on, that we will declare it an ultimatum and then we will violate the procedure and the law so it is democratic, yet it is not. zaobići around, gentlemen, in the democratic procedure of the SNSD vote, respecting the country's constitution. Because this is all we propose in accordance with the Constitution of this country. And by declaring this an ultimatum, you are calling for extra-constitutional action and you want to solve this situation with extra-constitutional means, which is not acceptable. All the constitutional categories you were talking about, but only entity voting isn't a constitutional category. Gentlemen, that's hypocritical. It's like a hundred other terms, a position, whatever you want, a syntax, and it's a constitutional category. Legally, it's a right to say that in future changes, that there is a possibility that someone would stand up for something like this. But deny at this time that SNSD MPs today are legitimately, constitutionally in line with the voter's will in BiH will bring down Mr. Kukić's proposal, it is not right. You can't deny it as an ultimatum and blackmail. To call upon hundreds of thousands of RS voters to be based on them to belong to the ministerial positions of the Council of Ministers, that is not, ____________?) Time. I saw the way it was a relationship to time, and it's gonna be the same to me. So when someone with one MP is looking for something that doesn't belong to him, it's rape democracy. And when this political force in Parliament behind the SNSD, here's the SDS and the others, is looking for legitimate rights for, which are guaranteed by the Constitution, and that here is denied and some other scenario is called upon, I don't think it's good. What is the problem and where have we been acting, and what is our request for an ultimatum? Our demand for blackmail is because we think we need a rotation on the Council of Ministers as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5074	A colleague of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5075	I'm done. If this is a blackmail that we think should be changed by a Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak with political legality and legitimacy, if it's someone's blackmail, or if someone declares it blackmail, then we really don't understand each other, and then here go the two policies, one by road with another noise.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5076	Thank you. The replica was reported by Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5077	Well, you see, I'm not responding to this replica because I didn't expect or wanted to cause any reaction. So my intention was to try to change the atmosphere a little bit, but you see here whatever you say you have a preconception in advance that someone has some last thoughts about everything they say. Well, I don't know if to answer Mr. Magazinović's question, I'd have so few and few answers, it's better not to answer. But let me remind you, Mr. Lagumdžija, you said recently that the sixth possibility of this crisis is a war option or something. You said recently that, I don't know, Tripoli won't be what would be here with us. And don't play with words. Words are hard. Words lead to disaster at the end of politics. And that's why there's a responsibility for a spoken word that obviously doesn't exist with us because there's no awareness that each of us should have some level of self-censorship when it publicly delivers its opinions. Here's to using this replica and Mr. Džaferović to answer. There's nothing from dragging the international community into this problem of ours here. If that's what you're waiting for, if you think this crisis here, when it deepens, will lead to a solution that the international community is going to make some new Dayton and then meet someone in their political desires, you're wrong. The only solution in BiH is to give up these positions and talks by respecting each other's opinions. If that bothers you, if you consider someone else's opinion an ultimatum, then there's no room for a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5078	The replica was reported by Nermina Ćemalović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5079	You know, I've been in the SDP for a long time, and today I'm proud to be a member of the SDP. If the war had been mentioned in the SDP in this context, which Mr. Bosić has now said, she would never be here. You just know, gentlemen, here's the 5.5 hours we're discussing whether Mr. Kukić is, not how professional he is and how good he would be, and I'm sure he would be, that he's a lot like that and that he's one of the best here and that he'd certainly be a good representative and he'd represent the Council of Ministers. And I'm proud to vote for him. I'm proud of those 300,000 votes they gave us. I am proud to belong to a foreigner with 65 Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak and Rom. At the Municipal Council in Bihać Romaka, a girl who had no status and now a student is also a successful representative of the SDP in front of the Roma people. I believe that there are Židov and that the Židov have cast a voice, for to whom they will give a voice if they do not fight for the Srbin, and for the Hrvat, and for the Bošnjak, and for the Židov, and for the Jews, and for all the citizens of BiH. And you know what, somebody's been talking about it, Mr. Ljubić You've been talking about how many Hrvat have moved out. Believe it from Unsko-San canton there since the majority Bošnjak people have moved out a lot, but not because of the Hrvat and Srbin, but because of the economic situation, because of this bottom, the bottom we have. And believe me, tomorrow if the elections were, we'd see who the people would vote for, and believe that he would vote for wages, for work, he wouldn't vote for Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, or any other. And believe me, sir again to Božić, I mention to you since you mentioned many Hrvat, believe me, they are both hungry and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, and Srbin and all of them. I'm saying this with full right, because I know that we've been occupied and we haven't unblocked the Storm, and so forgive me if I'm going to say one thing now, after the Bošnjak that are on my heart, and I'm going to say emotionally, the Hrvat are in another place right now, because we welcomed them with our hearts and we should see what it looked like when the storm happened, you know. No, no, you know exactly what I mean, I mean, this people are hungry. And if the citizens listen to this, what we're talking about today for 5.5 hours,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5080	I'm asking your colleagues for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5081	Is Mr. Kukić, is he a real Hrvat or not a Hrvat? It's important that we have an expert. Here's what nobody told him about his plans, about the program, mostly about how many Hrvat are, and trust me again, I'll tell you, I'm proud to be SDP's.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5082	Thank you. Živković answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5083	Fellow Members, this is our first or second session, leave the hard words for one of the four years of the session, we discuss what occupation is, who you prefer, etc., etc. Here's what I'm saying is that we relax the situation before Mr. Kušljugić takes, as Džaferović said, to say that Mr. Đoković won without an entity vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5084	Is it a replica, is it a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5085	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5086	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5087	No, there's no replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5088	Come on, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5089	It's not the same trick Mr. Džaferović used. Replica, very short. In this conversation today, in this discussion today, I think we've touched the core problems and it's good to say it here and not in the media, because it's different when it's said in the media and it's different when it's brought out here. I think the wrong interpretation that Bosić made about Mr Lagumdžija's statement about possible war conflicts. Let him read exactly what was written there in that statement. Niko one called and called for war conflicts but warned that it was necessary to achieve everything, and here I am about to tell the SDP to try everything to reach some compromise. Mr. Kukić, your material is very good to share in writing, if anything, we had some material that we're starting to discuss on software. And to remind you, the SDP was the first to initiate immediately after the election of talks on the programme. We've had conversations with the SDS, we've also had conversations with the SNSD. I attended the talks we had in Sarajevo with the SNSD, and I was very happy when we started talking about the development opportunities in this country that Mr. Kukić mentioned that everyone in this country is saying that energy is a development opportunity for BiH. 67 Since I know a little more about warning you. In energy, we can block each other to infinity, which is what the Council of Ministers' past mandate showed, as did the last entity governments. Today, in BiH where we call foreign investors, Mr. Kukić, the account of the Elektroprenos BiH stands at 300 million marks for the investments that have been blocked. We can keep it going, that could be 400, 500. If we want to block, this Parliament can block all investments and energy, all, billions, if that's our goal. The SDP is trying to unblock it. We're trying, and we want to talk about it, and that's why I think it's good that we talked about this today. We were also talking about the program. We also talked about our visions of the problem. We've talked about the essence of political problems, but that's reality, that's what we're talking about in the media in the end. I think it's a good thing we said this here, not just in the media. And I'm just warning you, time on BiH's side, time is not on the side of the BiH citizens, time is not on the side of any of the entities, thus neither of the peoples in BiH. And that's why I agree with Mr. Bosić's proposal, so this goes into discussion, and I've spent three minutes, so you don't have to interrupt me. I agree that this kind of conversation is necessary to continue in the institutions of the system. Because there were a lot of conversations, were they mathematical or programming coalitions? Well, we had mathematical coalitions. The mathematical coalitions know how to get rid of them. They don't work. We'd better wear ourselves out and try to find a minimum program that unites us, a minimum program that allows us to do without these major problems being solved because we're not going to solve these big problems, that's for sure. We won't solve them in the next period. And that's how we conducted the talks at the beginning, we had some cut, and to finally say, we gave a written proposal to our coalition potential partners, we talked, we gave our views in writing. Some of us received written views, some of us did not, and then the negotiations stopped. Then the negotiations went all the way to the other side both in the Federation and in the state. Therefore, as SDP president, I, the party's representative who started the programme discussions, do not see that I personally, and also as a party, bear responsibility for this 9-month process. We are prepared, as the party president said, to continue the talks, but we are not ready to talk unless we discuss the programme. If we're not going to talk about the programmes, then it's definitely another three months, three more months, and the citizens of this country need to know. So let me get this straight, I'm not gonna use all 13 minutes. I was hoping that very soon in this House I would be able to do the things that I did in the Federal Parliament and try to move the processes concerning BiH's greatest development chances of energy. In the meantime, things happen dramatically 68 negative times. That's what the Council of Ministers knows. It does not inform parliament, but the Council of Ministers knows the situation in BiH regarding compliance with the obligations set out in the Energy Community Agreement. Not that we are going to miss out on the odds that we stand, but through these uncoordinated economic activities, we are going to have legal disputes that will be much more difficult than these political ones can agree on. If we go to courts, international courts, and we're very close to going to international courts about energy, we're playing a thin line, and I'm not telling you as an expert that I'm telling you as a man who talked to lawyers. I call on you once again, one - I do not think it was in vain for this session, I think that Mr. Kukić underlined one important thing in his presentation, which is that if he received most of the work of the Council of Ministers would be based on the strategic documents adopted by this Parliament, the development strategy and on other documents adopted by the Council of Ministers. If we don't go back to it, if we continue with the exclusions, even though we think differently about what exclusions are. I had one chance, there's Mr. Franjičević, we spoke very seriously and friendlyly, we know each other from the Federal Parliament, we don't really have the same views. But if we don't move a little bit of that point of view about what exclusion is and we don't come to some agreement that allows us to engage in dialogue and achieve consensus, then I'm afraid that the economic situation will be the one that makes this Parliament, first of all, because these other parliaments and governments are doing and trying to do what they can, to bear the greatest blame for the problems that are from its domain, or from the Council of Ministers' domains, and there is a lot of responsibility for the sector that I've talked about a little bit, regardless of what perception the state government is, as I call it, or the Council of Ministers or Council of Ministers, has responsibilities to the international obligations. - What's the matter with you? It is not my place to speak and repeat what the president of the SDP said, but the SDP is ready to continue the talks if we have a top problem on the table in the BiH state and if no positions are set. That is why I think Mr. Kukić's proposal was the way to reach and relax the situation. It wasn't a sneeze. It wasn't an incantation of the whole process, and in the end again, I don't respect Mr. Kukić which is the moment he saw that he didn't have a majority, he continued his activities, but I thank him because if we didn't get one document, we got one piece of paper that we discussed here and we hope we'll all get 69 in writing. Many have said that there are good things in it for the future work of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5091	I'd like to thank my colleague Kušljugić. We treated this as a discussion. The next word came from Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5092	Ladies and gentlemen, I actually wanted to give my support to Mr. Kukić, but a lot of what I wanted to say was said by Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Mirza and the Light motive to give up the discussion was actually given to me by Mr. Bosić whom I interestingly, completely understood in the replica, when he said that these things could be done differently. And here I invite us all to do it a little differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5093	Thank you. The word is Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5094	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, I don't know who provided us with this six-hour circus. It's very interesting that the media transfer of what's going on all the time. And I argue that we used 10% of the energy outside of these, the presence of the media, normally responsible people, so that a compromise could be reached and that in BiH instead of what is present today, I am very sorry for Mr Sava Kukić for being abused by a particular political bloc at a time and in a situation where in BiH we have the Constitution as it is and when it is a very sensitive issue when someone is saying that he is a winner and that it gives him legitimacy for everything. So no one wins in BiH. Often, winners absolutely act in terms of losers and against BiH's interest. In order to be winners, we would have to feel that in this situation today when it is spoken, when it comes to this programme that it has been presented, it would be best if Mr. Kukić had shared it, that without debate we had come to the conclusion of what everyone knows, that we had finished this story and tried together to come to a solution that would be positive. What's that we have reservations for? I'm talking about SNSD. Majorisation has been discussed here but a key problem most in BiH must be very sensitive is the marginalisation of constitutionally equal categories. This is a key problem where if this country wants its future and its perspective, it must build the same sense of understanding constitutionally equal categories regardless of the result and regardless of not only the election result, the overall state. When we try to say it another way, then every normal person will realize he's been cheated. If the goal of this story we're hearing right now is to applaud someone with 95 and see the public in Sarajevo, I must tell you right now, we have a completely wrong, completely opposite situation. We have the strong support of our constituency to remain firm on the principles that the Constitution guarantees us. It doesn't have any dilemma. And every time, here's the fifth year, anything that's closer to understanding, he has to be firmly convinced he can't give in, because in four or eight years, it would lead to the absolute marginalisation of key constitutional categories of constitutionality in BiH. That is why we are against, that this is how we are proposed and that, regardless of whether it is constitutional, whether the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Presidency is respected, that is the second part of the story. But this way creates uncertainty for each other and the other are both Hrvat and Srbin and the second and third, the first are only one, that he does not believe even when good intentions are present, what is the goal of it. And when it exposes the biggest political party or block of the largest political parties, unannounced for the candidate, regardless of his quality, there must be an absolute reserve. Because if it's about the Council of Ministers who are clearly defined by law and constitution, the participation of representatives of the constituent peoples, then we would have to believe that only this man does not decide and that this story of the programme is a simple demagogue story that has absolutely no value. The platform program is that. Because if there was a readiness for the platform platform's joint agreement, it would have been reached long ago. Of these key issues for BiH, this media juggling is more important, and the elected official, are in principle starting from all of us, the structural eccentrics we would have seven months ago the Council of Minsitarians, had a Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Is this what they want to show maximum demands? There's no place in any country in the world where the maximum demands are us... This has never led to stabilisation, especially in countries that are post-conflict. So a deal, understanding and a sense of willingness for it, would have to be much more valuable than any other story. If we think now, you know we have legitimacy. We'll have the legitimacy when I win Sarajevo, when you win Banja Luka, when I win Mostar. In that story I'm talking about. That means an absolute unitary model. It's hard to understand for most. That's the problem we've seen before. We saw the result of the problem of trying to dominate one another was the 90s. This has led to a dramatic 71 horrifyingly difficult development. Are we going to spend our energy on political stories and be ourselves anachrons? Because I think we're wasting our time. We have priorities that we absolutely don't argue about. Let us not argue that this country should be according to its constitutional structure, therefore, that its territorial integrity or sovereignty is not at stake. We do not dispute the issue of its European future and perspective. We don't dispute economic development issues, that's our goal all, but if you think that this story should exhaust 3 or 3, 5 or 4 million people, and say here we will lead to social unrest and then we will have a change by violence, I must say right now it's unrealistic, impossible, we won't have the support of anyone, any democratic principle and anywhere here, anywhere outside of this country, anywhere from the relevant forces (?). So the present story is often from reforms within the framework of auto-destruction in this country. There is an attempt to constitutionally end even through to the appearance of a formal matter because you will, we will satisfy some principle and we will do so. I think we're losing energy without need, we have to do more if we want to do our own good, if we want to do the job we've been chosen to do, if we want to work in terms of the perspective of the interest of our birds(?) Then it is time for us to respect the Constitution and try to solve with a patient democratic agreement what we should be interested in better living, having equal rights and developing at least how much, those around us, who are much faster. We don't, we're not inferiors, but we don't have to over anybody that any of us wants to dominate. That's what I want. So I think the key is the question... if we say, you know we're absolutely into it. It's not like that. It's not like that. I want to tell you that in medicine the key problem is the presence of a feeling that someone who is currently conditioned to a bad position might have the same right as this and the one who is now in some conditionalally dominant even though it is relatively dominant. So I'm very sorry about Mr. Sava Kukić, who is a victim of irrational approach, instead of having reform processes, maybe sometimes if we reach a consensus on something we can talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5095	Thank you, fellow Prodanović. Nermina Zaimović Uzunović reported on the first line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5096	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, co-chair, co-workers and colleagues, 72 I've been listening very closely to everything they've put out today, I haven't had a break, I haven't been out, I've been able to get back to you and discuss this all. I've heard a lot of interesting things, some of them I'd like to replicate and comment here. I just heard Professor Kukić was abused. I personally believe that Professor Kukić is honored with the opportunity and the opportunity to be a candidate for an honorable place, a very responsible duty that everyone has no opportunity to have and we don't have many experts that we can acquire, as I have heard here 500, but we have some people who, by their own knowledge, expertise, competence, visibility, can be recognized as non-party candidates, to be honored, not abused. That's my deep conviction. On the other hand, here's the problem, the story of representatives and members that I haven't found in any kind of legislation. But personally, nobody here can dispute the membership and representation of the Croatian people if they are already required to be according to the model of replacement, i.e. rotation at the head of the Council of Minsitarians, each time representatives, or members of another people. Completely legitimate, legal and representative and member and honorable and respected Professor Kukić. His program, and we seem to have had first of all on the agenda similarity of the topic and candidates. I just told you about the candidate. And on the subject, we all agreed that Professor Kukić has presented a very consistent programme to whom, of course, you can, if you are underprivileged, go into details and find comments. That depends again on watching. But definitely what there is a consensus in this House among all political actors, as those who make up the entity majority, I must say that everyone has a consensus on the path to the EU to NATO accession and, of course, for the adoption of minimum conditions for that path, and these are the first conditions that we all set. We say here is, which is why I finally came forward to replicate to a respected colleague, SDP, that he never called for pressures to violence. It's one wrong thesis and I won't interpret it as malicious. On the contrary, if one political party has made concessions in the negotiation process, then it must be said of the SDP. Since I've exhausted my time for replication, I'm free to report for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5097	Thank you. The replica was reported by Mr Franjičević, however, he cracked two replicas and a discussion. According to my records, two. But here's to not say we're not tolerated, so. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5098	No, no, it's not about tolerance, it's about misrepresentation of facts. I had one replica and one debate. So, here I will try to be as brief as possible, given that the distinguished Mrs. Uzunović said that Mr. Kukić and the member and representative, my replica consists of an infidelity which I will express - from what is this representative legitimacy of Mr. Kukić derived from? And in general, given that there were other similar attitudes in something different, we're actually all seeing, that we're not fooling ourselves here, there are two important different concepts or two significantly different views of the character of the state that we share. Our view is that BiH is a state of three constituent nations and that these three nations must be equal first. Secondly, each of these people must be able to choose for themselves and decide who will represent him in the institutions both the BiH states and other lower levels. And that's what we're arguing about. The second concept is that BiH is to the soul, a state of three constitutive peoples but it is also an important civil state, so the category of civil society is introduced as one of my deep convictions failed to justify the domination of one who is more numerous. I think that such a concept does not lead us well and that such an approach will not lead us to BiH that will be self-sustainable and will only be self-sustainable as a state that will be equally acceptable to Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin. A country in which one or another people can choose the political representatives of a third nation, its majority will, in spite of it, is not only sustainable and does not guarantee lasting peace and stability both in this area and beyond. I sincerely want to relate to what my colleague Kuršljugić was talking about. I agree completely that we have to go back to those kind of basic positions in order to,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5099	My colleague Franjičević, it is time for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5100	46 seconds. So here I'm going to finish, let's go back to those basic positions to come together by compromise to answer the question that, and achieve that answer equally acceptable to one, the other and the third. And just one more little thing, and then I'm absolutely done. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5101	I'm going to ask you not to warn you, you all know the business provisions and I would ask you all to really try to respect that Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5102	One more sentence. So if our approach is that what the other blackmail is looking for, and what I'm looking for, that's normal, then that kind of approach doesn't guarantee that we'll ever get to a healthy consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5103	A fellow Prodanović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5104	The chairman, dear colleague Nermina Zaimović, said I only wanted to explain. So in the context of this one, for Mr. Kukić, what I said. Well, I guess that's my idea. Perhaps Mr. Kukić thinks the winner is simply by having the opportunity to present this program of yours, he is not acceptable to us. He is absolutely identical to the goals and attitudes of a political party here that is present. But well, that's your attitude and your right. You know, and when you don't pass, you have a moral satiscation because of what you've been through. But what do I think you're being abused? I simply cannot, I apologize, there are no members of the Presidency who are asked to come today, but I am deeply convinced that neither Mr Komšić nor Izetbegović can be satisfied with what is happening in Parliament today. First of all, you've taken 10 days away from us and more than the meaning of a legal term allowed to declare a candidate for the board of directors. Secondly, if Mr Komšić says that BiH's Euro-Atlantic perspective is unquestionable and the goal, BiH's goal, then as a formal promoter both he and Mr Izetbegović had to consider whether it had a majority. Let's not talk now, there's one thing here today that's absolutely not with the Rules of Procedure, which is, we're saying whether a candidate for the chairman can get Parliament's support. Parliament's support implies both a simple and an entity majority. There's no story, you know, we represent, you know, the satisfaction that I got most of it, so now, what does that mean? We'll take it away from you, you can't even have 75 entity majority in it anymore. Then you'll say, it's not entity, it's ethnic, etc. And then those are stories that have absolutely nothing to do with the Constitution. So, the success of both Mr. Komšić and Mr. Izetbegović in the way of voting if you had received the largest number of votes, you would have looked at yourself only if they had provided their authority with the majority that you would have received here in the House in the way I had just said so. Secondly, if they were in the meantime, I think it's very embarrassing for Mr. Komšić to watch this. Mr. Izetbegović only followed him, since you have an agreement at the level of the Federation, it is easier for him but not an excuse. But it would have been a success if, even after this proposal of yours, it had been tried to reach an agreement that would have been appropriate. It is an agreement on a parliamentary majority that includes and the constitution of the Council of Minsitors and, uh, your vote here and a normally defined programme that would be acceptable to everyone. And just in the end, I didn't say you know the violence and the unrest, when I say, I didn't mean the SDP at all, but I just heard it from someone here, I don't know exactly who, when it's said you know, we want to watch this. But I'm telling you deeply everything here that feels the most negative about this, in Zvornik is the most positive. Let's try to find out what would be positive for both of us in this country. And it would be positive if we together created the average salary in this country to be, say, 1,200 marks instead of 800 marks. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5105	Dear Ambassador Adnan Bašić came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I know there's been a fatigue in the material, but at one point I felt like I should have opened up someone earlier, a panda's box, so I wonder if it's the same people who were having such a nice time finishing regular sessions and what's going on with us? Of course we made one big mistake at the beginning. We did not pay attention to what was happening, which is that only the vote at the BiH presidency actually brought this result. It was already said by the chairman 76 of the BiH presidency, that the parties from RS would not vote and that symbolic unit that was assigned to Mr. Kukić was supposed to be a guideline for all of us. Unfortunately, it seems that we've been waiting for this moment to open up all of the negativity we've held back during the previous sessions and you can see that it exploded today. I'm terribly sorry if this meeting today that we're having is publicly transmitted. I'm even more sorry if their Excellencys sit here, some ambassadors of friendly countries who follow our work. A very ugly and very negative image has gone into the world, and at the very beginning, as you yourself know by the finalization of our session, we have earned one huge and big point. And everyone expected us to keep doing that. I have a feeling by coincidenceing you all here, that Mr. Kukić, don't be angry, it seems you just needed to open all this. Why didn't the gentlemen of the great election winners correct the biggest mistake we have here, and that's evidence today's session, that this Parliament doesn't have the necessary majority. We're all aware there's no real work without it. It was nice, you saw when we might have forced the opportunity or maybe because we wanted to finish it, so nicely finished that last session. Expeditively, quickly, clearly and without any major problems. But when the first big problem that was set before us came up, here's what's going on. Mr. Savo Kukić will not be the prime minister, and all of us sitting here know it very well, and here we are tired, we are bothering each other, not to say a more difficult word. Why do we need that? Well, I'd understand that you're young enough to be in some student organization, so you're kidding, but I still think you're serious people. And this is like my coelgic, the most serious institution of a state. We should have finished this session a long time ago. We know the result, we know the vote, and why are we stalling, why are we prolonging the agony? And you saw that some heavy words had already fallen. You know, words are like birds in cages. Once you let them go, they never come back. And in Bosnia, there's a saying a long time ago that says... that it can... word rather than... saber. And at the end of the message for some. There's another one in Bosnia that I'm gonna end up with. My sons, there's no salamit of burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5107	I thank Ambassador Bašić. Mr. Slavko Jovičić answered for the discussion. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5108	Thank you, Your Honor. Is this a replica? Okay. So in this House, very, very rarely or very rarely, you will hear when someone has a presentation, when they are finished and that one of the MPs, a colleague, mentions a name and says all the honors, this is a good discussion. But for the replicas, the crowd. Now, this time, like every time, I want to say that Mr. Bašić was still the chairman of the temporary, did a big job, and now I'm saying that he told the truth that was told here and by me at the beginning, and thank Mr. Bašić, when I first replicated it. Well, it was logical for the prime minister to come to Parliament and say I have a majority, about the program you'll be doing, correcting or not knowing. But come out regardless of the most brilliant program, best written by world scientists, I don't know any experts, when you don't have most, it's a waste of your program. And now I'm not saying anything personally. The program as a program isn't bad. But what I'm asking is, is it possible for 90% of people in this relationship to realize anything from that program? I'm not giving anyone a lecture or a letter. The only programme of mandaters was this one, in three sentences and then BiH would move forward. I will do everything to co-operate with the government of the RS, the National Assembly of the RS and, of course, with the government of the Federation of BiH and the Parliament of BiH, and then when we reach an agreement in BiH, we will have progress. It's the only success program in this country. Write down what you want, consult whoever you want, you'll never realize if you go to a variant of pension fund reform, when it's not the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. The second thing, I can't really understand is that the President's exposé mentions a consensus. That has nothing to do with the Council of Minsitarians. Consensus is a constitutional category and will not be dealt with by the Council of Ministers or by anyone in the Council of Ministers. So, countless things and this isn't a criticism, and these aren't words for the mandate to write it down now and give me answers. I don't need any. The mandate came out here, legitimately right to say it, but we could've speeded all this up. But the only problem was that the prime minister was not lucky enough to be elected. That's the old lady, and we all talk like that, when you want someone good, she says, "Come on, happiness followed you." Now I'm changing it. Let the sick one catch up with me, what's to follow me, every living person in my life follows me. Lucky for you, the prime ministers, if anyone wanted you to, you'd be the prime minister. But someone told you happiness followed you, here's how far she escorted you, so you don't get elected. What do we do now? Lost time. And that's what I told you at the beginning of the first line. Don't people when you don't have most, we're wasting our time. We kill ourselves for nothing, for nothing, this people who watch this, no matter what their intentions are. I mean, I can have no idea what, but it's not possible to realize. 78 And when we entered with such a single rpemis, someone mentioned it with a variant that someone would change their mind at the last minute. Ha my people when that name appeared in the Presidency, everyone alive in this country and not in this House knew that the finals would be this today, that they would not get support and be elected. Now, if it's unfortunately or unfortunate, and I'm not speaking personally about a person, whether someone has abused a professor or not. I think the professor I've met many times on other occasions, we've had debates, abused himself. I can't believe Professor Kukić didn't realize he wasn't going to get most. Then what was the intention? To celebrate with this program. No, everyone knows Professor Kukić, he's had countless shows, they quote you there when you say something good, I say when you're not good, of course I'm attacking you. In that way. But what you are today, here I ask you as a man, I am not asking for an answer, you knew that you would not get support that you read the Scriptures here, the Kuran, the Bible, all of which you abused yourself. And it's not a problem that you're holding us this far but it's going to be a bigger problem when the chairman gives you the time to answer, because it's unlimited to keep us here until 10:00. If that was the goal, exorcising Parliament suddenly, that today someone... about voting if they came around around 12:00 get the support of that super-half, and then allegedly going with that, all of these scenarios are familiar with the variant of some consensus, so there's been some summoning of the international I don't know of the OHR, whom the High Representative, the ambassador, here today none of them were, this is not an illusion of what Mr. Džaferović was saying, because it's good that he warned us, but it's gone in this country, people. We don't want to help ourselves, and if we wanted to help, we'd have a new year. We'd have a budget a new year ago. Well, this program, I didn't get it in writing, but I listened very carefully. I'll say it 20 times because it's the key for me, even if you were chosen, and here you are fortunately, a little less head will hurt, and not what I wanted you not to be, but not you, you wouldn't do anything to make teachers out of this. You really live in some illusions in some world that this was possible what you wrote to realize. You wouldn't even be 95%. It's someone who stopped by and it's so strange for me to have you, a university professor, to be naive and to accept it. But if she wanted to end this shammoniade, so I'm not going to have some harder terms because I'm not into it, then she would have accepted that possibility that only existed. Let the legitimate representatives go, and everyone will count now, how. Well, someone set it up today, and I'm surprised those HDZ guys didn't respond. So he says how do you know? Well, fine, I see that... from the HDZ MPs and the other HDZ one or two, that's four. No, Mr. Jurišić, one 4:1 has always been more. People, that's most of it, at least I can compare it. But how no one's bothered about it today. Let's at least sort it out, that's it. Let's get rid of it. 79 So math is an exact science and there's no changing numbers there. That's the result. But good again so no one will tell me tomorrow how I defend the interests of the Hrvat. Well, I'm a man who defends the interest of all the 13 people here. I'm defending three. But what does that mean? Equality, rotation, consistency, constitutional categories, and you're all up to something about how to be a civil country. And last term, I was telling you guys. I appreciate every Bošnjak extremely. I appreciate every Hrvat. I appreciate my Srbin and I love them. I love other peoples, but I don't hate them, but I love my people, it's so everywhere. And it would be unfair and I'd be a demagogue and a liar if I didn't say so. But I'm not going to say, as distinguished colleague Nermin, I prefer Hrvat to Srbin. I love everything. I love you. But I can't make this public because of your husband and your wife.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5109	Let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5110	Mr. Bećirović, this is your policy. This is what we brought in to have this kind of relationship, that we don't know today when we're gonna finish our first session and we knew this finale when our session started? At 12:00, we were a little late. At 12:30 we knew the finals and we could go home 201. But all of this, when I say not you from the leadership upstairs, you knew everything when Professor Kukić first proposed that this would happen today. And here you go today. We're probably not gonna finish the session if you let the professor handle all this, he wouldn't answer in three days, so we'll continue in 10 days. So what do we get again? Come back here again and nothing. Now, that's the spilling from the hollow to the empty one. You know what I'm up against, and that's what I said last time, don't make an academy and art science out of Parliament. I respect academics. Politics, please, I didn't throw it to you. When you want to like one of these tall intellectuals, it's a code or I don't know the reason, politics is the art of possible. To make a man smart. And when you want to be a reality of BiH, then this is a policy, that no one will accept anyone, that no one will respect anyone, that no one will make any other concessions. Any concessions, based on what, where did we see them? Consensus, what consensus? Don't call for any more consensus. Consensus only exists when we gather in front of the restaurant. There isn't any here, look what we're up to today and what kind of debate we're having. So, gentlemen of the drama, you could have ended this 20 to 1 but here, whenever you finish the finale, it's going to be the same. Mr. Kukić will not be elected and let's go to Jovo for a new one. 17:22:54------------ 80 17:22:54
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5111	The replica was reported by Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5112	Thank you very much, chairman, co-chairing, honored ladies and gentlemen, at first I didn't think to answer, but ultimately irritated by this whole length of debate, so this whole conversation, I would like to ask perhaps some lawyer that I, as Mr. Sejdić and Finc, would like to file a complaint, because here as Hrvatica from the civil party, deny my right to represent the Hrvat. So I'm interested in whether there are any objective criteria on which to determine the level of my Croatianism. On that basis, we might come if we were all here, so on this objective, based on objective criteria, we might get some very surprising results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5113	Thank you. Mr. Boško Tomić answered for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the vice presidents, let me, if you calm them down, I will continue to speak, if not then, if you allow me to be involved in the debate by supporting what colleagues from the SNSD and the SDS from the RS have been saying and we have all agreed. The results of our agreements are precisely visible, we come from RS to a unity where we want BiH democratically, and we BiH in the EU, and we workers with salaries greater than 816 marks as average for the May month in BiH, and we want all to live better to return to their hearths of those who are not returned. And that's what my colleagues and all of you here from another BiH entity have been saying and it's a wish for all of us. Well, if it's a wish, then I'm calling for a little more understanding. At this point, it is known that two political parties and three political parties will not accept the mandate, it is known that the two HDZs will not accept it, which makes it close to 40% of the 81 parliaments. I know that 51% of the sum is enough to get a mandate. But is that correct in our long relationship? That's one small problem that makes it seem to me that Mr. Lagumdžija has called at some point, let's compromise, let's find new solutions. Now I call on you to find new solutions and give the Presidency not to get a vote, but to agree and to get the necessary majority of the assembly, and then there would be no debates like this. There was a discussion here, and if a man was reporting for replicas, he'd have to replicate a lot of times the amount of data they're from, they don't come from individuals. And when it comes to the exposé that Mr. Kukić made, I would also prefer that we got that exposure so that we read and look a little bit, and I expected that there would be a lot more promises in the exposé, that from the time you create the exposés if you didn't make the program and if you didn't say the way you're going to execute it, you could freely and more openly and boldly say that you're going to reduce the unemployment rate by not knowing so much, increase the wages, speed up European integration. However, he put it out in a very modest way, but in the end, these gentlemen are just wish lists. Much better could be written, but a list of wishes if there are no programs and ways to get to it then it's very difficult. Who can challenge any of the words presented by the gentleman, candidate for office when they are all explained in a quite good way, but we don't know how it can be solved. The unemployment rate with 40% can't be easily solved by anyone. So that's the problem this society is facing and we say we'll open up public works, investments, etc. How do we get investment in a country where we have a political situation like this? Here's today we can't agree on who we're going to choose as the prime minister. I, once again, suggest to people especially from political parties, the presidents of political parties who call for agreements and compromises, that they do so before they propose to the next prime minister, to provide the necessary parliamentary majority and to have an understanding of this gentleman who in some way feels insecure. Unlucky is anyone who tries to do another wrong thinks they'll get themselves much better, more rights, etc. I hope they're not such MPs. I hope we find better solutions. And that is why I call upon the gentleman who decides in the Presidency that the mandater should do so in a way that will satisfy the needs and interests of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5115	The replica was reported by counterpart Milorad Živković. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5116	I thank the chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, here's my distinguished colleague Mr. Ljubić asked me to say a few sentences to say what he couldn't because he had no right to more replicas, and the story is about the legality or legitimacy of any member of the people, because it's not a matter of birth or a matter of enrollment in any party but a matter of where you live, who votes for you and where you can come without fear from anyone. I don't know that Mr. Komšić is allowed to go to Grude. I've never seen him in those rooms in four years. I saw him sometimes in Eggs when it was the day of his former statehood, etc., etc. I would truly be very sad if I couldn't come to the city I was born from or into the city that chose me. But I can understand that they have a political programme of certain options that insist on civility. I can understand that they want to build in the Constitution, as it now says in the preamble, which is an integral part of Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement by Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat and the citizens and others, to move the citizens somewhere between Srbin and Hrvat, and then move them right behind Bošnjak and become Bošnjak citizens, Srbin and others. I understand that such options have and respect that they have citizens who vote that way. But I would also like them to understand that they have options that they think that with the policy that we've been listening to here all day, the principle of equality of the people is violated. A principle in which a nation is not allowed to elect its representatives in the executive power has been violated. And let it mean that they have options that defend that principle, if I'm already allowing you to have an opinion on civil society in BiH, and to tell me the same thing that is the measure between civil and national and why you don't show it specifically in municipalities where you have authority and that in all, after all the events that were in the former Yugoslavia, I am convinced that I am not afraid that your measure on civil and national is convincing to me. Because here I see parties that are extremely national, that have entered the story of that citizen just to see if the way you started the civility story will bring the result to BiH, and that is one man one vote, and for no other reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5117	Denis Bećirović reported on the first line. I want to say that I hope that we are all aware that this is a House of Representatives, a home of citizens, and this is where we were elected by the citizens of BiH. For some of the new MPs who are now in this meeting, I would remind them that citizens did not choose MPs to sit and sleep at Parliament's meetings but to represent citizens and political parties in the name of which they came here to Parliament, and I hope that we all know that. As far as I'm concerned, I consider the debate to be a constructive debate which was a toleranceal debate except for one MP, Mr. Lozančić, who allowed himself to be used in personal disqualifications, but of course I do not intend to descend to his level and speak in such a way. I was not elected by Mr Lozančić or HDZ policy and I am always ready to account for BiH citizens and those who chose me to fight for the BiH state of equal peoples and citizens. The BiH Parliament is a place where dialogue on BiH's development and where dialogue on BiH's future should be conducted. So I don't see what's going on all day if it takes two days and we talk about it here. This is the right place to talk about all topics of importance for BiH especially about what is on the agenda today, and the right place is not some institution past this highest legislative body in BiH. But in the end, the most important thing is that we all learn to accept a different opinion together. I suppose it is clear from all of us that no one today will change his opinion with whom he came to this session. I think we can share that impression together. So it would be good to try to find some touch points and run some positive processes. Today is the 04th session of the House of Representatives. We've made a lot of things positive and we've started, so now we don't count it all together. But for the more important step of this entire country forward, we must all finally understand that the policy of double arches will not move this country forward. If there is one criterion for legitimacy in the RS, another criterion for legitimacy in the Federation, the third one at the state level, we will always have a problem. We must also try to be principled when we talk about BiH as well as about the entire BiH state. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not having a hard time with any attacks, it's my job to fight for the state of BiH, for the state of equal nations and citizens, and I'm going to keep doing it with the same fire and energy as I've done so far. But I agree with those who said that time is not an ally. Time is not an ally of both the RS and the Federation of BiH or the state as a whole. This country needs compromises, healthy compromises, but we're not going to get to these compromises by getting one nonstop drop, 84 and the other treating each of these discounts as a weakness. That way we won't come to a compromise. The replica was answered by Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5119	I tell you the truth, I'm not sure whether I'm replicating Mr. Živković or Mr. Ljubić. From what I understand, Mr. Živković was a kind of trans-mission of Mr. Ljubić's answer to the question of Danijela Martinović. And I can tell you that I really, that I feel very uncomfortable, if I understand correctly, that Mr. Živković has passed on some of the criteria that Mr. Ljubić has told him that he is known to be a member of a people or a Croatian people. I'd really ask, I don't want to open any further replicas, I'd really ask all of us not to go into those spheres yet. So we're definitely people, I hope we're people and I'm really asking you don't make us do the criteria here and who's the real one, who's guilty, we're really going into the non-civilization sphere. We're probably human.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5120	The replica was answered by Mr. Saša Magazinović. And if they don't produce a new replica, we could end it then.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5121	No, it won't, it won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5123	It won't be safe. kolega Živković, therefore, did not say that you spoke on behalf of your colleague Ljubić, your discussion could have been understood because the question about President Komšić is not like you. I mean, you would never discuss it that way, and it's your choice to speak for someone else, carry someone's messages, it's no problem at all. So here I am now asking you to tell Mr Ljubić that Mr Komšić can come to any part of BiH whenever he wants, and therefore also to Gruda. And I ask you to tell him that we planned the campaign and started in Medjugorje, so it may have helped us win. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5124	I would now invite Mr. Slava Kukić to answer some questions that were heard during the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5125	Thank you very much, since I've heard there's a problem with misunderstanding here, I hope you'll understand what I'm saying, a team before we're lucky that, not by our own merit, we all become
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5126	I'm gonna ask you really now for some attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5127	We all get up overnight polyglots, right? Yes, I will not sue this House for these procedures, any mistakes in the procedure, no matter whether I have the right to do so or not. Of course, I won't answer, as Mr. Jovičić feared, I won't, and it won't be very long. Several times the thesis was said that I was abused, yes, and that here there is pity on my personality. Yeah, I can't influence that. The area of compassion is the area of human emotion. I must confess to you that I am truly honored, not really going into this debate of yours, but according to an estimate if BiH has about 4 million inhabitants I have received in this term the first chance, trust, so to speak to the Presidency to ask the House of Representatives for confidence in the term of office. Of course I'm honored. When I absorb that dimension, here to accept this thesis, if my under quotes are abuse, let's say one step towards forming an executive government in BiH, and let's say the calming of the political tensions that are so recognizable here today, I will be happy and for that, regardless of my abuse. Yeah, I've heard low blows here, and I won't answer them. They used to come from the same address. But as far as my competence is concerned, I think it's good to know, I'm the author of 18 books in three areas of sociology, politics and economy. Some of them are used as university textbooks in the entire 86 Croatian-Serbian-Montenegro speech area. I'm proud of that, too. Yeah, there were a lot of questions here where, compared to which I was at the beginning to submit the exozee to this House. Issues of legitimacy, entity voting, authorities in the Federation, etc., question of representation or membership, etc. I have a professorial attitude on these issues. Today I will not exploit it, I will not go back to the first part of the exposé because I speak in the capacity of the man appointed by the BiH Presidency by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the man asking you to support that function. But what I'm saying is, I can't help you with all the standards of this world unless there's human will. Hundreds of times it's been shown in history. You can have the Constitution of BiH whatever you want, ideal. It won't help if there's no human will. Yes, as far as I'm concerned as the professor of the BiH political system, I must admit that I'm uncomfortable with the level of knowledge of the Constitution. And that's where I'm gonna stop. And when it comes to my program that I addressed today asking for support from this House, you know, I'm very pleased with what I've heard. In fact, there were no significant objections to this program. Can this, like, etc., and all these suggestions are being put in. I just don't agree with the thesis that this program is unacceptable because it's a single party program. You know, I started by saying that there's a lot of what my predecessor said in January 2007, and it's an integral part of this program. And that wasn't one party program. Yeah, I agree, I agree, and that's why in my exposé, I've devoted half of the exposés to economic issues. I agree that in this country, it is much more important, at this point, to ensure the growth of living standards, to ensure employment growth, to ensure an average wage of 30 or 50% than to deal with issues that can be seen as rational, but it's a lot in them, it's very irrational. What's important and I accept it, it's really not up to me, it would be much better, I really didn't mind, so it's just the congregation service, is, this exposé was literally over three days ago. Technically, I didn't do anything on it, I'd be at this point, I admit I'm happy if he was divided. There was certainly a guy's objection all this is great, etc., but where's the answer to the question of how, right? You know the one who can answer that question about how to make a turn overnight in a country where 20 years goes back, deserves a Nobel Prize. I don't have that capacity, but I wouldn't run away from forming strong advisory teams tomorrow. We have extraordinary people professors from different areas, people in the area of business practice who can help us. And I don't think anyone, not even 87 of this Council of Ministers can just solve everything. A team before someone said it wasn't the government. And that's why I've often used the word "coordination", "cooperation," often. Because it's not about the government. It's about the Council of Ministers as a constitutional category that I respect. Eh, yeah, yeah, there was a suggestion that I should have returned the mandate. I've said on many occasions so far that decisions in general are hard to make in my life. But now that I've made it, then I'm trying to do everything I can to make that decision. I've made this decision very difficult. And I'm willing to do anything, and I'm still, uh, I'm still willing to help this country if I come to such an opportunity. It's a try, if I fail, my Bog, I won't be the first. And finally, I want to take this opportunity to thank you all, I really don't feel affected today personally, though. I think the worst solution is if the system goes under the allegations of movement, goes on forever with me or someone else, because we're all going to pay for it together. And those who come after us will pay. As far as I'm concerned, it's either trust or not, today or some other time, whenever I'm asked to put my intellectual and physical potential to help this country, so I'll be ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-1.u5128	I thank Mr. Kukić. I am closing the debate and, in accordance with the agreement of the College, we are giving a 30 minute break before the vote. 18:26:40 ____________18:26:40____________ [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded, and we're going to vote. Before the very act of voting, I would like to remind you of article 79. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which regulates the way decisions are made in the House as well as in Article 82. Article 3 A Rules of Procedure which, among other things, discusses a vote for the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. 88 Please, then, let us now join the vote. We vote on confirming the appointment of BiH Prime Minister's chairman, Mr. Slave Kukić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that 21 MPs voted against 14, 1 abstention. From Federation 21 to, 4 against, just to get our numbers back on display, for a stenogram, we have to figure out exactly, not one abstention from the Federation. Representatives from the RS, i.e. heads 0 for, 10 against, 1 abstention. I realize we have the necessary general majority, but we don't have the entity majority. We're moving on to alignment as a commission within the College. Here we have already agreed to go, we can go right now, but we have estimated that we will go to a later adjustment. [[Common discussion]]
