ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6307	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 10th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. MPs Mladen Bosić and Saša Magazinović justified their absence. There are currently 28 MPs present, according to information from the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I want to introduce you to the agenda that we have downloaded: - point 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH (first reading), as the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for a new opinion. The House College set 25 as a deadline. Ten. 2011; - point 8. Proposal for a conclusion on the approval of amendments to the Proposal for a Law on international and inter-entity road transport, Proposer: College of the House. Namely, the College of the House at the 13th session, held on 7. Nine. In 2011, he learned about the problem of continuing the parliamentary procedure on the proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport, and suggested that the House adopt this conclusion that you have all received. Day 21. Nine. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport has submitted a letter asking for the bill to be withdrawn from the procedure. And this memo you all got. I note that the proposed law is by the Council of Ministers of BiH. The House College in the extended composition unanimously decided that the best solution would be to continue parliamentary procedures in the Transport and Communications Commission, which was held at the 83rd session. Nine. In 2010, he returned a negative report. - We took off point 11. A statement on Parliamentarian Šefik Džaferović's initiative to include in the Labour Plan of the House of Representatives that the state of fulfilment of the obligations of BiH on its European, Euro-Atlantic and Security Road will be analysed each month, at the request of the Joint Commission on European Integration, which states that the Joint Commission was unable to secure a quorum for holding the session, and could not consider that initiative. We added to the agenda: - point 10. Appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people (Commission candidate list for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH); - point 11. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act; - point 15. Giving co-existence to ratify the Credit Agreement (Modernisation of the University of East Sarajevo) between BiH, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG; point 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Personal Card of BiH citizens has been supplemented by a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission that is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dušanka Majkić applied for a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6308	I would like to say the first thing about point 7 which is called the "Proposed Conclusions of the Joint Commission on Oversight of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the Review of the BiH Ministry of Security Report on Resumptive and Technical Supervision in the area of the Protection of Secret Information in 2010. Material number... of 27. 7.’ I really have to protest. The way it works in individual commissions is becoming problematic. So here came a clumsy name and I'm surprised that the secretary of this commission didn't take so much care that the name of this document would be in line with the Rules of Procedure. I remind you of article 47. ... talks about joint committees, which say the joint commissions give their opinions to their homes, submit proposals and reports and carry out other jobs as prescribed to the rules of procedure of both homes. This material should therefore be referred to as “The Opinion on the Annual Report on Operational and Technical Control in the field of the Protection of Secret Information”. So we are discussing this document, with the Commission's opinion. I'm asking you in the College to take care of such failures. So we are not discussing the conclusions, as it stands here, but discussing the Commission's Opinion on the Annual Report on the work of that part of the Ministry of Security. So, in the future, to take care of it, and I think that the secretaries who are very highly ranked at the ministerial assistant's posts so that they can learn a little something or restore knowledge, if they have lost it in the meantime. That's one thing. 3 And another thing I'd like to point out to my colleague. We have adopted different reports from the BiH institutions so far, but I remind you that we have not adopted a report on the work of the House of Representatives Commissions of the Parliamentary Assembly, nor on the work plan of the House of Representatives committees and joint committees of the Parliamentary House. So, I'm asking the College to put it on, it's absurd, here's the end of the ninth month, we haven't adopted a plan yet, a report on work for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6309	I remind you, we are currently on the agenda. So at this point in the agenda, it would be good to focus on exactly what we're looking for, to possibly supplement the agenda, or to ask it to get off the agenda. So let's be exact at this point in the agenda. When it comes to the secretaries of the commission, I hope that the commissions in co-operation with the secretaries will allow the Commission to make all that is adopted on the committees and proposed to reach the College in an adequate manner, later on and to the House of Representatives. ... We have a line: Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6310	I thought I made myself clear. So this is the agenda item called the Annual Report on Operational and Technical Control in the field of the Protection of Secret Information, document 21. Six. In 2011, with the Commission's opinion, I think I made myself clear. That's how all the documents so far were conducted...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6311	I think it's all clear to the end. Yesterday, we also had a tight colleague of the House and an extended colleague of the House. Also, the representatives of your party participate, we unanimously came up with a proposal for this agenda. I would ask, not only this opportunity, but all the other clubs that some of the things inside the clubs to define them both on the enlarged college and to work more efficiently when we come to the session. Beriz Belkić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6312	I don't have a specific agenda proposal, but I do need to comment on a phenomenon that will obviously be in the next period. So it's simply said that the agenda has been removed, because there was no quorum, the commission hasn't considered etc., and we just accept it and move on. So, I suggest that when a situation like this happens, the College finds out, that is, that the President of the Commission informs the College who it wasn't and why it wasn't, then, that it was publicly announced here that the commission wasn't held. We have committees where people never came on board. So, these people need to say whether they're going to work or not, please. So, in the future, I suggest that this home, when it pulls off the agenda because four competent committees didn't deliver an opinion or report, simply announce why it didn't happen, because we have no other measures. And by the way, when I checked in, Azra Hadžiahmetović is officially absent, due to the minutes, attending this annual International Monetary Fund assembly. She probably didn't call the service.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6313	Thank you. The suggestions of counterpart Belkić that in the future, when the point comes down, which is why some points are removed from the agenda, we will also consider this on the College of the House and on the Enlarged College. Here, personally, I don't think that's a bad idea. I suggest we accept this agenda and respect this suggestion. Replica, colleague Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6314	Mr. Chairman, of course, replica. Yes, I support what my colleague Belkić said, but since the same substance is the discussion between Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Belkić, you do not need to make that difference. Everything you said about Mr. Belkić, you should have said about Mrs. Majkić, who gave a very correct suggestion and you should have accepted that suggestion. You do not have to accept it and welcome each time with a previously formed opinion on what Mrs. Majkić said. So she gave the correct warning. We went to college and we ran facts about mandatory points, and you know how we work. This was one correct suggestion to be respected, because those who know the essence of matter have a chance to say it today. And she was clear. Nor ask for a download, but it is the same, which is very correct from counterpart Belkić, a suggestion about the agenda points. I ask you to correct this behavior when it comes to the very correct suggestions of Members who make it easier for you to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6315	I don't know why you're in such a hurry. I just, before you get back to me right now, I want to say and suggest to the House that we accept this suggestion by Mrs. Majkić and formulate this point,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6316	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6317	So let's formulate this point that way and clarify this question. And when it comes to these other suggestions, we're not going to tell each MP a few things individually. They've had enough experience to know when we're on the agenda of what's subject to review at that point. So we can conclude that we have accepted the agenda of the 10th session of the House of Representatives, with this amendment, so that point 7 would be considered the opinion of the Joint Commission and this as it goes on. 5 So the agenda of the 10th session 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-111, of 3. 2. 2011 with the Constitutional Commission Report; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1411, of 18. 8. 2011 (second reading); 5. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01-02-1-85311, dated 28. Seven. 2011; 6. Report on agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-28-89311, of 25. 8. 2011; 7. Opinion of the Joint Commission for the Control of Labour of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency for the Review of the BiH Ministry's report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the field of the protection of classified data in 2010, material No 01,02-04-62811, of 27. Seven. 2011; 8 / 8 The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Mirza Kušljugić's initiative that the House of Representatives in the agenda of the session, to be held in September 2011, put the point "The analysis of the implementation of the commitments undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina through the signing of international agreements in the field of energy"; 9. Report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 10. The appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people, material No.01-50-19-97411, of 15. Nine. 2011 (List of Commission candidates for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH); 11. Appointing three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act; 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Co-ordination Committee Agreement under the Ministerial Defence Process in South East Europe; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing an international classification of the figurative elements of stamps, made in Vienna on 12 June 1973, with amendments from 1 October 1985; 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court (ICC); 6 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Modernisation of the University of East Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG; 16. Giving consent to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the settlement of the debt of the Republic of Albania relating to the account amount based on the exchange of goods between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia; 18. Granting consent to the cancellation of the Convention on the Protection of Motherhood No. 3 of 1919 International Labour Organization. We're moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 9th session
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6320	So, I have one specific remark, but I'm more exposed to it because of possibly some kind of standardisation of the rules in making up the minutes. So on page 7 of point 3 it is said "Azra Hadžiahmetović participated in the debate". Several people participated in the debate, and Mladen Bosić, and Milorad Živković, and myself, etc. So, no debate if one participated, she might have given an introductory notice. So let's do some kind of standardisation. If we're going to list who took part in the debate, we should list everything. I remember there have been objections here in the last term why there have been no quotes of some discussions, some statements, etc. So, if we can at least get all the debaters or no one: any debate, and no one to make out or all of it. So here's page seven point three, there's been a discussion of four or five people. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6321	... keeping in mind that all MPs have the right to receive and transcript from the session, so that if they want more information on the course of the debate, they can also find out. [[microphone is not enabled]] I find that there are no more reported within this first item of the agenda. 7 Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2 Legislative questions (a) Comments on answers received By today's session, they were asked questions: Nermin Purić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the 3rd session of the House; Milorad Živković of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the 5th session of the House of Ministers; Azra Hadžiahmetović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the Mehmedović session of the House; Dušanka Majkić of the BiH Attorney's Office, asked questions at the 5th session of the BiH Council of Ministers, asked at the 5th session of the House; Niko Lozančić of the Prosecutors of BiH, asked at the 7th session of the House; Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic of the BiH State Service Agency, asked questions at the 8th session of the House. Also, at the 9th session, due to the time foreseen for commenting on the questions raised, Lazar Prodanović did not comment on the response received by the BiH Council of Ministers to the 5th session, so that he can do so at this session. So before we start asking new questions, first I ask if there are any comments on the answers received? The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6323	So, I would like to thank the pravobranilaštvo General for the answer he sent to the question: "How many working-law disputes were launched at the time of the Ministerial of the Zlatko Lagumdžija at the head of the Foreign Ministry and for what? " And here, the citizens of this country now know that around 450,000 marks have been spent on irresponsible work and business within the Ministry during the work of Zlatko Lagumdžija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6324	It was Dušanka Majkić's comment. Let's move on. Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6325	Thank you very much. I welcome you all very much. I want to thank you for the truly quick answer to the question I asked at the 8th session and addressed to the BiH State Service Agency. Namely, I asked that the contest which was announced for the election and appointment of members of the Board of State Board of Appeal be annulled. I have directed the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Agency and my request to cancel the contest was not adopted because it did not comply with the law, but pointed to another fact 8 that our law is such that everyone in the region is laughing at us and the full newspaper was a comment on the provisions of our State Service Act. Here is an opportunity to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on State Service, which was last amended in 2009 and which in its Article 22 has a very, very interesting and unusual provision that states that the legal consequences of the conviction for the crime of domestic violence have ceased in accordance with criminal law. Of course, this is the only crime for which, after the legal consequences of the punished person have expired, the person is amnesty. And it would be very interesting to have a debate on this subject about the State Service Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6326	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6327	Here, President, one explanation, that is, a request. So, I didn't get an answer to the parliamentary question, but Azra Hadžiahmetović authorised me to make her comment on the answer, if you will.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6329	So the question was, "What is the status of the Agreement amending the Social Security Agreement between Slovenia and BiH?" It's a very simple question. She got an answer from two ministries. The Council of Ministers forwarded both responses. One of the ministries, we were unable to determine which is, is responsible for waiting for the BiH House of Representatives' consent, or the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to ratify the agreement. And the second ministry responds that it is just waiting to be published in the BiH Official Journal, because the procedure is over. So you just don't know what these two are right now. And we ask the Council of Ministers to see and to bring it together. And there's no need in general. Let's say one answer is the whole history, when the retail negotiations started, so the signatures, so here you need a simple answer, you have to say published, unpublished, it's in effect, it's not in force, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6330	The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I'm not in a position to thank you for your agreement because gentlemen, individual gentlemen, the men of the Council of Ministers think they can behave that way. I think it's very incorrect. We have repeatedly warned, if it is a technical mandate, it is not to hold this parliament, and now they are doing jobs on behalf of the state and they are obliged to take account of it. The fact is that they have one story in front of the cameras, and the fact is that, on some issues, within the Council of Ministers, there is a greater brotherhood and unity than during Branko and Hamdia and others. And don't let them fool themselves, they won't get away with it. We'll biti very persistent. We have answers, there's just no signature of an authorized person who needs to give an answer. So let's not think we don't have that answer. We will find ways to resolve this issue, and what they think is that, in the technical mandate, they do not need to account, I guess we will also find an answer to such a question. I'm sure we'll find a way out of this. And my application to the Kolegijum to do what it can when it comes to the emergency and the rest of this kind, I have to call it rude, because it's a response that can be written for some two minutes, but persistently, persistently, even though there are more than one emergency, more demands, we don't get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6332	Thank you. As far as the House of Representatives' College is concerned, we have several times asked for the urgency of all those who should have provided answers to the questions asked in this highest legislative body. In this regard, we also call once again on the Council of Ministers to do its part of the work and to deliver within the deadlines provided for by the Rules of Procedure the answers to parliamentary questions. Whether the mandate is technically or not technical, this is not at all relevant. So they're obliged while they're at it to deliver answers. We're done with the comments. (b) New parliamentary questions Slavko Jovičić reported on the new parliamentary issues first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6334	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I have two parliamentary questions. The first is addressed to the defence minister, Mr Selmi Cikotić, and it says: "What will the Ministry of Defence carry out and when and any investigation and will determine responsibility for those members of the Armed Forces of BiH who knew about the existence of a mass grave for killed Serb 10 soldiers and civilians in the barracks "Adil Bešić" in Bihac, knowingly covering up evidence of war crimes committed and protecting the perpetrators of these crimes?" A very brief explanation, since you will receive in writing a letter. So, it's fresh, it happened recently. On September 19th and 20th of this year, according to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, members of the RS government's Operational Team to seek the missing in the presence of representatives of the Prosecutor's Office and the Institute for the Search for Missing BiH, SIPA, of course, and all those agencies participating in such procedures have exhumed eight bodies of Serb soldiers and civilians from a mass grave in the barracks "Adil Besic", or former Kasnar on July 27th in Bihać. According to these preliminary findings of the investigation that found parts of the wire on the murdered, so previously abused, with their hands tied, exhumed bodies and., it was the victims of war crimes committed by members of the BiH Army of V. Corrupus in '94. and '95. the year in the barracks, which is now under investigation in the indictment of the BiH Prosecutor's Office against three members of the Corps. Information from the RS government's operational team on missing persons suggests it was from the same mass grave in '96. The six bodies of killed Serb soldiers and civilians exchanged with the Serbian side have already been removed. According to this information, BiH Army officials, later the Federation Army, had to know about the existence of the mass grave at the end of the BiH Armed Forces that commanded these military facilities. And full, here, for 16 years they refused... to the authorities to provide any information about it. This specifically refers to the last year when, according to the RS government's Operational Team, the leadership of these barracks did everything to cover up these crimes. And one question for you, very quickly, Mr. Chairman. So, from the moment you entered this position, which is good and everyone congratulated you, you have introduced one practice that is good, you give a letter to all parliaments without the consent of the College. By congratulating the other day of statehood and I don't know the parliament, or God Bog, that's fine. But when you addressed the movie about Srebrenica, the parliaments of Sweden and Denmark, you did so on your own initiative and, of course, without my support, let alone without the support of the College, and I ask you to agree in the College when you give someone congratulations or when you protest or when you point out anything that you do not do so on your own initiative. You'll get, not to explain, written questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6335	I just want to ask you for this second question whether you want an oral answer immediately or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6336	I'd like you to write it to me in writing, because I know what your answer will be, so it's not communication between you and me, but in writing to answer that. But it would be best if you agreed in the College that you would write letters that everyone would support in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6337	Okay. Thank you for asking. You'll get a written answer. The next parliamentary question is asked by Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6338	My question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The BiH Food Safety Agency was established as an independent administrative organisation by the 2005 Council of Ministers' Decision on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations under the Food Law. The Agency's headquarters is in Mostar. The bodies of the Agency are: The Governing Board of 15 members, the Advisory Council of 15 members, the Scientific Council of 14 members, 8 scientific committees, do not know how many members they have. Please answer the following question: '1. How many members of the Committees of the Food Safety Agency? List all the names of the scientific committees. 2. To draw up a list of members by name, last name, function, academic title, place of employment and other relevant data from all bodies of the Agency. 3. Provide information on the monthly amount of compensation for all members and total for all bodies of the Agency. 4. To provide information on the total financial compensation for work in 2010 for all members and all bodies of the Agency. Thank you.'
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6339	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6340	Thank you very much. I, on this occasion, want to set up an initiative to pass legislation in the area of higher education. Regardless of the funds that this state allocates and whatever funds that the international community through funds, different funds, today united under the IPA funds, has allocated huge resources, our higher education, according to an assessment of international factors, is getting worse and worse. In order to improve this situation in some ways, I am initiating an initiative to pass the following laws. First, a law on the BiH qualification framework. Making the national qualification framework is the obligation of all EU members, as well as those who want to achieve candidate status. This is an obligation that is ours, accepted and recommended by the European Parliament and the Council on the establishment of a European qualification framework for lifelong learning. Once all qualifications are implemented in the education system as well, the State should organise an external evaluation to demonstrate that its national qualification framework is in line with the European framework. Every day I almost get e-mails from students who have finished some college and don't exist anywhere and can't get a job. And I'll take it publicly, especially. Then the second law, the state graduation law. A system of external evaluation of knowledge, competences and skills of graduates is established by the State Graduation Act in order to level-equate and 12 quality secondary education in various parts of BiH. In such a system, reception exams at universities are abolished, only the results of external graduation are valued. The third law for which I launch the initiative is a framework law on quality assurance in higher education. The obligation to establish a quality system in higher education has taken over BiH by joining the Bologna process in Berlin in 2003, and the Conference of European Education Ministers in Bergen requires and full participation and delegations bh. In 2005, the minister adopted standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European higher education area. The framework law does not clearly stipulate the obligation of higher education institutions, so the Framework Law and the purpose and role of accreditation of the system of accreditation of higher education institutions should therefore be amended, and we know that our deadline is 15.8. I also initiated a public debate. This parliament has reached the conclusion that an urgent public debate on higher education is being held, because we have on the scene today, here I asked the question last time, we have a new set of colleges in Brcko District. By emergency procedure, without any circumstances, I appeal to you... to initiate a public debate on these issues as soon as possible. The fourth law is also a law on the recognition of foreign qualifications in the area of higher education, and the basis for the adoption of this law is the Council of Europe Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European region and the Lisbon Convention, which BiH ratified and published in 2003. ... I refer this initiative to the Ministry of Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6341	Thank you. Time's up. NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6342	: I know they are in the technical mandate, but the administration that works is not in the technical mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6343	Thank you. The word is Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6344	My colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, you who are present here, regardless of the technical mandate, I welcome you. I ask a representative question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport and to the Council of Ministers: 'What is the current phase, which is the following steps in the process of establishing a channel on the Croatian jazz within the Public System of the Croatian TV System of BiH, and are the upcoming digitisation of public TV services in BiH planned technical capacities that could meet the needs of the introduction of channels in the Croatian Japanese?' 13 Explanation: The House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH concluded on 17 September 2008 that, I quote, 'the Council of Ministers undertakes to immediately initiate the procedure for the establishment of a new TV channel in the Croatian language within the Public TV System of BiH on the basis of the provisions of Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the Public TV System of BiH'. Accordingly, at its 61st session, held on 7 October 2008, the Council of Ministers took note of the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH since 17 September 2008 and tasked the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to realise the above mentioned conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I ask the chairman to ensure peace here in the hall so that I can concentrate on asking questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6345	I would ask the MPs indeed to respect, first of all, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6346	Thank you very much. It should not be demonstrated that the position of the Croatian people in the existing public service system is uneven, taking into account that the existing two entity services under the dominant influence of the political elites of the majority in these entities, and that the management and editorial structure of BHRT is almost uniform. I consider the current situation unsustainable and as a political representative of Hrvat, Srbin, Bošnjak and other BiH citizens, I demand that the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly realise their conclusions. In fact, when we took the oath here, we all swore that we would protect the BiH Constitution, the equality of its peoples and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6347	I thank Mr. Ljubić. The word has Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6348	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I have one parliamentary question which I refer to the BiH Council of Ministers: 'The foreign investors' council in BiH have repeatedly pointed to the problem of the lack of an adequate institutional framework for trading of greenhouse gas emission permits. In this regard, have preparations been made for the establishment of a national body for the collection of offers and issue of ETS licences? I beg your written answer." Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6349	The word is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6350	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here, we are all aware of one fact here that lately BiH has been shaking different affairs, I think, of a criminal character affair. One of the last ones is the one that included the employees of the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Border Police and Customs on smuggling, meaning goods smuggling, high-tariff goods, and where the affair, I must say, has received so much media attention and in the entire BiH public, but I am surprised by a much bigger affair in BiH, such shyly appearing either in the newspaper and on television, which is an affair on the disappearance of 11-530 kg of explosives and 7-8 thousand of trombone mines. Therefore, I ask the BiH Ministry of Defence a question, or rather I ask the Ministry of Defence, as a representative, and I think this House has the right to be fully aware of this -- information about the disappearance of explosives, which was to be destroyed in the BiH Presidency Decision, and the disappearance of the tromblones, and whether the BiH Defence Ministry has launched certain activities in connection with the processing of those responsible for this case and whether these quantities of explosives and these explosive devices have been known to have ended. I think this endangers both the security of the citizens and the property of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6351	Thank you. The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6352	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, I welcome you all, of course, as well as our guests. I have a proposal for an initiative. Given that the law on the environment at country level provides for harmonised environmental protection without the relevant legal and institutional frameworks being adopted, I propose establishing a state body for environmental protection, which is the priority of the European Partnership. According to the 2010 BiH Progress Report, environmental bodies do not have the capacity to implement and implement legislation, both at entity, cantonal, and local level in this area. It's an initiative. And I have a parliamentary question: "What about the export promotion strategy and can it be expected soon?" I'm asking the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6353	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I have one initiative, and it says: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge, i.e. the Resort Ministry, that, as soon as possible, the preparation of the House of Representatives and the delivery of full information on the situation and problems in the implementation of the visa-free regime for BiH, with a special reference to the emergence of abuse of asylum by BiH citizens and citizens of neighbouring countries, and to the detriment of BiH, which is being threatened by the visa-free regime for BiH.' It does not need to be particularly stressed how important this is for BiH citizens. And these days we have different information about this in the media, so I think that Parliament, or the House of Representatives, deserves one full piece of information about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6355	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6356	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a parliamentary question that I will refer to the Council of Ministers, because it's kind of volunteered in this matter. The five-year plan to resuscitate the main roads, adopted by the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, realised a loan for the Public Enterprise of the BiH Highway of the European Investment Bank, and an international competition was launched in May this year. Afterwards, the selected contractors have been confirmed by the European Investment Bank and a corresponding guarantee has been paid. The construction season is slowly passing, however, since the realization and introduction of these selected performers to this day there is nothing. There are different stories about the reasons why it is. As I come from one environment in which one of the selected performers who should consume significant funds works, and as it comes to the company that is privatized, holding on to those 'workers' factories, therefore shareholders are employed workers in it, there are stories that some local tycoons have thrown their eye at this company and want to buy it cheaply in a way that previously, of course, starves these shareholders, so the workers, in some way, are talking about some kind of working self-management. Therefore, I ask this question: 'What stage is the realisation of this loan, and why have the selected performers not already been introduced into the business?'
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6357	The word has Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 16 Dear colleagues and respected MPs and MPs, I will have a bit of a relaxing topic of these difficult political issues. I'm going to ask you, first of all, Mr. Chairman, after a brief introduction that I'm about to give to my esteemed and esteemed colleague, Mrs. Dervoz, to allow you to read the written text of my initiative for me to make a bitter joke about the technical problems I have. This country is also too torn down and torn down on all matters, both the human and the material ones. I'm starting a nice initiative that's almost 35 years old in the local community that I come from. From the text of this which you will hear you will understand what it is. In fact, it is difficult in an industrial zone such as the community that will be mentioned here to bring the beauty of life, the beauty of life and the atmosphere of a beautiful environment into a small place where there has been heavy industrial pollution for decades, such as the town of Kakanja. There are all those dangerous, very dangerous environmental pollutions that carry out cements, thermopower plants, mines, now the old highway, now and a new one that practically passes through the city center. I'm trying to get this initiative back to the will and desire for a better life in that environment. It is of wider social importance, believe me, to build something as beautiful as this, it is the beauty of life for all of us, not just for those who directly benefit from it. I will wait for Mrs. Dervos to read to understand what this is about, and I am only sending a beautiful human message – let us do something nice for our man and let the people know. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Dervoz.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6359	I thank Mr. Bašić, and here's the word for Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Adnan Bašić's initiative to launch projects to exploit natural resources that will enable the employment of residents in the Kakanj municipality. A possible proposal is a project to build a spa in Ticici in the Kakanj municipality. At this site, over 35 years of hot water, medicinal, thermal water, temperature 62 degrees C, flows in grants without controlled exploitation. We appeal to entities that can influence the possibility of building economic, health or tourist facilities at the mentioned location from the aspect of employment and household management of natural resources as quickly as possible. In the middle of September, Kakanj took over in the Zenica-Doboj canton of the city in mid-September, which has the most unemployed working age population. We remind you that the alternative road is not made and traffic is being difficult. The state of air pollution, apart from industry, has also been disrupted by the construction of the highway, and therefore we believe that it would be necessary, fair, fair and fair to the local community, that citizens feel by building such objects and positive effects that can bring new opportunities for the employment of the population. Mr. Bašić's parliamentary initiative is addressed to the Federation of BiH government. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6361	Thank you. The word has an MP, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6362	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, therefore, given this atmosphere in BiH that we are working in, and I would take advantage of one saying, we are working in a way that says a song is ori, the voice is not heard, approximately in that intensity is this parliament. And of course, it is obvious when we look at... the technical mandate of the Council of Ministers, that the motivation of our MPs that certain types of initiative or questions ask is not very special. But this time, I have chosen to ask one question since, let me say, the reason for this question has been given by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs of our Parliament, which, among other things, is the issue of agriculture, and in relation to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, which I am sure, many economic operators, here to say, will make life more difficult and this is the case in difficult conditions. Simply, life goes even though we don't take on certain, here's to say, activities that should be put into office by the Council of Ministers in that function that will allow businesses to work better and easier. The commission is also proposing to the House of Representatives that the Council of Ministers and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce form a comprehensive analysis of what will happen, which are positive and negative effects from the moment the Republic of Croatia is in the EU. To try to ask for at least one example of what will happen to our businessmen, who are now having a hard time doing business, I will try to deliver one question to me asking what all BiH exports, especially when it comes to, say, products of animal origin. Interesting in this area, I have learned that only in fisheries are we able to export to EU countries and that the quota for these exports is very low, and customs rates are for those products, so when this customs rate is filled, then 8.4% is then paid, which brings these producers into a very difficult position when it is considered that, for example, other countries that import into our area have a customs rate of 0%. It's not only about EU countries, it's about, for example, Turkey is one of the importers of this product here in BiH. My question is,... and concerns the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, when it comes to the export of goods, since total annual production is just, for example, an example. trout here in BiH 6000 kg, 6,000 tonnes. According to my knowledge, I said, this product has met the EU's full requirements and is allowed to export to the EU. So: 'What activities will be conducted in the Ministry to increase this export contingent which, according to my knowledge, I could find, taking an interest in this topic – only for 2008 (I apologize for not having enough information) is, for example, in that year. This quota was 60 tons? So at least a third of this total quota would be something that would lead producers in this area to a far better position." 18 Here is simply to try a little while until we come to this topic, and I would like to invite my fellow Members to make this issue of Croatia's entry into the EU, I say, our debates, because it seems to be a serious problem. Just to point out that we only have two border crossings from BiH, which will, therefore, be in the post of exiting BiH goods towards Croatia. The problems will also be with the constituent peoples, and entities, and manufacturers, and everyone else. Here I was looking for some question that might somehow bring this question, here's to say, while we're here We work in the atmosphere in which we work and we don't get, to say, this Council of Ministers institution so that we MPs can get more motivation and ask this same Council of Ministers to do something more. [[as I said at the beginning, the song is plowed, the voice can't be heard]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6363	Thank you. The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6364	Mr. Chairman, allow me to greet you and everyone present as well. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, further to the Foreign Trade Chamber and the Export Promotion Agency: 'BiH has not yet adopted a state-level export strategy that would clearly define priority sectors of exports, problems encountered, and an action plan for export development. There is also no adequate institutional framework to support small and medium-sized enterprises at any level of government. Small enterprises cannot be found on the list of exporters other than wooden construction.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6365	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6366	My explanation is that given that the domestic market is little and that the purchasing power of us is very low, bh. Businesses have to look for their chance for the placement of goods on the foreign market, which is a key factor in the development of BiH's economy, not only the Federation of BiH. My question is, "What is this case and what has been done?" And I ask you a written answer."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6367	Thank you. And I have three parliamentary questions that I deliver in writing. This concludes the debate within the second item of the agenda. 19 We move to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Citizens of BiH, with the Report of the Constitutional Commission, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 8th session of the House, held on 25th 8. In 2011, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The report was submitted by the Constitutional Legal Commission 19. Nine. In 2011, and the Commission did not adopt the text of the draft law. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Is there anyone on behalf of this committee or from those present? Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6369	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this law has come from the Council of Ministers. As far as I know, the text of the Bill on the Council of Ministers was unanimously established, there was no dispute and the aim of this law is that when the next exchange of ID cards in BiH comes, it is the beginning of 2013, in a document called the ID card, a personal document, and biometric data. So that's the point of these changes. Then the point is to enable electronic signatures to those who want it and the purpose of the change is to take over the ID card through mail, not directly, because including biometric data provides a document and then there is no need to always do it directly or through the proxies and thus makes it easier for citizens to do it, to get to this document, to achieve this right and obligation. When the law came to parliamentary procedure, I, right to tell you, thought this thing would go much simpler and, as far as I'm concerned, I support the original text of this law with the intentions of the legislator. However, in the amendment phase amendments have emerged that are well-complicated and have led to a negative report by the Commission. Amendments have emerged that are now bringing things back, back 10 years. We defined the appearance of the ID card 10 years ago, defined the content, language relationship and letters on the ID card and data. Now they're looking for changes in that direction and they're trying to return to positions that were ten years ago. The ID card in its contents, in all names and countries and documents and those markings listed, contains both letters and contains... five languages, three of these languages in BiH, English and French. The only information to be entered by machine or computer or I don't know what they're importing on their I.D. card is that the document can be pro-pulsed and the document can be in international traffic, in international traffic. According to information that I have and states that are more related to some of the letters we use in BiH use exclusively Latin in that part for these reasons. The ID card is now required to import it with a Cyrillic, the amendment, then requires that, apart from BiH citizenship, the citizenship of the entity on a personal map, the canton, I don't know, and that it be entered except for the state and entities, the canton, or I don't know what, and we have already a mandatory ID: place of birth and place of issue of the ID card. 20 When we discussed this subject, this is one sensitive topic, right, then I tried to get, i.e. we tried to get the Council of Ministers' opinion, and I suggested that this go to the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers now declare the amendments, which this commission has most of the votes, unfortunately, did not accept. These amendments are totally unacceptable and after the amendments have not received support, then the law has not received support, the vote was 3:3 and the Commission's report is negative. I think it is an important law that should be maintained in life and should be adopted in the text as proposed by the Council of Ministers, without any change. If we want to have a ID card with this biometric data, then we need to upgrade that data like the Council of Ministers did, not go back, because if we go back, then we won't solve the problem. I therefore propose that the House of Representatives should not take negative account of the Commission's opinion, so that it should vote against the Commission's negative opinion, that it should return to the Commission, if the Council of Ministers should also declare this and then adopt the text we need. I repeat, it won't be possible to put things back when it comes to this ID card, especially back 10 years when we're done with some things. And if that's how we come back at this political moment about some other or all things, then I don't know where it's gonna take us all together. There was another issue here as the amendment of distinguished counterpart Aleksandra Pandurević, related to those OHR interventions. I, meanwhile, have been conducting consultations, what the amendment of my colleague refers to this OHR law, but it is certainly contained in this text here of this law, so I think there is no interference with voting for this text and there is no need to exclude that part as proposed by counterpart Pandurević. So, I plead that the House adopts this law at the end of the ballad, whether the complete procedure is in that text as it came from the Council of Ministers, without any interventions. If we intervene, then we will have a problem, especially on sensitive issues that we have once completed, I hope, in this country, the debate on these issues is over and we reached an agreement 10 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6370	I would like to thank the chairman of the Constitutional Commission for further clarifications. Aleksandra Pandurević signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6371	Thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that you have repeated here and that Mr. Džaferović spoke as chairman of the Constitutional Commission. However, he did not state here the positions of the Constitutional Legal Commission, but rather his views as an MP, which I do not dispute, means, but he cannot abuse his office as chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission in order to express his personal or party views. What the amendments were, each of us on the Constitutional Legal Commission had, could vote, say about these amendments what he thought, but it's incorrect to abuse that position to send a wrong picture here. 21 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6372	Okay, let's make an explanation. When I gave my word to Mr Džaferović, he initially presented the information on how the Constitutional Commission came forward, and in the later part he spoke as an MP here in Parliament. A colleague of Džaferović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6373	There's almost no need for a replica, so I've expressed the views of the Constitutional Commission, and then I'm certainly entitled to my own views. I would never be on that committee in any of these parliaments if I didn't have the right to my own opinions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6374	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6375	Indeed, the chairman, it would be nice for your relationship with all MPs to be the same, and I am impressed by how much you care about everything Mr. Džaferović says and how hard you get as soon as you see my name on the display, so, but what do we do, that's the truth, so we have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6376	Mrs. Majkić, I can't help you with your subjective impression.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6377	Ah, well, well, good luck, but the public is watching. So what's the point of why a law like this can't be passed. We even tried to make a concession, we started talking about a law that was unconstitutional. All the questions have come down to a few amendments that if you had accepted, you might as well be able to discuss such a law. Since you've been anchored in your views, there's no law. And what exactly is the basic problem? The problem is that this new text of the law proposes changes to the existing in terms of building a digital certificate under the Law on the Electronic Signature of BiH. I remind you that this is not BiH's jurisdiction and that by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, amandman XXII to Article 68. The RS constitution is about the exclusive jurisdiction of the RS, so no matter what good Mr Džaferović has given us, we will not be able to respond positively to your request.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6378	MP Asim Sarajlić applied for the debate. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, because of that song and echo, I really want to address this House, although you know that I often don't take that opportunity. We are on a very important issue today, a very sensitive political environment and things that were once an obstacle 10-15 years ago for us, however,...I think we should leave behind. The BiH ID or BiH citizen should, in my opinion, if Bog does, include that blue flag with stars sometimes the EU when we are its full citizens. Unfortunately, we are going back in time, we are going back ten years, we have, as Šefik explained very nicely, and five languages on a personal map, along with Serbian, Croatian, Bosnian, English and French, two letters, and Cyrillic and Latin. Let me remind you that some countries that practice a lot more certain letters, such as Russia or Greece, have these names and personal data written in Latin just for pro-pulsivity, for communication with the world, Evropa, etc. Mr. Minister Sredoje Nović, who has elaborated very nicely what the new law predicts, why the changes are very nice and we have understood and understood and supported them. Now we might be in a position to say on our ID card: we don't like the color, so we're going to do a little red, white, blue, so we're going to add some symbols, so we don't know what, tomorrow we might be able to refresh our ID card. I mean, come on, in my colleague's discussion, I used to want to recognize some good intentions, make and build an ambience here. But the document that all BiH citizens have and with which, if you will, here and cross the border across the Sava and over the Drina, I think is very high-quality, that gives enough elements to show both nationality and to show all that personality of every BiH citizen, and to know that it is a citizen of BiH and a citizen who wants to be a citizen of a united Europe tomorrow. I think that these discussions and these amendments will bring us back to some environment that is not good, so I urge that this law, proposed by Minister Sredoje Nović and the Council of Ministers, unanimously to adopt in such a proposal that we have received, and that at all, the amendments and what Šefik was talking about at the Commission not to enter into the debate, because we will open much bigger and much more difficult questions before this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6380	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6381	So you really touched us, Mr. Sarajlić, with your speech. Here, I've really touched myself and thought about Bog what to do now, but especially in this part when you're talking about how we should create an ambience. I'm thinking the same thing. And whether creating an ambience is yesterday's meeting of your Bureau member with a member of the Abu Hamza family and an attempt to get him out of the regular channels and to help him that he who has been assessed to be the threat and safety of this country to talk to him. Is that the creation of an ambience, too? I can tell you that there is no ID, no ID law that will harm this country more than that. And I don't see your political option giving any... support in the direction that things get solved. It would be good for you to start with that engagement in the U.S.A., then with your coalition partners, and then just ask for the support of others. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6382	Replica, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6383	So, Mr. Sarajlić, despite trying to say that you would like to in a certain atmosphere as you represent it differently, don't insult it, I beg you. The issue of revenge is part of the tradition and custom of Srbin to whom we pay very much attention. So first of all, I ask you as a colleague and as a man not to touch what is sacred to us. Here's a quick one, and I don't want to explain...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6384	Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica partially coincides with what my colleague Bojić said. So, my objection, Mr. Sarajlić, to you is to measure the words when you speak and use certain terms in this House. As fellow Bojić said, if you didn't know, revenge is a sacred and very respected act in the Orthodox Church and that you take care of it, as we do when we say we don't insult anyone here. That's one thing. And secondly, whatever you're trying harder and using words and sentences to convince us to accept this, the more you distance us, at least as far as the SNSD Club is concerned, the more you distance us from really thinking about accepting this law for the reasons that you're certain categories that are constitutional matter, such as language and letter, you bring in a relationship with a color that can be found on a personal map, which is completely incomparable, and it doesn't matter whether the ID card has this color or whether there are two letters that are a constitutional category, as well as two letters, latinic and Cyrillic, a constitutional category in this country and cannot be compared to any situation, an example works in Greece when you enter each board and documents are first written in Greek script, and then in a Latin letter. You should know that if you were ever in Greece and you saw it, and if you're not here to get acquainted with it in this way. And so, as far as the SNSD Club is concerned, our position is that we can't support this law, and if that means anything, it means we cut short our time to not spend too much time on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6386	Replica, Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6387	It was precisely my discussion because we knew the SNSD's views and before this Parliament was held, meaning through the Commission itself. I apologize if I have offended someone's national or religious feelings here, it was not my intention, I know very well what languages are and what letters are in BiH, and what SDA's past actions, if you will in the most difficult moments for this country, have shown a great deal of what it is, here today shows what it is ready to do on the way of 24 compromises, dialogues and the construction of this country on the European and NATO path. So our long-standing practice, regardless of who we've met or seen, shows our willingness and sacrifice to build trust among peoples and citizens and to build this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6388	Mr. Božo Ljubić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6389	Fellow Members and colleagues, as we are today discussing a basic identification document in each system, it is also time to hear the word of a third identity here in BiH. Look, like... _________(?) We didn't hear right. I say it's time to hear this word of third identity in this country, identity. And we'll get to this later, what you heard. So, as a member of the party that is part of the existing parliamentary majority, whose Council of Ministers proposed this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the ID card, I was prepared and ready to support it. I'm a member of the Constitutional Commission, but unfortunately I couldn't be because of other political obligations, at meetings, so I couldn't speak my mind there, and that's why I'm doing it here. I believe that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law exists and is given in this reasoning and related to Article IV. 4 point (a). On the other hand, the reasons and the need for this law are, in my view, also unquestionable, and it concerns our obligations towards the European environment, but also progress in technical and administrative and any other respect related to the memory element, for electronic signature, for data protection, etc. And in fact, we should all make every effort here together to get to an acceptable document, and so it wouldn't be worse for some maximum access to tolerance to be applied here and to come to the document, given that, according to my information, the next year is the deadline for the current order and I'm afraid that we would lose some financial resources if we didn't adopt this law in time. But look, here it is unquestionably that two entities are part of the identity of this state, as are three of its constituent peoples, two letters and three languages. And from that point of view, it is certain that the argument of the MPs who suggest that entity citizenship enter the ID card by me and by that logic have a basis. On the other hand, I personally don't want these existing entities, as they are, to be part of my identity, at the very least, until there's a third entity or until there's an empty space, as we've given citizens the opportunity to determine whether an electronic signature element will be included on this ID, or whether it will regulate it with another identity card, I don't mind that whoever wants to enable him and put entity identity and citizenship on this ID card. So, I immediately declared that, given that I swore to respect the Constitution, I would not want it to be the citizenship of the Federation of BiH because I live here. So I think we can get out of this, so to speak, out of this situation, this one kind of kid, if it's our real goal, and I think it is for everyone to adopt this law, because a new ID card with these new elements must be necessary. And I would suggest that 25 today we are looking for a solution to how to keep him alive and how to come up with an acceptable solution for everyone, because obviously we can amount to as much as we want to to our own arguments and be able to convince our own people; if we are not able to convince everyone here or at least most, which is necessary for the adoption of the law, we will all be at risk together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6391	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to say that I support the Council of Ministers' proposal, so the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Citizens of BiH. And I think it would be good for the House of Representatives to support such a text of law. The legislative project came from the Council of Ministers, led by Mr Nikola Špirić and from a resolute ministry headed by Mr Sredoje Nović. The SDP of BiH does not have a minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH, but, when it does, and if it has its representatives in the Council of Ministers, the elemental thing I consider, and we will certainly establish, it is co-ordination between our MPs and ministers. In this case, I must say, it is somewhat unusual for the ministers of a political party and we are at a session of the Constitutional Commission to explain why this law should be adopted, and then the MPs from the same party here at the House session explain the reasons why it should be rejected. I think that at least that coordination should be established, and it will be of real benefit to all of us. This is really what I'm saying on purpose. However, it would be good if, on these ephemeral issues, we returned to the essence of this law and made it very clear here in Parliament what the essence of the law is. And the essence of the law is, above all, that we need to apply the rules relating to electronic signatures and under number two to protect those personal data. Of course, it is the democratic right of MPs to decide in Parliament that they believe they should decide. However, one thing is clear, turning back will not be, there is no parliamentary majority here for turning back. I think this issue should be resolved as it has come from the Council of Ministers, and if there is a blockade of the adoption of such a legal project, it certainly will not benefit anyone but we will all have damage together. Replica, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6392	The replica refers to your presentation, Mr. Chairman, because you tried to insinuate the existence of non-coordination and to say the discrepancies between the SNSD Club and the minister who proposed this law. It's not about that at all, it's about the minister and the ministry doing their part of the job. The law has entered the procedure and the right of all MPs and MPs' clubs to contribute to or correct the law. Do not attempt to successfully present this confusion between the MPs and the SNSD minister because it is not about this and because SNSD is a party... in which not everyone is doing everything but knows exactly who, what and what part of the work is doing, so it is not true that the confusion between us and the ministry is at all but that we have the right as a club, and not only our club, but also other MPs to make their contribution, and our contribution to the amendments of our colleagues Lazar Prodanović is just heading towards something in this law being done, i.e. respecting constitutional categories such as language and letter, such as the existence of entities in this country. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6393	I'm not going to replicate on this. Here you go, buddy. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6394	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't want to put any more tension into confrontation on this matter. What appears in the SNSD that they are their ministers, I think it's a big step forward. I think there will be a big step forward when the whips do not wait for MPs by their political leaders, only then will this parliament be able to work more seriously. That's why we can't choose the Council of Ministers, everyone has dug in and listened to their leaders, as they say, they decide, we don't decide. We have decided largely when we have established this Parliament, I think we must start thinking that way. And it's good for me and it's positive that they show up, that there are different views, and where everyone thinks the same thing nobody thinks. I'm glad people think differently and give constructive ideas. It's hard to say that this is about... issues, side issues. It's not about side issues, it's about citizenship. You know that in BiH there is dual citizenship, entity citizenship and citizenship of the state, state citizenship. That entity citizenship has a certain power in internal relations, that state citizenship has a translucency, or dominant role in international relations. I.D.'s an internal document, a passport's another thing already. So to declare something that we've cleared up on one question, which I would never ask, if the other side were to ask whether to put an entity identification. Who does that bother and why does it bother him? I'm asking who's bothering him and why he's bothering him and how it came 10 years ago to erase it. Well, you know, you're aware of those facts. We had this terrorism of people, we had a high representative who violently worked everything with support, of course, other countries that were also very present when it came to violence over a certain part of BiH. I think these are constitutional issues...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6395	Mr. Kunić, the time for replica is up, and now you have the right to...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6396	Here... let me say two more sentences, so it's about questions that are normal. Think about it, think about the language, the letter, think about the identification – that there is dual citizenship, that it is the fact that these are constitutional categories and, I mean, it might be different to think about. These are no retrograde activities of the RS MPs. I belong to the DNS, I don't belong to the SNSD, so here I think in a similar way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6397	I thank Ambassador Kunić. 27 My fellowman, I agree with you in that part: this is a democratic Parliament; every messenger has the right to express his opinion. I don't think there's any need for us to repeat the same thing ten times, it's enough once to say what the position of the club or MPs is. The replica has Mr. Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6398	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Even though we've been in office a long time, you're still with an internship young chairman, so I guess we'll be stalking these things. I expect you to defend the dignity of this House and you insist on calling for subordination, subjection to the international community, high representative, ministers, leaders, leaders, anyone outside this House. I think it should be an honor to you and to promote the decisions of this House which are crucial to this country and which are ultimately important. I totally understand what you're saying, but I don't think that's exactly what you're saying. That's what someone else can say to those dissatisfied, I don't know either, the leader, the minister or anyone, but you should congratulate your MPs, who you chair, to have their own position no matter how they get to him. Of course, they came democratic and didn't come beyond coordination. Many forget that the Council of Ministers also finds it difficult to agree with the views. This isn't the minister's position. Ask yourselves that the minister with these amendments has come to the Council of Ministers to make it look like it. Would it have come to... so it's not the kind of situation you're presenting that the minister has ended it all, or he's just wondering and bringing it here. So that's where someone told him what they could, what they couldn't, and it's known by name and last name. So, I would like to remind you of these complex relations in the Council of Ministers, how any agreement is made to reach a certain law to Parliament, so that's not it. And this call I understand but I don't think it's correct, if I understand you correctly, you invite all SDP MPs in the Federal Parliament not to submit any amendments, that they have no right to their own opinion but only she verticalally the leader – Minister and Capak. I don't think it's okay, I don't think it's okay. You have your ministers there, and as far as I know, they're clapping amendments there and very correct. So the question of the essence of the amendment is whether or not it solves the matter, and you've turned things around because of the relationship perhaps in the party that the amendment is a matter of obedience. No, he was always a parliamentary asset and don't, I mean, take it away from us that way, at least you. And on the other hand, Mr. Chairman, your finding that there is no majority that can bring things back is not true. I would remind you that standing in a place is a turning back and don't think we're not going backwards when we're standing in place. You don't have a chance to think that even when we're standing up that we're making progress and not standing up is the same going back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6399	I don't really need to rephrase my colleague Kalabić. The man used over 90% of the replica to talk about something I wasn't talking about. I just want to say about this subjection that no one here has spoken of subordination, but that every MP, and that's what I'm talking about, has the right to express his opinion. Parliament will eventually decide. Replica, Ismet Dervoz. 28 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6400	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6402	Mr. Chairman, you said you had no intention of participating in the replica, and you participated. Article 72 The Rules of Procedure determines how you discuss it. Every discussion here you use to comment on and all possible MPs you replicate, in fact. I ask MPs to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 72.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6403	When I have a longer line, I speak, when I have a comment, it's very clear. If you want to vote right now, we can vote. Do you want to make a statement? You don't want to. It's Dervoz' Ismeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6404	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6405	Give me that... Here you go, Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6406	My colleague, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been, therefore, and you are answering and asking questions and giving answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6407	Yes, and I'm asking if he wants us to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6408	Well, my colleague said in the microphone she wanted to.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6409	Thank you. 29 [[Common discussion]] Let's see, by inviting Mrs Pandurević to specify exactly which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6411	...and you've hurt a member of 73 because you don't maintain order during the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6412	Thank you. ...preparation for voting whether or not a member of 72rd and 73rd has been violated. Vote, now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We have a request for a re-election. Please prepare, we vote again. I'm saying "for" 12, "against" 12, two "abstained." The House of Representatives didn't find any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The replica has Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6414	Is there any more interventions or can we? I would like to remind you that we can also discuss the violation of the Code of Conduct of Representatives, so I would like to ask that we begin to call on those members as well. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, when Mr. Kalabić spoke of subordination, I would mention that we are all subjects, all of us, and those who chose us, and don't forget it; and when we talk about whether there is a majority that can or can't go back, there is. It's also the ones who chose us, and that's why I plead that we all in this respected home don't forget what our mission is. I, gentlemen, have listened and watched for years on the other side, where all the citizens who have elected me to this Parliament are. You're doing it again, you're doing it all over again. One step forward and three steps back, continuously, and you are only here to make a decision together on how the citizens of BiH should be better and easier. This ID bill is an important law, it is clear that it is something that is in favour of all BiH citizens, the Alliance for a Better Future, the club of our representatives will support it. I ask you once again to keep everyone together in rhetoric and in the way we speak in the name of the people, the way we speak in the name of the citizens. The way we speak in this home is highly reflected in the overall state of our country. That's why we're responsible. Thank you very much for being part of a Parliamentary Assembly that will exclusively work for the benefit of BiH citizens and our progress towards Euro-Atlantic integration, which is this Personal Card Act. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6415	Thank you. Mato Franjičević applied for the discussion. Here you go. We have a replica. Drago Kalabić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6416	I apologize to my colleague Franjičević because if he had moved on to this line of replicas, he would have finished by now. I listened very carefully to my colleague Dervoz. The elections, right, give many a chance to speak here on this side, that's true, but the strength of that speech is also told by voters to whom they give as many votes as they can speak. She doesn't listen to me, but it doesn't matter. So you're also taking care of the fact that it's not the same position amongst the voters. There are also those who have slipped through the needle ears and who have the right to speak here and have those who have little; here, my colleague Džaferović, who can say a lot here with full lungs more than some, I think, because there is, I respect electoral legitimacy. So we shouldn't be giving any lessons here and I expected my colleague Dervoz to get into the essence of this general story and say whether it belongs to the people of RS the right to have a Cyrillic ID card. That, if you will, the citizens of the RS expect you to hear your position here, you have come here...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6417	Mr. Kalabić, you asked for a replica, replicate what she was talking about. Mrs. Dervoz didn't talk about it. Now we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure strictly.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6418	So I'm replicating my colleague Dervoz, only that you write to me, so I'm talking about the essence of her replica. So, I expect here, there we all have the right to general attitudes, here we have to be concrete. Are you colleagues of Dervoz that the citizens of the RS have no right to a Cyrillic on their ID card or not? And it is your democratic right to plead. I'll respect that. So, that's me, I know you have a lot of other needs to talk, but in this case, I'm particularly interested in your position so that I can identify myself in which part of us are parliamentary, like this or like this, means, and I fully respect everything you said and I accept your interventions and requests that we should be keeping track of everything, but at the same time we don't have the right to run from the stand here, so we all have to have it, so what it is, because there's a need to get results on this scoreboard.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6419	Ismeta Dervoz applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6420	Dear counterpart Kalabić, the essence of my address was that the processes in this legislature were accelerated for the benefit of all BiH citizens, the essence of my address was that we were not going one step forward and ten steps back, and the essence of my address was that we as MPs took responsibility from those who chose us. And when you talk about those who have gone through needle ears into this Parliament, it certainly isn't the Alliance for a better future, and you know it very well. In all our results in the previous elections, I think many who, as you say, speak to the full lungs in this House might be well concerned about their results. I thank you for giving me a chance to say what my position is. My view is that if it is agreed at certain high levels in this country on certain elements of the law that are for all BiH citizens and this Parliamentary Assembly in a certain way in the first reading supported, as was the case with this Law on the ID card, why do we need to put everything back and try to add difficult circumstances that are not in favour of the citizens we work for. I plead that what we agreed to be agreed upon. I, Mr. Kalabić, read Cyrillic and write very fluently, is a letter with which I grew up and something that does not represent a problem for me in any way.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6421	I will ask all MPs from places not to receive, especially those who pay particular attention to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6422	Mr. Kalabić, answer: So I read Cyrillic and write fluently. With that letter, I grew up, taught him at school, and I have no problems at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6423	Replica, MP Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6424	Replica to a colleague and, of course, a few colleagues. When it comes to the capacity that individual MPs have here in Parliament, we all have equal capacity regardless of the number of votes they have won. And the one who came here on the compensation list, the compensation list, regardless, so we're all MPs here in accordance with the laws of this country, and I'm asking you to treat each other like that. So, once and for all, both Mr. Kalabić and his colleague when it comes to this part. Next, I really expect you colleagues to be here specifically. The application of us from the RS is just a Cyrillic letter and the position of the RS in public official documents that are, among other things, defined by our Constitution. This is what we expect of you in this House when you are already speaking on the subject, and you know this area very well. So it's important to us what, in fact, it's a sign of what kind of relationship you have with us coming from the RS, according to the Cyrillic letter. So, I join in this part of my colleague Kalabić when it comes to this particular issue. Of course, you have very skillfully avoided giving a concrete answer and that is quite a clear enough answer for me. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6425	Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6426	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to cut very short because it's hard to avoid repeating after this many texts that he followed before my announcement. Mr. Božo Ljubić said some things... entity on ID, and I won't repeat, I agree with that. When it comes to the amendment of Mr. Prodanović, which provides for the identification of personal data on a Cyrillic letter, my only argument against it was that it would make it difficult to use the identity card as an identification document when crossing the state border in certain cases where possible. However, since the fundamental principle of equality and equality of language and letters is above this operational problem,... I believe it is impossible not to give a confirmed answer to Mr. Prodanović's request to enable, therefore, and to provide personal data – names, last name by Cyrillic letter. However, as in the case of Mr Ljubić on the indication of entities on the identity card and in this case, it is necessary to enable choice, so that indeed everyone decides whether these personal data will be written in Latin or Cyrillic, given that, in the event of a decision on this other variant, they will be able to have certain problems in identifying the crossing of the state border of BiH. Here I have tried to avoid repetitions and it is impossible to avoid a repetition, and that is what I am also joining that appeal to make further efforts to achieve this law because it is indeed in the interest of all BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6427	We've got another one on the case. Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the thing, dear colleague Franjičević said that part. I'll just be a little... very short. The Constitution regulates the equality of two letters. What legal act, from anyone to come or even to adopt this House, could violate the Constitution? Who has the right to make it impossible for me or anyone else to plead, the ability to choose one or the other? Why are we putting Parliament in a position to violate the Constitution, he, Parliament, MPs? He didn't need that amendment at all, he didn't have to discuss it at all, he didn't have to go into the procedure at all. Two letters equal, constitutional category, respect the Constitution, end of story. Does anyone like that letter nice, is not, is not, is someone going to read it at the border, how it will respond, is there going to be a problem with that ID card, and other countries have everything on Cyrillic. There's Rumunija too, there's Russia, so nobody asks them, and people pass. And now I'm worried if some of our cops are gonna stop a citizen, now I'm talking hypothetically, suspiciously, know a Cyrillic and a Latino to read to him on his I.D. Here, we lead ourselves to the absurd functioning of the system in this country. The constitutional category and I'm against any violation of this country's constitution while it's in effect, as it is. We signed, people, the oath everyone here, stood, that 33 would honor the Constitution. And why did it even take this much debate and any amendment would anyone give me the right to decide? So let's go back to what's only for us MPs here, I say, we signed to respect the Constitution, and everything else will be easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6429	Replica, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6430	Well, I thought there was no need for me to get into the essence, I think I've been clear enough, but since here, of course, the letters are equal in BiH, and the Latin and Cyrillic, and there's no debate about it, I mean, the languages are even, whoever's drawing that question, I think there's a problem. I just want to read Article 6 paragraph 1, 2.3.4 of this text of the law that's written here. So the title on the ID is written in Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, French and English. The text in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian is written in a Latin and Cyrillic letter. And all the headlines are written in that letter, so the Cyrillic exists. Take your ID and you'll see. And the individual data, hence the individual data entered in the ID form by the competent authority, shall only be entered in the Latin letter. So everything that's in the form of a ID contains what is both Latin and Cyrillic, and these individual data, and then I was asking myself – I have nothing against Cyrillic or anyone, I think, here in this Parliament – and then I got the answer. This wasn't accidentally done in BiH, so it's not like anyone suspects this is the case in our law because someone wants to insult any letter in BiH. This is why, the answer is what they are doing, and it is said about it, and other countries that have multiple letters for the value of this document in international transport. And that's why it was written here, and ten years ago it was written here. I just want this to be known to the public. I've read what the provision of this law contains. And this is the first question I've asked a representative of the Council of Ministers on the Constitutional Commission and received this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6431	... Do you have a third-point need yet? What is it, a replica or, you had two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6432	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6433	Discussion. Mr. Drago Kalabić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6434	I apologize, given that Mr. Džaferović discussed how he was discussing and trying not to challenge the replicas, I have no right to replicas anymore and I must say that I use the discussion, but let's say what are the limitations when it comes to identity traits that you can serve it to someone in this way. Is that how Russia uses it in international communication? In this way 34 in their country, in their country means, I'm not sure that in Russian, data is not being recorded in Russian books in Russian. I'm not sure about international communication when you go to someone's house or how you already respect the rules of international organisations, but here we're talking, just before Mr. Kunić said, we're talking about an internal document here. And I'm not sure that we can play with identity features using technical ones that can be kind of accurate to make it better, but then why the lecturers in Parliament when all and one MP here understands all three letters, all three languages, all and one word knows. And you know how I'd be welcomed by any side if we'd put down the lecturers now. So, here's for sure we all look funny in some way, but please don't let anyone think that he insists on it, those are things that are arranged, things that are known to be how and why we don't touch it, even though it's someone who's practical, who's anal, can be funny. He has the right to such an attitude, but it's the way he is, and we've found it several times that we shouldn't touch it. Probably from the point of view of fragmaticism, it would be good if this was a nation of one people, one faith, one like-minded, a simple state, a simple state, without any more levels of power, so there's no one who wouldn't like it, one party. But it's not, it's not. And respecting that it isn't, it's what it is, and I think we're trying to get out of it all the time, not to forget about it. Believe me, I did not expect that in this year and this time we would come to the BiH Parliament to defend the Cyrillic. I thought it was a finished story. However, it is obviously not and there is no need for more; please, colleague Džaferović, that I do not have the right to reply. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6435	You don't have to throw it out of place, so you know how you get the word. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 9th session of the House, held on 8. Nine. 2011 The draft law was adopted in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report 21. Nine. 2011 I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate... Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: 35 Ad. 5. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, the field has grown into weeds, and we import food. So 50% of unprocessed land, which is exactly 48.85%, according to statistics, in BiH. This is an alarming situation, given that BiH has potentials with which it can at an annual level in agricultural production to have a halalo surplus. With this policy, we can enter the EU and there are no problems, but only in such an EU will we be servants and poor people. So, we are all in favour of joining the EU, i.e. that the EU has no alternative and we are very well aware that in EU entry negotiations, among other things, the most important role in the negotiations will be precisely the amount of funds to be financed from the EU budget. And the amount of these funds that we will receive from the EU budget, permanently after entering the EU, is solely linked to the area processed and the volume of production. So, the resources that follow us from the European budget when we enter the EU for agriculture will depend exclusively on the reference year that the EU has set for us, how much reference will be processed that year and how much production will be ours. Well, we have experience of neighbouring Croatia coming in, here, in a year and a half and more into the EU, and we know very well that we have to make every effort there because it will be the most profitable investment in BiH when we join the EU. And the experiences of Croatia tell us, now that I know, I got information from their ministry, so the financial envelope for direct payments, they fought in negotiations, amounting to 373m euros per year. They have also been granted additional funds for the EU budget of 9.6 million, and an additional wine envelope of 10.8m euros, and for the financing of rural development measures from the EU budget, 300m euros per year will be provided, so, totaling now for Croatia, the neighbouring country, which is entering the EU, as we have said, and the Commission has indicated that an analysis is made, the analysis is quite clear, so Croatia from the European Fund will receive 693.4m euros from the Fund for Agriculture from the European budget. So that's a billion and 300 million, and we now know that our incentives here are 180 million in total and something. So more than ten times will be given to the Republic of Croatia which, somewhere only by 10%, has a larger area and a larger area than BiH. And you might think, if we continue with this policy as we have so far, what we have to expect in this area that is very important to one country and its citizens, which is food production. So the most profitable investment in the coming period will just be in agriculture and rural development because we will have permanent EU funds when we enter that part. What to say about the report? I fully agree with what's been written and I've been advocating it for years, so it says 'intensively work on the realization of the Roadmap Action Plan'. Great. The report therefore states: 'To draw up an Action Plan for the Harmonisation of the Action of the Stock Reserve System, implementation and strict application of the rules and procedures for the determination of customs value in the import and customs of goods, the launch of a procedure for the adoption of safeguard measures for certain domestic agricultural and livestock products, in particular those subject to excessive imports, to implement the necessary changes and additions to the rules relating to the protection of domestic production from excessive imports, in order to simplify the procedures and procedures of proof and the proposing of protection measures.' So I fully agree with these policy measures by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and the Council of Ministers adopted. I would only add here that I have one conclusion, and before that conclusion in the Mapi times in one place is said, on page 21: For the adoption of an efficient system, unreserved support is necessary at all levels of government and a high degree of cooperation and communication of all the institutions in the food network. With the application of the mechanisms of determining responsibility, this is a prerequisite for implementing any further activities, as this support has been very often lagging behind, and that the level of communication and coordination is insufficient, 37 here is needed through the provision of full political support by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers and the Governments of Entity and the Brcko District." So it's all written, and that condition, the basic prerequisite of everything, we still don't meet today. We do not have enough political consensus, or parliamentary majority, to choose the new Council of Ministers and to start solving this issue. I, as a representative, am offering myself as chairman of the Council of Ministers and continue to ask for your support to move in that direction. And the conclusion I am going to make here is that "the Council of Ministers is in charge of setting deadlines by the next session of Parliament on the measures prescribed in the Agriculture Report". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6440	The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6441	Let me also speak here as a member of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs. Yesterday we had... a session of the Commission and here the chairman read the conclusions in which we all participated and agreed that it was really necessary for this agenda to act urgently and react. This report in the area of agriculture, is it, for 2010, approximately the same as for 2009 and shows the real state that is in our possession and which is alarming. In addition to this report, the Commission also relied on the Annual Report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in BiH's agricultural production and food industry, which is also a key moment at the moment when we do not really have the time to sit down and keep quiet about the problems that concern us. I will rely specifically on one item of the agenda, which is the action on the implementation of the measures that the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the External Chamber of Commerce have carried out at that session, which are indeed worrying. One of the most important issues in BiH's overall development is the accreditation of laboratories and recognition of CEFTA countries' quality certificates. There is thought to launch a negotiation procedure to sign a contract for mutual recognition of the list of laboratories and certificates of quality within the CEFTA countries. BiH does not have a state-level infrastructure related to certification, accreditation and there is no CE marking and indeed we cannot export it. What concerns me and what I want to share here, let me say that concern along with our parliamentarians, is really the entry of Croatia in 2013 into the EU and the fact that all possible doors of our bh are closed. exporters to Croatia, or tomorrow to the EU. We need to know that Croatia is the most important external trade partner for us to export and that we will lose even more than a billion euros a year by joining the EU. That's really what we're worried about. Furthermore, there is also a moment in the negotiations, which I have raised in the parliamentary issue, which is that we are granted two crossings, two crossings towards Croatia, by entering Croatia into the EU, that is Gradiška and Metkovic area. We know that our border with Croatia is 1.001 km and it is indeed a great process, we were told yesterday that they were looking for five crossings towards Croatia. Whoever participated in these agreements and negotiations with Croatia, i.e. the EU, I don't know, but indeed there was a terrible and cardinal gap because at least seven-eight crossings should be at least a mile away, if we consider that Croatia bordering the EU, the border of Croatia towards the EU means Slovenia, Hungary, there is about 860 km, they have eight border crossings, and we are allowed indeed 38 only a small space, even one of the gentlemen said, it is a left-wing system. So we're really bringing our exporters into an uninvited position. We lead to our border crossings... like Izačić, which is really done by the criteria of the EU standard, here remains dead as well, and other border crossings towards the West, while they have given us space for two border crossings that are devastated, which have no infrastructure, which have no real perspective for export and we are in a situation to lose, I say, one big market. This is where the Roadmap is mentioned. And we know that meeting the conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin with concrete deadlines should be given in this Roadmap, but it should be actively worked on the realisation of the Action Plan of the Roadmap. Gentlemen, my question was yesterday, I will continue to ask and ask today, we have mentioned the negative effects of Croatia's entry into the EU, and I am now wondering what can be done from what has been done, and it has been disastrously done, what can be fixed. What can we do in this short time of a few months, I say again, until Croatia enters the EU, what can we do to improve, to activate? Is there anything we can do to activate and some additional border crossings or is this condition cemented? If the situation is cemented, we really must all worry about our economy, the BiH economy. If it isn't, what space is it, in which time we can, because the more urgent he has to react, because this is the last train. What can be improved and done – that is what I expect from the Lord who sits there to tell us – to repair this damage that has been done? Can we act here, how, to what extent and within what time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6442	Thank you. The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the thing, with respect for what my dear colleague Ćemalović said, I'd just like to expand a little bit. Of course, it's our business obligation to adopt reports for the past year, some of us have the past, etc., but I always plead that we try to warn some things. And last session of the House of Representatives, I said that Croatia is officially in the EU in 2013, but it is five years in the EU or 10, because we have constant problems in the relationship between goods exchanges. If we look at only two indicators (in order not to convince the whole book, it's hard) in 2008, we had a decline in production in agriculture of 2.63 and some percentages, in 2009, we were getting away with something, for 2010, there was no one, and even when the report, the flood destroyed everything in the area of this part or that part and did not choose entities, entities, nationalities, peoples, or parties. It's going to be a catastrophic report. So what's important is that we don't go over these things that are crucial. We can't build alien ships, but our strategic branch should be agriculture, because 163,000 people, according to some official statistics, who still don't have to be accurate, or people who live on agriculture -- are employed there. Now, one entity is working on the owner's registration, so it's going to have the exact data, the other one hasn't thought of it yet, so when we add it all up at the level, and then we turn the cantons on, we're not going to have any indicators of what's waiting for us. And we have an uncertain situation because our main resources are agricultural products... and foreign trade. Of course, not forgetting the energy that's the key, and also the water where we're lucky to export, but importing 125 million marks for last year and last year, the same figures, they're somewhere. 39 So there is an uncertain situation waiting for us in this particular area. And I would not like to have a debate, at least to say the subject is (that I am not going from the subject and from outside the Rules of Procedure) – Report. Whatever's written there, we can't change the word. He was like this, like this. But we have 25 measures in front of us that this ministry has prepared in time, and we should also commend the sector for agriculture and the entire ministry that has really made huge efforts, so it has put all of this together statistically and seen what the priorities of this country are and it has brought it into line at all levels where consensus is needed. So let's pay attention to these measures. So I would like (of course, there can be no initiative now because we are talking about the Report) that we have one point in these measures or the other or the 16th and we say, this is the key to BiH, this is our priority until this year 2013. But I'm saying, she happened five years ago, people. Our foreign trade partners in agriculture are Serbia and Croatia. With Croatia, we had an external trade deficit of about a billion and 800 million, with Serbia around 550 million. They are not important figures, it is important that our branch of agriculture stagnates, and we have the constant pressure of farmers, mostly media, of course, never officially this parliament, so neither you nor we as MPs have received at least individually what they are looking for. What's to be done? We invited them all. And I'm gonna get this over with, there's a series of problems, so you can't just get over this. Now we have a problem that hasn't escalated so much: the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry, a whole series of problems. But here, the chairman yesterday accepted, we all agreed, proposed a rational solution, gave them an optimal deadline of 30 days for them to agree because I told them on this committee yesterday, and this was supported by fellow Members, Parliament will not be put into the role of arbiter to judge who is guilty, who is not. But our first speaker is the Council of Ministers, so our ministry, with the Chamber of Commerce... But it's really weird that the BiH Chamber of Commerce is opening a detachment in Banja Luka. And really, when it comes to the agenda, then it shows how the institutions of this country function. The BiH Chamber of Commerce is a detashman in the institution, and there is an RS Chamber of Commerce. What do we do, people, and then we wonder why RS has representation in Moscow, I don't know, Brussels, and here and there. We have a representativeship here, my people, let's settle it. These are problems that are not possible through this report, but this must be a serious topic for another and more serious debate and this must be given more attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6444	I'm closing the debate within the sixth item of the agenda. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Opinion of the Joint Committee on Labour Control, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency, on the review of the BiH Ministry of Security report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the area of the protection of classified data in 2010 The joint commission to monitor the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency is 27. Seven. 2011 submitted a proposal for a conclusion to the House for adoption. The conclusion is: 40 'We call on all institutions in BiH, and above all, the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Defence of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH to comply with the provisions of the BiH Security Act as soon as possible, without further delay, and to remove the shortcomings detected during the supervisory activities carried out by the national security authority and the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency.' The Joint Commission has also delivered eight conclusions it wants to meet the House. You've all reached conclusions, so there's no need for me to read them now. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6446	Thank you very much. It's really rare when it happens in this House to get a report like this. One who had a desire and could actually force himself to carefully read it, got more dilemmas than was given an answer. When I was thinking about how this committee came to these conclusions that she wrote here, then I realized that the key face in front of the Ministry of Security needed to explain to this committee what it was really about that had led this committee astray, and it had gone the wrong way, so that it wouldn't come to the right conclusion. See what this Annual report on operational and technical surveillance in the field of protection of classified data in 2010. First, the Security Ministry's task is to issue security clearances for access to classified information, and that concludes all its competence. What the Ministry tried to do to me in the last term before the end, to send amendments and additions to the Secret Information Protection Act, in an attempt to reach out to the powers that do not belong to it, and that as an idea failed, the ministarsvo did not leave even in this report. I remind you that, on one side and on the other, there are agreements in place on the exchange and protection of classified information with other countries, followed by a story of crypto protection and the introduction of a system that has not yet been revived. This part of the text could only be understood by informers, not intended for MPs. The third part talks about the security legislation that is related to this law that I was talking about, and the fourth one is talking about current work problems, and that means what would happen if the law had been passed. And in the end, the conclusions are made again in the context of the unadopted law. Article 76(2) The law on the protection of classified information requires that a report be submitted to the Joint Commission for the Intelligence and Security Agency and this was done the way it was done. In line with this, I should comment on the views of the Commission drawn from the Ministry of Security's report. One, the Commission has, as it stands here, seen the problem of the lack of adequate systematisation of jobs within the national security authority. And as such, it wouldn't be a problem at all if the systematization didn't apply to the very part of the amendments and additions to this law that weren't passed. So, the minister does not take into account that we have not adopted amendments and additions to this law, but continues to insist on such systematicisation. That was not told to the Commission, and therefore I assume that her request was to do exactly the opposite of what the minister is ordering here. It has not been told to the Commission that there is no systematisation, therefore, and that, in fact, this statement on systematisation is an attempt to seize competence. 41 The second point, the Commission saw no adequate degree of independence in the development of a national security authority in line with NATO and EU practices and decisions, but was not told that the Ministry of Security had no jurisdiction to monitor the lower levels within BiH, but only advisoryly. The Commission also naively believed that there was a lack of proper rules that led to ambiguity and difficulties in implementing the Data Protection Act, and in fact it was a hoax and false information provided by a representative of the Ministry of Security. The non-existent regulations represent the failed amendments and additions to the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, which has never been adopted, which will never get our support, because it is an obvious attempt to steal powers that the Ministry of Security does not have. All other Commission allegations are problematic, in particular point 6 which is the support of the Security Authority in the follow-up of its activities against the Dayton Constitution. Halal to the Commission who supported it. It sounds incredible that Serbian representatives also supported the conclusions, probably because they did not have enough information and because the ministry's representative did not tell them. In point 8. The Commission says it has simultaneously received knowledge and unanimously supported it. Well, I'm asking the secretary to really decide when she's writing a report, whether she supported it, whether she unanimously supported it or received it. Which of these two qualifications are they? Finally, the conclusion, which was just read, in the same tone and with the same intention, comes from the fact that vlas did not think up. I must remind you that in accordance with Article 30(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the protection of classified information shall be carried out by the Intelligence and Security Agency for the purpose of verifying the authorisation of access to classified information. The verification results shall be submitted to the institution manager in which the verifier works, and the institution manager shall then submit a request for verification to the Ministry of Security, which shall issue an authorisation for access to the information. An intelligence and security agency shall carry out all security checks for access to data degrees confidential, secret and very secret, except in two exceptions. In Article 33, paragraph 1 of this Act, security checks on military personnel and employees of the Ministry of Defence are carried out confidentially to the level of the Ministry of Defence, and further checks are made – a level of covert, very secret - by the Intelligence and Security Agency. Also, in accordance with Article 33(2). The law... basic security checks of police officers to the level of confidentially performs SIPA, and further checks – secret, very secret – are being carried out again by the Intelligence and Security Agency. So, what does the Department of Security do? Issue certificates. What would he want to do? To monitor and control all levels within BiH, which is the jurisdiction of entity interior ministries. Since this is what I said, given that in one unworthy way the Commission has tried to disabling itself, the right thing, and that the members of the Commission are not informed of what the real point is, we will not support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6447	...applied Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6448	Although such and similar discussions are often heard in this House, the one we have heard now is completely incomprehensible to me. So I understood this whole thing as one Commission activity to be welcomed. I don't know what the problem is if it was unanimous and I don't see what the damage has been done here. Of course, Parliament is there to vote: if people appreciate support, they will support; if they do not appreciate it, they should not be supported. 42 However, we should really refrain, Mrs. Majkić, from these words'stealing','stealing'. You know, it's not really about that. I'm sure that's not what this is about, and there's no need. So, do not dispute the right to see someone in the Report, i.e., the opinion and suggestion of these conclusions something that is dangerous for someone, I do not dispute that right, but the way that it is defined and practically these people who voted this were thieves because it is said that this is stealing, that they are disabling this parliament, or the minister, etc. As far as I'm concerned, here's, unlike Mrs. Majkić, this is acceptable to me, of course, I'll support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6449	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6450	So, Mr. Belkić, I really don't have, it's your private thing what you think about the report, but when I say about something that repeats who knows which time and when it comes to stealing jurisdiction, it can't anymore, don't force me to be a fake. I'm a person who wants to call things what they're called. When something's been abused so many times, then there's no more of that fine term that's gonna pack and tuck things in so they look nice, no more nice words. If it's not to be used in a termological manner, then it's not to do what leads to that term. So, please, there's a constitution and whoever goes against the Constitution is doing this theft of jurisdiction and that's exactly what it's called, there's no other term that can be used, because that's the first time I could say I'm rude, but if that's who knows which time I've adopted that it's a term - stealing jurisdiction. And you can't really convince me that I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6451	Replica, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6452	Incidentally, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6453	Mr. Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6454	Here, while you're dragging me by my tongue, I'm going to tell you that you're a big fight and that you're making big problems in this House, all under the cloak of a fighter for someone's rights, etc. Here's how I'm experiencing you right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6455	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6456	No microphone 43 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6457	Replica, Dušanka Majkić. And do you have a replica or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6458	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6459	Now, if you'll excuse me, business has an advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6460	... I request a half-hour recess due to the inability of the presence of the President of the Commission, and our member, and possible participation in this debate. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6461	At the request of the Alliance Club for a better future, we give a 30-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to take your seats, proceed with the work of the 10th session of the House of Representatives. A break was requested by the SBB Club. Is there any need to explain the break? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6463	I welcome all present. I apologize for not being a rapporteur at the 7th point, because I had a meeting with the NATO General at that time so I was not present, and I gave the material to the Commissioner, Mr Jovičić, but I see..., i.e., I am getting information that the hasty debate was being conducted about this and that the fact that the Commission of 10 members is actually crossed by zero. I must say, at the outset, it is clearly stated that when it comes to information and it clearly states that there were 10 votes 'yes', the conclusion was adopted. In the last part, if standing received towards the knowledge at the 8th point, simply and unanimously supported. The Commission discussed this, there was an entity majority and there were enough members, enough members from Parliament and the House of Peoples and unanimously adopted the proposal. And I must say that absolutely no one can say that 10 members of the Commission have been manipulated, and we do not accept it as any communication in this House. No one has ever manipulated me, nor can or will. I'm saying this on my own personal behalf and I absolutely don't accept such rhetoric. I'm maximum tolerance until the end of the pain. And here goes the pain threshold, 10 people who took part in this, the Commission has given its opinion, who likes it or doesn't like it, can vote 'yes' or 'no', but insulting people in this form is absolutely unacceptable. That's it, Chairman. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6464	I thank Ambassador Đugum. Dušanka Majkić answered the line. But you had two replicas?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6465	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6467	So first, let me tell Mr. Belkić that we can personally think about each other whatever we want. I can really respect that you think uglyly of me, I can't stand up to it, but I was talking about arguments. I'm not fighting, sir, we're having a debate here. If you can accept it that way, maybe my tone sometimes looks a little out of the ordinary, but I'm telling the arguments, I'm not attacking anyone, and I'm not using terms that aren't appropriate. And as far as the Commission is concerned, I really don't think the Commission's views are presented, and that's what I said. I'm sorry the chairman wasn't present when we talked about this. I have no intention of repeating it. So, I think that mostly the Commission is new and chairing it is new and it will take time for the Commission to spy on itself and recognize what's going on, so I don't think I see why we should eat so much. I think we all need a little more understanding and a little more demands for those who propose both reports and laws and all. I don't see what's wrong with that. If I say that the Commission is not presented with views, why is that bad? They're not presented, because the whole story of this report is the story of a law that... didn't pass last year. The Commission did not know that. The Commission did not know that there was a law which was in circulation and which did not receive support. And the whole point of this report is him. And the bottom line is that you've just provided the Ministry of Security with the information that is related to that law. And that's what this report says. So, I was talking about arguments. Someone may not like it, but it was my argument, and I've made it right for each of these points what's the problem. And I ask you not to abuse, especially when you have not heard, and to use words and terms that I have not spoken. I'm telling you, the Commission is misinformed, if that term might suit you better.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6468	Replica, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6469	Here, Mrs. Majkić, first of all, I really don't hate anybody, in principle, I respect people and I appreciate them. I've responded only, not to your arguments that I respect, these are your arguments that you believe, I've responded to the expressions. I didn't react to the tone, I reacted to the expressions. Maybe you're not even aware. You're talking about pranks, you're talking about stealing, you're talking about grabs, etc. from the BiH institutions. Now, that's just a problem. So here's how you're doing that beautifully now, nice, quiet tone, dictionary, that's okay. It's all right. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6470	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6471	Well, Mrs. Majkić, who does he steal from then, by himself? It's yours as well as mine. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6472	Thank you. If we are talking about the Commission's Report, then we must bear in mind that the Commission has been working and drawing its conclusions on the basis of a report on operational and technical surveillance in the area of protection of classified data in 2010. The Commission did its job on the basis of the data it received, which it had in mind, and which were presented in oral form as well. Based on this data, the Commission has drawn up the Report, and this report has been given to every MP and this report can be discussed. It cannot be said of any kind, to say the Commission's unprofessional or inadequate work. On the basis of the documents submitted and on the basis of the report submitted, the Commission made up its minutes and made its proposal. If the report is insufficient, if the report has something that is not adequate, then please have an address to address and ask the question to those who delivered the report... to all parliamentarians and to discuss this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6473	Slavko Jovičić applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this is how it would have been if we had just been brought there, and if we had not known anything, we had not seen anything, we had not read anything, nor – that I would have just transferred one detail from the Commission's meeting. I was against this report and this kind of work in the Commission, since I thought I had experience in the last term, because I was also a member of that commission. Well, then, since there's nothing secret about my biography, my field is closest to that, given some of the jobs I've done before, I've been against it. Now that you have a situation, and that should know the House of Representatives, and here's what may have happened the second or third time in Parliament's work, which is quite normal, and it's democracy, that I have the views of my two colleagues, and I stress that for the facts that have happened, two Srbin, two members of my party, but not from the House of Representatives but from the House of Peoples, and I am putting myself in a position to have one of my colleagues replicate that it does not agree with my views, and therefore finally, as it would say, we come to a score of 10:0. Now, 10:0, 9:1 does not solve anything, when the Commission, knowing its competences, sends its report to Parliament, to the House of Representatives, and sends it to the House of Peoples. 46 So we can discuss, so here I have taken time for you, but I won't take much, right now you know, so now we have two options, we have no third: we reject the Commission's position, we accept the Commission's position, we return this. Now, the other thing is that this code on this classified information wasn't passed last year, its changes and additions. Well, then let me introduce you to something else and remind my colleagues who are from the last call, and the new ones, I'm the only one asking for that law to be brought down here in Parliament. Why? Because I was the only one, MPs didn't sign, happiness, but that's what we adopted later, the only member of the Commission who didn't want to fill out a questionnaire that I said at the time was stupidity, nonsense, and I don't know what, so let someone say that I choose words and what term I use, in which it stands in one of the members to fill out the questionnaire: were you a member of some terrorist organization and state which? When I saw it, I first wondered if there was a man who wasn't a member of Parliament, who shouldn't have filled everything in this country for everything and everything. The other thing is, everyone's been checking me somewhere alive until I get on that happy list, so I'm glad, so I don't know, especially when I've been chosen, and wherever I go off the border, I've had my passport diplomatically, I haven't had everyone check me out, and everyone's orders me to take off my shoes, pull out my belt, and I don't know what I'm gonna do, and now I'm gonna fill in and answer the question whether I was a member of a terrorist organization, and all my working life, here, everybody knows that I've been doing in intelligence, before in Homeland Security, I've been fighting against those who do it, who violate constitutional order, human rights, and I don't know what. And I'm the only one who doesn't sign here because I don't need any classified information. So here again, to remind my colleagues, when the minister was before security and said fine public nothing secret, what could be the protection of classified information if Minister Tarik Sadović knew that too. What kind of protection is that? Secret information can save one man, knowing from service a little, possibly two. And as soon as they know three, there's no secret. And is there a single piece of information in this country that not every grandmother and Nana in the village, and especially those who give us a lecture, which is full of BiH, not as tourists but as they manage us, all know about us: and in which I am today a suit, and how my tie is turned to me, so everything lives. And what secret information are we talking about? That's why I was against it. And I just wanted to take the opportunity to pass on the atmosphere to you from the session, and I don't need to blame the chairman of the Commission, whether he's new, whether or not this should not be blamed, especially Mrs. Majkić, who got in great with this procedure and saw what it was, and especially why I was who I was against it and brought in a position to rephrase my colleague from my same party, the same people, and I can't get mad at someone from another party, so there's someone guilty there. He's not there, that's what happened. Now, I'm finishing up, whatever it was, it was 10, 6:1, Parliament decides, we accept or refuse. It's a finished story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6475	I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on MP Mirza Kušljugić's initiative that the House of Representatives in the agenda of the session, to be held in 47 September 2011, put the point "The analysis of the implementation of the commitments undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina through the signing of international agreements/contracts in the field of energy" At the 9th session of the House, held on 8. Nine. In 2011, the initiative did not receive the necessary entity majority, so the College as a commission tried to reach agreement within three days. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. You've received a match report. Today we declare ourselves in the second round of the initiative of MP Mirza Kušljugić. I would like to remind you that if we adopt this initiative, we will also vote on the Opinion of the Competent Commission for Transport and Communications, which reads: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity to deliver to the House an analysis of the implementation of the commitments that BiH has undertaken by signing international agreements/contracts in the field of energy'. There's no debate here within this agenda point. We're going to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6478	So, as a rapporteur in front of our commission, I'm in charge of reading a few sentences, so that concerns the amendment and addition of the Codex. The Joint Committee for the Consistency of the Text of Amendment and Supplements of the Code was held at the meeting held on 12. The 9th of this year considered the text of amendments and additions to the Codex, adopted by the House of Representatives by a hasty procedure at the 77th session, held on 12th. 5 last year, and the text of amendments and additions to the Codex adopted by the House of Peoples with the amendment of Zoran Koprivica to the 49th session, held on 1. Nine last year. The Joint Committee is considering both amendments and additions to the Code, seeking to reach an agreement on the same text, and considering that not all elected officials, so MPs and deputies in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in a permanent working relationship with the Parliamentary Assembly, and that all elected officials belong to the monthly co-chair regardless of the working-legal status, and wanting to equalise both groups of elected officials, so the Committee agreed and unanimously adopted this amendment which you have read, so I would not repeat it. The Joint Commission unanimously accepted the text of amendments and additions of the Code with the adopted and agreed amandman I., and proposed that the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopt this report and accept the single text of amendments and addition of the Code. Once again, I point out the importance of adopting the above-mentioned and the amendments and additions to the Code, because they are the basis for the adoption of the implementing act, i.e. the rules for the implementation of the Code. Therefore, the Regulation cannot apply until we have completed the adoption procedure of the Code, so once again I appeal to you to adopt the above-mentioned amendment and amendments to the Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6479	Thank you. Ambassador Amir Fazlić has applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6480	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6481	Wrong. No more reports. I'm closing the 9th point of the agenda. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: 49 Ad. Ten. Appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people (Commission candidate list for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH) In accordance with Article 2 paragraph 5(7) of the BiH Election Law, the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission is 15. Nine. In 2011, she submitted a list of candidates for the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Serb and Bosniak nations. A list of candidates for members of the Central Election Commission in the order of the Serb people and from the order of the Bosniak people has been delivered to all Members. I'm opening a debate. Zvonko Jurišić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6483	Thank you, Chairman. Since I was the president of the Commission for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission, and with me from Parliament, i.e. from the Joint Administrative Commission were colleagues Sarajlić and Kalabić, this commission, together with other colleagues, carried out this job as stated here by certain rules and criteria we adopted, means the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Commission, the Central Election Commission, so here it is in this brief report and written, although there is a whole big report where they have records from all interviews, where we have made certain criteria for the score of these candidates. Because when you see maybe these lists, so where these first candidates won a relatively large number of points in relation to the second and all others, it's all by legal and business procedure. And in the end, a common pool score for Bosniak candidates and the order of the Serb people is what it means in front of you. The attitude, I say, but here is everything in Parliament, all the members of the Commission for the Election and Appointing of the Central Election Commission members of the Bosniak and Serbian people, is to accept these first candidates from the list. That is the attitude – but I say everything is in Parliament – means from the order of the Bosniak people Dr Suad Arnautović, and from the order of the Serb people Mr Branko Petrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6484	I thank Mr. Jurišić. No more logged in for this agenda item. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number 50 The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Code was adopted in a different text at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. Today, three members from the House of Representatives are to be appointed to the Joint Commission of both homes in order to achieve the same text of the Law. The proposal of the House College in an extended composition is that these should be: Šefik Džaferović, Danijela Martinović, Boško Tomić. Do you have any other suggestions? I'm opening a debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Before we move to item 12 of the agenda, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on items 12 to 18 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that the House of Representatives – is this unanimous?, is – unanimously accepted this proposal, so we open a debate at all these points. Ad. 12. - 18. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6488	There's no way to get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6489	Given that there is no third member of the College, we can't conduct the alignment, so you'll be later notified. We move to a vote on the conclusions of the Commission's opinion. It's about four conclusions. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! [[Common discussion]] The word is Mr. Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6491	...before that, I apologize for reading the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6492	We have a request from the SNSD Club to vote again on four conclusions. We've read those conclusions twice today, you've got them on benches so we don't read again. [[Common discussion]] So if you don't have a problem that one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6494	You want me to read?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6495	I'm going to ask the secretary to read those conclusions again. I'd like to ask your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6496	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading the conclusions of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission opinion proposed in the process of considering the Agriculture Report for BiH. '1st. It is proposed that the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, in addition to regular reports, urgently informs the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission of the problems encountered in the implementation of the 53 objectives set out in the Roadmap and the implementation of the annual report on improving business conditions in agricultural production in order to react urgently to their removal. 2. The House of Representatives is proposed to assign the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Foreign Trade Chamber of BiH to provide a comprehensive analysis of the positive and negative effects of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, with concrete proposals for measures and activities, applicants and deadlines, with the possibility of finding a market in the transitional period of 1. 1. In 2013, where products of plant and animal origin could be placed in order to mitigate the negative consequences for bh. production have the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia. 3. The House of Representatives is proposed to ask the BiH Council of Ministers to strengthen the facilities in the BiH Plant Health Administration, the BiH Food Safety Agency and the BiH Veterinary Office to meet market requirements, especially with regard to the recognition of food control certificates. 4. It is proposed to the House of Representatives to task the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce to prepare an analysis of the negative effects by bh. companies due to customs duties imposed by Kosovo on products from our country." That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6497	Prepare to vote, so we vote on these four conclusions from the Opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6498	Any chance we can get a statement on this at the next session? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We already have one contentious conclusion...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6500	We have and he's going to post-approval, and here we have to do the first vote, and then let him go to the College. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute. Here, of course, so please prepare yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6502	Just one question. ... Do we have the ability to vote individually on the conclusions? So one conclusion is unacceptable to me, three, so to speak, are acceptable in part. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6503	It's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6504	That's not impossible for us. So, I'm asking you, would you like to vote one by one? You got it. Please prepare to vote. First we vote on the first conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! /Shortly Interrupted Recording/ ...no microphones involved... individually on each conclusion. Vote now on the first conclusion. I realize that we have a general majority, that we don't have the necessary entity majority, that we're going to get a match. We're going to another conclusion, although if this is the outcome with all the conclusions we could have done in the package, I don't know why you asked for one at a time. But good. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on a second conclusion. We vote, now! I find that the second conclusion has been given to the general but has not been given the necessary entity majority, going to the subsequent alignment. We're going to vote on the third conclusion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, that we don't have the necessary entity majority, and that goes to the subsequent alignment. We're going to vote on the fourth conclusion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. We vote, now! So here we have the general majority, we don't have the entity majority, we're going to go to a later adjustment. And at the end of this agenda, we're voting on the adoption of the report. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we have the necessary and entity majority, and I realize that we adopted the report. 55 We move to the 7th item of the agenda Consideration of the Joint Commission's opinion on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency on the review of the BiH Ministry's report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the field of the protection of classified data in 2010 Here, therefore, we are voting first on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion. Should I read that conclusion? Here are some who say we should and will read 'We call on all institutions in BiH, and above all, the BiH Ministry of Security, the BiH Ministry of Defence and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to comply with the provisions of the BiH Security Act as quickly as possible and to remove the shortcomings detected during the surveillance activities carried out by the national security authority and the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency.' I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority, we have the subsequent alignment. We are now voting on receiving eight conclusions adopted by the Joint Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, that we do not have the necessary entity majority and subsequent alignment. We move to the 8th item of the agenda Report of the Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on the initiative of MEP Mirza Kušljugić to include the point "Analysis of implementation of the obligations undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina through the signing of international agreements in the field of energy" in the second round on the initiative of MEP Mirza Kušljugić. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! We have 11 votes against the RS and this initiative is not accepted. If we had adopted this initiative, we would have voted on the conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission. Since it wasn't adopted, I don't think there's any point in voting on that either. We move to the 9th item of the agenda Report of the Joint Commission on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for amendments and addition of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH We vote on the adoption of the Report. 56 I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the House of Representatives has adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes. We move to the 10th item of the agenda Appointing members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the order of the Serb and Bosniak people (Commission candidate list for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH) You all got that list. So we have a list of candidates from the Serb people's order and a list of candidates from the Bosniak people's ranks. Yesterday, we were first on the House College, after which, and at the extended Dom College, discussing how to hold a vote within this item of the agenda, and the Extended College unanimously concluded that we first voted on the Serbian People's List of Candidates, in order to sort them out. When we choose from that list of candidates, we move on to the list of candidates from the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6506	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6507	My dear Ljubić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6508	So it's not unanimous, but it's most of the votes that he's found to vote individually on the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-22-0.u6509	Okay. The vice president's right, there were two abstentions, right? We're going to vote. First we vote on a candidate from the Serb people's order, so number one is Branko Petrić. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that Mr Branko Petrić has been elected a member of the BiH CEC in the order of the Serb people, that he has received both the necessary and the general and entity majority. We're going to vote for candidate from the Bosniak people's order. The first on the list is Mr. Suad Arnautović. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that Mr. Suad Arnautović has been elected to the CEC, that he has received the necessary both general and entity majority. 57 We move to the 11th item of the agenda: The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Single Parent Number of Glasmo on the appointment of Šefik Džaferović, Danijela Martinović and Boško Tomić in the Joint Commission of both homes. I remind you that here the Extended College was unanimous in its proposal to the House of Representatives. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that the House of Representatives appointed Šefik Džaferović, Danijela Martinović and Boško Tomić to the Joint Commission of both homes, to have received both the necessary and general and entity majority. I suggest that we vote now first on all agreements, from points 12 to 18, we declare ourselves in the package. So, first I put that motion to a vote. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that this proposal has been adopted, we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority. We are now voting on granting consent to ratifying the agreement from point 12 to point 18. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I agree that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have agreed to ratify the agreement from point 12 to point 18. I am closing the 10th session of the House of Representatives and thank you again for your constructive contribution. The seat is closed at 14.50.
