ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, respected delegates, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy and international organisations, representatives of the Central Election Commission, honored guests and representatives of the public information funds, I warmly welcome you and open a constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. According to the Rules of Procedure of the People's House before the start of the meeting, the anthem of BiH is intonated, so please stand up. Attending delegates, I warmly congratulate you on this responsible duty and I want successful work in the upcoming four-year term. Before considering the first period of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples, allow me to review the list of delegates that will be published in the “Official Messenger of BiH”, 4111 of 6 on the basis of the results delivered by the National Assembly of the Federation of BiH, and by the Central Election Commission Decision, published in “The Official Messenger of BiH”, number 4111 of 6. Six. In 2011, perform the duties of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the coming period. I would remind you that according to the BiH Constitution and the BiH Election Law, this house is elected by 15 delegates, including 10 delegates from the Federation of BiH and five delegates from Republika Srpska territory. In the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the following delegates were appointed delegates of the Bosniak people Sulejman Tihić, Nermina Kapetanović, Hasan Bećirović, Halid Genjac and Mehmed Bradarić. The delegates from the Croatian people are Dragan ĉović, Borjana Krišto, Krunoslav Vrdoljak, Josip merdţo and Stjepan Krešić. From RS delegates are Dragutin Rodić, me - Krstan Simić, Mladen Ivanić, Ognjen Tadić and Staša Košarac. With the invitation to this session, you have also received the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples relating to the establishment of this home, the establishment of clubs of the people, the election of the chairman and the vice-president of the 2 chair, and the decision-making of the House of Peoples. The materials found in the parliamentary procedure will be delivered to you and distributed afterwards. You have received such a publication with the text of the Constitution of BiH, the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with amendments and additions, the vodiĉ for MPs and delegates and the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions. It is my duty to ask you to fill out the delegate's charts and hand them over at your clubs. These were the basic remarks we are obliged to give you before establishing the agenda of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Now we move to establishing the agenda of the constitutional session of the House of Peoples. You, as you can see from your materials, have also received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. 1. Advocacy of all delegates, 2. Founding clubs of the people, 3. The election of the chairperson, first and second vice-chairman of the House of People in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, if no amendments to the agenda have been proposed, shall be deemed adopted. In the absence of any suggestions, we believe that this is the agenda in which we will work today. We're moving on to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. Making all of the delegations' statements
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u5	'I'm obliging myself,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u6	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u7	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u8	I respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u9	I respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u10	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u11	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u12	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u13	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u14	to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u15	to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u16	Thank you. You made an all-out statement. I remind you again that a signed copy of this all-you-can-eat statement is returning to the service, and one remains for you... a document. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, we have obtained the conditions for carrying out the delegate's duty. I find that there are 15 delegates present at the session, five of them from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people and five from the Serbian people, we are fully present. I find that we have the necessary quorum for full decision-making. 4 We move on to another agenda that reads: Ad. 2. Founding of clubs of the people Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the People's House were designed to establish three clubs of delegates of the constituent peoples after giving the all-out declaration. Is there any need for us to take a break for the agreement on the agreement of clubs, or of 5 minutes, or are the clubs ready to present their proposals immediately; 15 minutes...? Yes, we have a suggestion to take a break and the break will be 15 minutes, and in that time, clubs could agree on their proposals to continue their work. Thank you. _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u20	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Bosniak People's Delegates Club elected me, i.e. Halid Genjac, and Deputy Chairman Hasan Bećirović at its meeting today. 5 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u21	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I find that Mr Halid Genjac has been appointed as the chairman of the Bosniak People's Club of Representatives, and Mr Hasan Bećirović has been appointed as deputy, and we continue. I would like to ask a representative of the Croatian People's Club to inform the House who has been elected chairman and vice-president of the Croatian People's Delegations Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u22	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and colleagues, I use the opportunity before I inform this house, that all fellow Members and colleagues in the House of Peoples I would like to make a choice in the House of Peoples and wish all of us a successful work in this distinguished and respected home. takoċer, I ţelim like to inform this home that the Club of Envoys of the Croatian People for the Chairman of the Club has unanimously chosen me, Borjana Krišto, and as vice president of the Club of Mr. Josip merdţu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u23	Thank you, Lady Krišto. I find that Mrs Borjana Krišto has been elected as the chairman of the Croatian People's Club of Delegations, and Deputy Mr. Josip merdţo. Thank you and congratulations. takoċe, by the same procedure, I would ask a representative of the Serbian People's Club to inform the House who was elected chairman, and who was the deputy chairman of the Serb people's order? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to join Mrs. Krišto sixties and wish for a happy work in this house, and I hope that we will show it in part today's session. In accordance withlans 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on 9.6.11., was established by the Club of Delegates of the Serbian People in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Staša Košarac was elected president and Deputy Dragutin Rodić. The decision was reached unanimously and certified by the signatures of all the Serb national delegates' club. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. I find that Mr. Staša Košarac and his deputy, Mr. Dragutin Rodić, were appointed as the chairman of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates. Congratulations to the chosen one. Now, after the appointment of the chairman and vice-president of the people's clubs in the House of the Peoples, we move to the 3rd Thak agenda, which is: Ad. 3. Selection of the chairperson, first and second vice-president of the House of Nationals It's a 7-Eleven. The rules of procedure of the House of Peoples are as follows. ''The 7th position (1): After the clubs of the people have been established, the House chooses among its members a Bošnjak, one Hrvat and one Srbin who will perform the duties of the chairman, first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Peoples. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the House of Representatives." The 7th position (2) provides: 'Every club of the people and every delegate shall have the right to propose candidates for the abovementioned duties. If there are more candidates for one place, the first vote is for the candidate proposed by the club of the people. After a list of candidates is established for each place, it shall be voted." Paragraph 7: 'If no candidate has received the required majority or received the same number of votes, the vote shall be repeated for the two candidates who received the highest number of votes. Paragraph 7: 'The choice decision shall be made at the decided decision of the House of People, by the fact that, in the light of the agreement, it shall be agreed by the presidents of the clubs of the people, if the agreement fails – the vote shall be repeated.' We, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, have also received provisions from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples concerning decision-making in the House of Peoples. However, let me remind you before proposing candidates of some of the provisions that are relevant, which are provisions of both 73 and 74. Rules of Procedure. ''Lan 73. (Decision): All decisions in both homes are made by the majority of the votes of those present and voting. Delegates and MPs will make every effort to include at least one third of the votes of delegates or MPs from the territory of each entity. If most votes do not include one-third of the votes of delegates or MPs from the territory of each entity, the chairman and his deputies will meet as a commission and try to secure agreement within three days of the 7th vote. If that fails, decisions shall be made by a majority of the votes cast by those present and voting on condition that the votes 'against' shall not contain two-thirds or more delegates or MPs elected from each entity." ''Lan 74. (Decision - the lack of one entity's votes) If most votes do not contain one third of the votes from the territory of each entity, the Kolegijum, acting as a commission, will seek to reach agreement within three days. If the chair and vice-presidents of the Chair reach the agreement referred to in Article 73(3) of this Rules of Procedure, the relevant decision of the House shall be deemed to be adopted and the House shall be informed of the relevant decision. Exceptionally from the provision of the 19th Rules of Procedure, the consensus of the Chair and the two vice-presidents shall be reached. If the Kolegijum succeeds in reaching agreement, it shall inform the House thereof, after which the vote shall be voted in accordance with Article 73. Rules of Procedure. If that vote does not obtain the required majority, it shall be voted immediately in accordance with Rule 74(3) of the Rules of Procedure. In the case that there is no quorum, if after a break chairing the establishment or voting shows that there is still no quorum, the matter considered shall be raised for the next session. If the delegate does not declare himself against, against or abstaining from the vote, and he is present in the hall at the time of the vote, he is deemed to be abstentioned." Before joining the proposal for the chairman, first and second vice-president of the House of Peoples, I would like to remind you that Mr Denis Bećirović was elected as the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives of BiH, Mr Milorad ţivković of the order of the Serb people, and the second vice-presidential home of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was appointed Mr boţo Ljubić of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 7(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, chairing cannot be elected from the same constitutional people as the chairman of the House of Representatives. Taking into account the 7th position (2), the clubs of the people as well as the delegates have the right to propose a candidate for the chairman, i.e. as vice-president of the House of Peoples. First, we should propose a candidate for the chairman of the House of Peoples, and in this case, the seat of the presidential candidate belongs to the Croatian or Serbian people, given the situation that Mr. Denis Bećirović is now in office. Then we propose the first vice-president, he comes from the order of the Bosniak/Croatian, that is, how is proposed, and then the second vice-president from the Serbian/Bosnian order, respecting the rule that at this time, no candidate from the Bosniak people can be proposed for the chairman. I would like to remind you that Article 22 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations provides for the following: the seat of the chairman shall be automatically rotated, without voting, every eight months, starting from the day of the election of the chairman. I ask the chairman of the Croatian or Serbian national delegates' club to propose a candidate for the presidency of the House of Peoples. Here comes Mr. Staša Košarac first, and then I give him a solution. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u27	I, of course, use the opportunity to ĉestitam everyone and express my hope that we will respect the Constitution of BiH and the Dayton Agreement. At today's session, we unanimously decided to comply with the 7th session. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the chairman of the House of Peoples should be proposed by Mr Ognjen Tadić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u28	Thank you. Given that I have just recently told you that delegates have the right to propose, whether any of the delegates in the order of the Serb people have another proposal, with this right of course not exclusively for, but for delegates from the other two peoples. Any other suggestions? I understand that there are no proposals and that Serbian people's delegates have proposed Ognjen Tadić without other proposals from delegates. Now I'd like to make other suggestions. Ms. Borjana Krišto from the Croatian people's order.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u29	Thank you very much. takoċer, once again, the Honorable Chairman, here I would, on behalf of the Club of Envoys of the Croatian People, and on the basis of the 7th The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples in the person of Dr Dragan ĉovića. The Hrvat from the Croatian people's ranks made this decision unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u30	Thank you, Lady Krišto. I'm asking the other delegates to see if there's a proposal for; here, I see Mr. Halid Genjac has come forward. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u31	In accordance with the current provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Bošnjak Club has unanimously set up a proposal for the deputy chairman of the House of Peoples – Mr Sulejman Tihić. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u32	Thank you. We just messed up a little bit. Did I understand that there is no other proposal for the first deputy gentleman, except for Mr. Dragan ĉovića? I find that there are no proposals, that for the candidate for the vice-president, either the first or the second, we will see according to this schedule, proposed Mr Dragan ĉović when it comes to the Croatian people, and so I suggest that, unanimously in front of the Bošnjak klub, Mr Sulejman Tihić was proposed without any other candidate of any of the delegates, with the secretary giving me the knowledge that Mr Tihić would be the second deputy in view of this structure that we now have. znaĉi, the proposal is for Mr. Tihić to be the second deputy in view of this national balance we have. Thank you. We have candidates. Now you'd... _________(?) /no microphone turned on/ Who's got a solution? Again, here comes Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u34	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Bosniaks Club, I propose one break of 20 minutes before the session continues, after we have received proposals from the candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u35	Thank you. It's accepted and I hope we'll be more gentle than during this break. So, let's all be at 13.45... [[PAUZA]] Please continue your work. I see all the delegates are in their seats. Mr. Genjac asked for a break. Will you explain the reasons?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u37	/No microphone/ 10 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is there anyone else to report for re-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u39	The microphone is not on.. In fact, it seems a little weird that we from the SDP and HSP supported Mr. -ĉovića - to the president... I'd like to explain the reasons, because I think and I find them very important... In the Club of Delegations of the Croatian people, we tried those two, and I hope that the representatives of these other two parties from the Croatian people thought that the situation that is in our small country was absolutely relaxed, so because of this relaxation, we were willing to support Mr. ĉovića, but we have assessed that and we said that it would be better to have this election for the leadership of the House of Nations more directly with the elections for the Council of Ministers.... so in that sense, such a decision was unanimously taken... Thinking now on this break... with foreign colleagues we concluded that there was no need to raise a choice. We therefore stand behind the election of Mr. ĉovića, at least Krešić and I think so, but we believe that... this should absolutely be understood as an attempt to minimise the situation in the Croatian club and that finally and the Croatian club in that wider coalition..., which we are proposing from the SDP, to Croatian parties who consider themselves legitimate and legal and to try to do something at that level. This is, therefore, an attempt to make concessions that we appreciate very useful for the future work of this House of Parliamentary Assembly and the state of BiH.... I just wanted this to be known as an attitude because... I repeat, a decision was made to go with a proposal to take this toll off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vrdoljak. I think I share the satisfaction of all the delegates here that it is a good step to establish the Parliament of the BiH Assembly and... to create certain conditions so that we can continue around the further establishment of the authorities and to carry out those tasks entrusted to us in these elections, either directly or through delegates. Thanks again. Anybody else want to say anything? Thank you. I'm guessing it doesn't. Now we're going to approach the vote, given that today we're all a little stressful in this quest to do this job. We'll vote on the charts, with me going to vote in a row on how it goes. First we'll vote for the chairman, then we'll vote for the first deputy, and then we'll vote for the second deputy to honor that hierarchy... I have a notice that this issue is also resolved, that the first deputy will be a representative of the Croatian people, and then, if you have that information, we will go with the vote. 11 For the chairman of the House of People is proposed Mr. Ognjen Tadić. I urge you to put your position on this proposal in a vote. Who's for? Thank you. I find that with 15 votes of all delegates, Mr Tadić has been elected the chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH [[APLAuz]] and I congratulate him on this occasion in choosing this very important and responsible function and I hope that we will all cooperate well with him. I'm putting on a motion vote for the first deputy. The first deputy was proposed exclusively and only Mr Dragan ĉović. So, I ask who is "for" the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly to be Mr Dragan? I also find that this opportunity, with 15 votes, is unanimous for the first deputy chairman of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, Dragan ĉović, whom I am voting on. And finally, so, we had a proposal from the only candidate for... another deputy, that's Mr. Sulejman Tihić, so I'm putting this proposal to the vote. So, I ask who's "for" that Mr. Tihić is elected second deputy of the House of Peoples? I takoċe find that, with 15 votes of the delegates, Mr Sulejman Tihić has been elected to the second deputy chairman, and also to him from the heart of the delegates, and especially as his long-standing... associate. Given that the selection of the presidents of the presidency, i.e. the chairman and the first and second deputies, has been completed, and I call on the chosen ones to take over the places in which they have been unanimously elected today, and I also consider it a good message for our future co-operation and future work.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u42	I'm taking the opportunity to take advantage of an official payphone to thank the chosen ones on behalf of the chosen ones. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, delegates... Well, a colleague of ĉović says that it may not have been expected that we will use this pay phone today. 12 Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the adopted members of the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives, guests, respected public, there were many different assessments, qualifications, analysis of the possibilities for today's work. I, I'm convinced on behalf of everyone, that I realize that no single person has succeeded today, nor has any party succeeded, nor has any club succeeded. The Dayton Peace Accords worked today. In the spirit of the Dayton Peace Agreement and its Annex IV. We should continue our cooperation and work. I want to congratulate my colleagues and Tihić. I would like to thank you for your trust and, of course, the opportunity for colleagues, as first deputy, and counterpart Tihić, as second deputy, to address you. I think this session... has exhausted the agenda, its contents, and we could lock it up if you agree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u43	Thank you very much. Well, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, distinguished guests, I thank from the heart first of all the gentlemen of the MPs who gave us support in the election for, here I am personally, the first chair and the other two colleagues. I hope that everything that stands before us, for the next 3.5 – 4 years, we will be able to work on the welfare of BiH, its three peoples and all citizens of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u44	Dear delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you so much for your support in the election for the College of the House of Peoples. I congratulate my colleagues, ognjen Tadić and Dragan ĉoviću. I think we've done one final piece of work on this one when it comes to establishing a BiH-level legislative authority. I am convinced that we will all work in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the Dayton Agreement, that we will work for the benefit of all our peoples, citizens and our homeland of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-09-0.u45	I thank my colleagues and I am ĉoviću Tihić and I realize that a constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been concluded. Thank you. The seat is closed at 14.17. [[APLAuz]]
