ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6510	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 11th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Božo Ljubić and Milorad Živković justified their absence, and some who announced the delay, here, I see they are present, so I won't even read any further. According to the information service, 33 MPs are present today. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As you know, today's session has only one item on the agenda and I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Since there are no reports in this section, or there are. Mr. Beriz Belkić, discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6511	Well, I'm surprised, to tell you the truth, that we're wasting both time and money on one item of the agenda, of course not questioning the importance. We could at least ask MPs questions and answers today about one expense, which our people say, but here, I don't insist, because probably people aren't ready. Something has come up and we could use it, as I say again, to cost this thing, so that people at least ask parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6512	Okay. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We heard Mr. Belkić's suggestion. I just want to say that we have already scheduled the 12th session of the House of Representatives, where we will have close to 39 points of the agenda, so there will be opportunities and to express our views on this and also to ask new parliamentary questions. 2 I find that the 11th session of the House has the following 1. A proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to execute the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH. So I'm opening this first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. A proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to execute the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6515	Here, I thank you for this additional clarification of yours, and I'm going to leave out some things that I wanted to say, but here's how you answered me. I absolutely have no intention of questioning the establishment of this commission, as this is one signal that this new assembly wants something to do with this verdict being finally implemented. But it's amazing that it all starts from the beginning, as so far nothing has been done. So, we're making a new commission again, although it was established by the Council of Ministers, it was also large, it was represented by parties, peoples etc., it was done for several months. If nothing, I suggest to this new commission that it comes from what three did not agree on. So eight months has been done, hundreds of pages of material have, variations etc., so to use those experiences that have been established until then. On the very conclusion, I'm not a lawyer, I won't talk too much, but it's clear that if you mention that the conclusion is arranged by the organization and some important issues, and there aren't, it's clear that then the conclusion itself is quite problematic. In conclusion, then, it was likely necessary to say how many members, which types, from which homes, etc. And of course, I think you should say that working on this committee is free of charge. And that's one of the important questions. The most I've answered for is the following. Therefore, it is intended that this Commission prepares amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to the Election Law, in a way that eliminates discrimination against those who are not members of the constituent peoples. Article 3 of this conclusion states, in the first session of the constitutive, however you wish, that the chairpersons and the first and second deputy members of the three constituent nations should be elected among their members. So the conclusion itself is discriminatory, indirect. So it is explicitly said that they are handling a working group, or a team that needs to do a model to eliminate discrimination, that practically others, or people who do not belong to these nations, cannot be chosen and I am asking and intervene to delete this 'from the three constituent nations', if we really want to send a message that we understand what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6516	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Darko Babalj, for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6517	Chairman, here's to greet you all. I think we are all aware of the situation we are in and that today's Parliament's session should pass in one tone, i.e. to show one message about how steps can be made in BiH. I don't think we're going to be political here today, and the situation we're in didn't deserve to be politicians, so I'm going to be brief and suggest on behalf of the SDS, from the House of Representatives, Mr Borislav Bojić as a member of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6518	The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6519	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will take a few sentences more than my predecessor. The adoption of the proposed conclusion is the best way to avoid this process being anything. I'll explain. The conclusion establishes the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling. I am not sure... how much this is the Joint Committee for the Implementation of the Verdict, which is more said in Article 4, which is the purpose of even forming this committee, so not to carry out the verdict, but to prepare an amendment to the Constitution, and then three points. 4 If we decide, and we see that the House of Peoples has decided to form a Joint Commission, then we know that the Joint Commission has 12 members, and that six members are representatives from the House of Representatives, six from the House of Peoples, and then the question is asked, and here I would like someone from the House of Nations to answer this question – how is it that only two people from the House of Nations are offered in the proposal? So, taking care of the Rules of Procedure, there are four more people missing from the House of Peoples and six from the House of Representatives. As counterpart Belkić noted, quite correctly, there is no record of who the members are and how many members this commission numbers. If it's a Joint Commission we know it's 12, and if the agreement is that members of all political parties are participating in the work of this commission, and we know it is a deal, it's not 12, it's 13. That puts the problem and quorum of this commission and the way to decide. But what is most controversial is actually Article 3 and its final position which says: "All decisions of the Interim Commission are made by consensus of all members." So this is something that I said that first sentence to adopt these decisions, in fact, this is how we travel the way so that nothing can be done about it. I really don't understand who that's meant to be? Why is it that all decisions of the Interim Commission are made by consensus of its members, I really don't understand it? Why does the decision to schedule a session, why the choice of leadership, why does it have to be a consensus? I would understand if someone had said, although this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, that the proposal for a final solution with which this committee will come before Parliament is adopting a consensus, I would understand the intention of why it is proposed. But all these technical things to be adopted by consensus, that's impossible. This commission will not move away from its constitutional session. See here what it says: 'At the first constitutive session, the Interim Commission selects among its members the chairperson, first and second deputy.' And what if one of the 13 members, or 12, or how many of them will already be, simply doesn't vote, doesn't like the president's proposal. That means we're stuck in the first session and that this commission can't continue to work. Provided he chooses the chairman, the chairman suggests he works twice a week. One of the people says no, I'm against it. So you can't even work. I propose that the session be held on Wednesday, one says - neither can Wednesday. I have indeed tried to find an example where committees on such technical matters decide by consensus and have found no example. Here, if any of my colleagues know, I'd like them to tell me, maybe they have some positive experience with this kind of decision-making. Except that it is through Article 2 which speaks about the composition of the commission, and Article 3 that regulates the decision-making process, which is not an example of the conclusion that the commission is formed to decide on the way it works, usually whether all commissions adopt their rules of procedure. In addition to breaking the Rules of Procedure, we still need to keep in mind the importance of the issues we are dealing with today. And the team is more of a surprise to our members of the SDP Club that this missed our colleagues in the House of Peoples. To be perfectly precise, no one is absolved from guilt because the House of Nations unanimously adopted this, so representatives of all parties who have their delegates there. And this isn't addressed to anyone personally or to any party personally. But what came to us as a unanimously adopted conclusion to the House of Nations, let us have the right to say that it was not properly solved, without any intention whatsoever, and I will end with this, in order to avoid political and any debate, that we want to say that someone's goal was to make such a bad decision, as they have said, I must be honest, all of my colleagues from all the political parties at the session of the Expansive College. So that's something we agree on, and that's not where we're going to chase the witch. 5 What is it that we can do today to correct this decision, we will see through the discussion. I've listed a few things that are questionable. So, first of all, we think that instead of the Interim Joint Commission, if we want representatives of all political parties to participate, then we need to form an Ad hoc commission. So, first that. If we want all political party representatives to work, and we want to, and that's the deal, then through the Ad hoc commission we should also define somewhere through this text that members and the Ad hoc commission are representatives of parliamentary parties. Then we have every excuse and foundation to count which parties they are and to give all parties their representatives. As much as they are and to what extent so far the proposed members have agreed among the parties, it is not my place to say it, but there have also been dissonant tones. And I really think that, with little corrections, in the sense that we form an Ad hoc commission first of all, to define clearly who the members of the Ad hoc commission are and to throw out this part to make all decisions by consensus, because that is something that is the way that this commission has problems at the very beginning of work. I think we could, with these little adjustments, technically but very important, if we adopted them, so we could say that we fixed this conclusion and finished the job as far as the House of Representatives is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6520	The replica was reported by Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6521	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like first of all to realize that if there's a political will to solve a problem, there's no need for any commission. If there is room to find a solution, the commission is not needed. Since there has obviously been no such space so far, there has been no opportunity to agree on how we will address the issue of judgments by Sejdić and Finc. The people's home unanimously adopted a decision that opens up the whole process, which should lead to all parties giving their proposal and their views on how to resolve the issue of Sejdić and Finc's verdict. Prior to that, the Joint College failed to reach an agreement on what the commission would look like. And that is why we welcome the decision of the House of Peoples in which almost all parties, and the growing parties, represented and whose MPs, i.e. delegates, voted for the decision that we have today on the agenda and we propose that, and if there is a shortage in that decision, this House adopts such a decision, fills the members of all the other parties that are parliamentary, this commission, that the commission start to work, to unblock the whole process, and if there are problems in its functioning to make the decision and to meet here and unblock, if there is a blockade. So if we don't make the same decision as the People's House, we're going back to the whole procedure from the beginning. Mr. Magazinović mentioned several times that the decision by consensus in this commission, as it says in this decision, is a problem for them. I don't think that's the problem. The commission will not adopt a change to the Constitution and will not adopt and adopt amendments that will change the Constitution. That's what this home has to do. Therefore, let us unblock the work of the commission, put all parties on the table, see if there is room for an agreement on the amendments to the Constitution following the decision of Sejdić and Finc, and finally come to a solution. If someone doesn't want us to come to a solution, they'll always find a way to block six whole processes and they'll always be unhappy with something. Therefore, and if there are any shortcomings in this decision, I urge the House to vote it, and to consider later whether it should be changed during the commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6522	I thank Mr. Bosić. Saša Magazinović appears for the replica, but I would now ask the Secretary of the House of Representatives, here if Col. Magazinović agrees, before the replica reads precisely what the business provisions in force both in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples are doing, how these temporary joint committees are doing, so that we are immediately clear whether this is in accordance with or not with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Branka. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6527	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the legal basis as set out in the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Commission is Article 47 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and is identical in the House of Peoples. It means, 'Homes can, on the proposal of MPs, delegates... 7
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6528	I'll ask the MPs really for attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6529	So I am talking about Article 47(2): 'Homes may, on the proposal of MPs, delegates and club Members and delegates, establish temporary joint committees, to monitor, consider and explore specific issues, as well as to prepare and present proposals for the adoption of laws and other general acts from both homes' jurisdiction.' So this is a question of the joint commissions of both homes. Article 48 further defines the number and structure. There's no need to specifically specify, we assume we all know about it. As for the definition and quorum and the way decisions are made in the joint committees, this is Article 49, which says: 'The quorum for the work of the commission makes up seven commission members, of which at least half of the members of the commission are from each home. The Joint Commission shall decide by simple majority of the members present and voting, on condition that the majority shall contain at least one third of the members of each home, who are present and who vote, and one representative from the constituent people, whose representative shall be present and who shall vote." These are provisions that speak of the work of joint committees. I do not know if there is any need to say that the Joint Commission applies in its work the other general provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House on the work of the Commission, which is Article 52. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6530	I would like to thank the Secretary of the House of Representatives. Aleksandra Pandurević is reporting for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6531	Ma, I must say that if Mrs Todorović is right, then we have, even in this session, broken the Rules of Procedure, because we have formed some temporary commissions, I think in this assembly one or four of them, one of which was not 12 members, but six of them. Article 48. (Is that 48th, yes) refers to permanent joint committees. Article 49 for the decision-making process and Article 165. Our Rules of Procedure say, "The House of Conclusion can regulate specific issues that are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure." Mode of work, the number of decisions by temporary joint committees is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Here, I have here from 2007 to 2007, where temporary joint committees are formed, and none of these commissions have been formed in accordance with Article 48(1). I'm really asking you not to go through obstructions here. I didn't even know how much Mr. Tadić looked like when he said, it seems to me, Mr. Genjac asked a question – why can't it be decidently stated that each parliamentary party must have one member at a time? And Mr. Tadić said – I'm afraid we don't have a April package and Mehmed Žilić. I'm really calling here, don't repeat things from the April package, don't let someone promote themselves again to Mehmet Žilić, but let's unblock this country. Don't let 8 go into isolation, don't take us into confrontation with the international community. Let's find a solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6532	The word, i.e. the replica, has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6533	I would only like to remind my colleagues of Article 47 (2), which literally states that home to its conclusions on the proposal of MPs, delegates and clubs can form temporary joint committees. So, since most of the members of the House of Nations are new members, they have literally copied them from the Rules of Procedure. Which is our rules of procedure as it is,...it's no problem, it's a problem... it's not the only case where we stumble when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. So, the House of Peoples did what it says here. It takes very little to make a deal, even to ignore all the mistakes that are there. So, who has a desire to make a step forward, and I was on the last commission that didn't want to make a step forward, I think we can agree today, finish this job and send a message that BiH has finally joined the business that is expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6534	Mr. Beriz Belkić called for the replica, and then for the discussion, let his colleague, Đugum, prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6535	Kolegaca Pandurević collects various data very carefully and accurately, and here are the commissions since 2007, even if it is!? When the April package is mentioned, your colleague Novaković was against the April package then, here in this parliament, and Mr. Žilić, since he is unable to answer you, would not be okay to mention it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, Mr. Novaković voted against the package, but well, well, looks like the April package's never coming out of your head, but there it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6537	The word has Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6538	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and the media. 9 I would present one of my dilemmas, which was before the very opening of today's Parliament's session, where I suggested that we absolutely not go to Parliament with debate. For what reason? We, as leaders of the opposition, can't like what's going on in both the College and the Expansive College, and we can't iron out that we have, like, negative tensions here and at one point. We have no need and there is no real sense in sending signals of negative energy from BiH further towards Europe. I suggested that there be no debate here, that one common position be reached in the College, one reconciliation decision that would satisfy all together, where we would adopt the decision and where we would go forward. We didn't come to this, we opened the debate, and then a man has to say he's not satisfied with this decision, that she is at certain times violating part of the Rules of Procedure... which is stated etc. They're not contentious things that must be crucial in our decision-making, but surely they're controversial things if you want to make obstructions. The verdict was passed on 22.12.2009, with the deadline to be implemented, not implemented. It's sad, sad and at this very moment that we've been discussing the decision for two years and that we don't have an absolute today, because the Joint College of both homes didn't have a common solution, so the College of the Peoples made this decision. It doesn't make sense. At our House College, an informal meeting, and an extended college of our parliament, we couldn't agree. Why should we here all 42 MPs, if we have our representatives in the College, discuss all 42, if we can discuss in clubs and make a proposal that will be adopted at the College. Let's not let this energy go negative amongst the citizens, among the people, and poison ourselves among ourselves. I would here, I say, without any liquefying, invite all my colleagues that, if possible today, we meet together at both homes, that if we are to be here by 8:00, and at 8:00, we vote on a decision that will be taken by both homes. All the debate that's being held here will be in favor of replicas, in favour of raising tensions, and we don't need that. I think as people, as responsible people, we show an example to citizens who voted that we can do without intense tensions on the formation of a commission to complete this work today. The citizens voted for us not to light fire, but to solve the problem. If there were any good will in the parties that are the backbone of the authorities at this point, this wouldn't need a commission. ... Constitutional changes would be passed, votes would be passed, we would vote here and settle everything within five minutes. There is no will, but do not involve negative energy among the parties, among MPs, among colleagues who must continue for three years together and work and live side by side and always, whenever we see each other, at least smile at each other, if not more. I call on all colleagues to hold the debate for six hours, five hours, and we'll take a break again, and the extended college will discuss the proposals again, but there is no College of the Peoples involved. If we don't have the House of Peoples College involved, then there will be conflicts between the Colleges of the House of Peoples and our College of the House, or one or the other... These are negative tensions, we send a bad picture to citizens, first of all, a bad picture towards Europe. If we're going to make something quick that's coming down with the College of the People's House and turn out to be, so to speak, smarter in class than this decision someone's taking, someone doesn't accept, then we can only do it together, and one and another college and there's no more sparks here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6539	The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6540	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SDA Representatives Club in this house. In fact, a year has passed since the elections and the last time this issue has been formally treated – it is the Council of Ministers that adopted the Decision on the establishment of the Working Group for the Implementation of the Action Plan, etc., that was 9. 3. 2010 Gentlemen, we as responsible people need to take part of the responsibility, a team before some political parties get stronger support from voters and citizens expect us to work more efficiently and efficiently in this home. Therefore, any delay in the implementation of the Human Rights Court decision in the case of Sjedić and Finc v BiH, I do not think we are in favour of it. Of course, the Club of Representatives of the SDA is aware of the shortcomings this conclusion has adopted by the House of Peoples. And the biggest problem, in fact, is in this conclusion in its very title, says, the conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes, and the provisional joint commissions, in fact, was taken from the Rules of Procedure which creates confusion in the whole of this problem. Then, for the implementation of the verdict, the Interim Joint Commission is unlikely to implement the verdict, but should prepare proposals for amending and supplementing the Constitution, amending and supplementing the Election Law on the implementation of the Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg. Therefore, we are aware of the problem, but we are also aware that if we adopt this today, we do not violate the Rules of Procedure. Why? A kolegica, Pandurević, cited a member whose home can, in conclusion, also amend the rules of the Rules of Procedure, and is just the conclusion in the title. And Article 1 defines what we are actually concluding today, and we conclude that this conclusion establishes the Interim Joint Commission. I say, her own name may be clumsy because it is identified with this name in the House's Rules of Procedure, and she says, "This member, or this conclusion, is determined by her organisation and tasks, and other issues are being identified relevant to the work of this temporary commission." So we're changing actually the business provisions, here, in Article 1 of this conclusion. Therefore, we are aware that there may be an abuse in Article 3 of this conclusion. He says, "All the decisions of the Interim Commission are made by consensus," and even when this committee will meet, and that one of the members of that committee can say, "I don't feel comfortable tomorrow for private reasons and that it eventually blocks the work of this committee." But in any case, in the course of this commission's work, the commission will probably report this home if there are any blockades, and we will eventually be able to remove those blockades. Therefore, the Club of Representatives, aware of all the shortcomings this conclusion has, is ready today to support this conclusion in the same text as it was adopted in the House of Peoples and to show, in fact, not only to the world and to this world public, but also to the citizens of BiH that we are responsible for, here, moving forward, making a step forward, regardless of all the problems that my colleagues have previously talked about. Therefore, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDA, I propose that in the composition of this Interim Joint Commission on behalf of the SDA Club be our colleague, Šefik Džaferović. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6541	The word has Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6542	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My request is that today, as far as possible, we spare the chairman, since he works in the back of the system, so that all those who are right to have that fact in mind that he can't get to the pay phone, since the other two members of the Kolegijum are not there, means a purely technical note, which I don't dispute that these others are right. Here, here the SNSD needs to be defined now between these indifferences to the state and these guardians for the procedure. We don't belong to each other, we try to be political realists, and it's very easy for us to define ourselves because we were in favour of implementing the decision in the case of Sejdić and Finc, not tomorrow, not today, but yesterday. And we don't have that, you know that, a long time ago problem. And this looks a little funny, like from that bass where the horseshoes are, and you know how it goes, now that it's still a horse and then beat around a horse that's not there. So it is interesting here that those who are in favour today, and it is known what positions are and so on, but let's keep it for discussion, we will have enough time, as he said, and often said, Nikola Pašić – you have no one to oppose here today because everyone is right. Everyone who spoke from their positions, they all have arguments and there's no reason to argue, and I can't avoid not agreeing to all these things that we need this. The SNSD stands at the point that we need to finish this job, but also since the cards are on the table and this is our thing internally, but here our partner Europe, an old good Europe, but also an old good cheater Europe. And if she's willing to continue to cheat with us, here we are today to participate in a line, if in the end, God Bog, it's a scam. So someone mentioned it today, you can finish here in 24 hours and carry out the verdict if there's political will. And if it doesn't exist, then we can have about 100 commissions, around the score, about the rules, about the Rules of Procedure, and about everything else, we can have a debate forever, because that's the important thing. One thing that is definitely coming out today that the Joint College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is definitely not working. And because strangers need a decision today, we can get their eyes dirty but they know it, and that's a bigger problem for me than this decision itself. If it worked for me today, as we planned, we had a five-minute session, we ended it, we have what we have. As far as I know the House of Peoples is concerned with some vital national interests, but it is not an institution that should run to create all political processes in the country. I don't get it here, but here, okay, so it happened the way it happened. It's irrelevant to comment in the sense that we don't have a moment, it doesn't come to mind, so in any way we're obstructing, but we can't object. So, all what counterpart Saša Magazinović said about this decision, that's what it stands for. That's what it stands for. Since we have often accepted that we are only humiliating ourselves, that we are in violation, that we are in an impossible situation, there is no reason to do so now, because the more important thing is to implement the verdict. And this internal question of ours why we accept it and why the foreigners were harassing us here, but when it suits them, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution can be trampled, and that's our other story because no one here can escape from reality. We'll come to the right field where it doesn't matter the marks, and the decisions, and the quorum, and the rest, but political attitudes will matter. I mean, we'll be there soon, and that's why I think we should avoid any possible controversy today. I think we should finish this. 12 We have said that we cannot as a serious political party not to object in the way this is done, but at the same time we do not remember to use it for any obstruction. Here, these Samo-candidians from the House of Peoples, we accept that they have proposed and that the SNSD has its representative, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6543	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6544	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here is the shortest, as far as we are concerned from the HDZ BiH, we welcome and support the opening of this process which, hopefully, will ultimately result in adequate changes to the BiH Constitution and will ultimately result in no one, whether it is a member of a national may or a constituent nation, being discriminated against in this country and having equal rights. When it comes to a particular proposal for a conclusion adopted at the House of Peoples, I will be very brief. It's obvious that the very name of this working body, this task force, could be more adequate than what it says here. However, the real question is whether we will focus more on being or on certain formal finesse. It is my concern that neither our Rules of Procedure nor the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have actually regulated such working bodies or working groups. Article 47(2), which Mrs Branka read, discusses the monitoring, consideration and presentation of proposals for the adoption of laws or other acts. Changing the Constitution is neither the law nor the other act. And so I join this interpretation, namely this warning from my colleague Aleksandra, that this conclusion actually regulates a matter which is not precisely regulated by the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to go into any other details right now. I think this is enough for now. As for us, I repeat once again, from the HDZ for BiH, we will support this conclusion, and as for the representatives of the HDZ, he is in this task force, he is already indicated in this conclusion of the House of Peoples, that is Mrs Borjana Krišto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6545	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6546	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good day. As for today's agenda, I think we should praise the fact that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has taken the strength and wisdom to reach a unanimous conclusion on the formation of the Interim Commission. Otherwise, I'm not one of those people who likes to deal with formalities, so accordingly, I'm willing to turn a blind eye to all these shortcomings that have been made regarding defining the work of this Interim Joint Commission. 13 I think it is more important here to devote ourselves to the essence, and the bottom line is that BiH is embarrassed by our inaction and non-implementation of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc against the state of BiH and that we should, for some future relations with, under quote, the normal world that we should resolve this issue. I think now is a good time, and I think it's a good time for everyone to participate in this, because the responsibility for ending this process is on all of us. I am particularly interested in this because I am probably the only representative in the House of Representatives who pleads as the others. In addition, in our Rules of Procedure, I have closed the door for a possible run for any leading position, either in the commission, or in the House, etc. So I think if we solve this issue, we're going to have to deal with a lot of other issues, and all in order to get back to the line of our oath that we took here when we said that all citizens would be equal and equal, and they're not even in this House of Representatives. I think if we have the will and desire to finish this job, we won't be disturbed by formalities like the way we decide, etc. If we're not interested in it, then there's nothing that can help us. I welcome the intensification that representatives of all political parties are involved in the work of this commission, and in this sense, as a representative of the DNZ, I propose a representative of Nermin Purić, therefore, my smallness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6547	The word has Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished fellow MPs, listening to all these discussions seem to have failed to assess the situation we are in. If we fell at this small step at first, then that big step waiting for us will never begin to be implemented. You know very well what the verdict of an international court like this means. She's, in a way, for a country like ours, in transition still, as they like to call us, some kind of laums of paper, some kind of test balloon to see how we're going to act. Remember, the international community has adopted the Dayton Peace Agreement and its most important segment of the Dayton Constitution. These same people are now trying to make us grow up politically and target Europe in a fair and proper way. This is the first time we've tried to change something called the Constitution of a country on a very sensitive subject and very difficult to implement. Hard rehearsals are always the most dangerous. For some touching the Dayton Constitution and its opening is the opening of Pandora's box. For some others, who see far and far better, it's finally light at the end of the dark tunnel where we are, and we're falling for the creation of a commission that practically won't do anything. I don't mean that famous Churchill, do you, you know what this is about, but I think one thought of many who reason wisely has been used here. The commission does not decide to implement Sjedić and Finc's verdicts. This commission has only one other task, to take the first step, and to begin this painful situation as it is imagined, and that means, in the end, that most painful move, which I have told you about, finally and definitely, the opening of the Dayton Constitution and its change. 14 Remember that the two basic segments here depend and must be found, and these are the most important segments for each country, especially the one based on parliamentary democracy, as I hope, and this one of ours – so the Constitution and the Electoral Law. These two most sensitive segments of a single state here must suffer painful touching and painful corrections that have not been entered into them. We need to do this, that hot potato got us into this term and don't fall for this trial. Don't forget, people who expect such moves from us don't just watch us anymore, sometimes look at us under a microscope, my lords. I was only in the EU once, in Brussels, what I heard did not like at all, and I do not envy those who continue to go there after me. They still think of us as... children. It's a long way from colleges and colleges that mean growing up. They think we're not up to it yet. Please stop this discussion and let us grow up, form this committee and show that we are not who some want us to be, and I say they're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6549	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6550	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to be one of these last speakers today, I've moved the discussion several times, but it seems I haven't succeeded in it, but well, there's nothing we can do to change that. However, at this point, I will say what I think about this situation in which the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is currently in place. All the remarks my colleagues spoke of regarding this conclusion, adopted by the House of Peoples, and in my opinion, stand. And it would be best if the Joint College agreed on the text of this conclusion, went to both homes, but it obviously didn't happen, and now we're in this situation where we are. And now we are in a position to look for some solution that will also mean the formation of this group, but also the removal of these shortcomings that my colleagues have recorded when it comes to the conclusion of the House of Peoples, related to the establishment of this Interim Joint Commission. It is true that there are several issues here. The issue, therefore, is the issue of Article 3(2), which is a way of deciding which is more rigorous than what the BiH Constitution says when it comes to making amendments to the BiH Constitution. Next issue of deadlines that are unrealistic: 30.11.2011 to prepare the amendments to the BiH Constitution, and 31.12. to prepare the amendments to the BiH Election Law. We all know it's unreal deadlines. However, we have what we have today, and I want the House of Representatives to act responsibly against this situation today, and I think that it will only perform responsibly in that case if it tries to, without further conflict and conflict with the House of Peoples, try to adopt the text of this decision, so that the Interresor Working Group will continue to work, and perhaps some conclusions that will apply to this home, and perhaps also support the House of Peoples. What exactly does this mean I said? The worst message, in my opinion, for the Council of Europe at this point would be that now two homes in the Parliamentary Assembly are confronting each other, not about the amendments but about the commission, or working group, which should be prepared for amendments that we will just decide on in the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm not that kind of message we're sending. 15 Last time, the BiH Council of Ministers formed an Interresor Working Group and said nothing about how to decide in its conclusion. But the Interresor Working Group adopted the Rules of Procedure at its meeting and said that the Interresor Working Group generally decides by consensus, so this is the group that was supposed to prepare the amendments last time, and in its position (2) says, 'In case the consensus is not reached, the Interressor Working Group of Decisions shall make two-thirds of the members present, in which at least three votes each of the three constituent peoples must be held.' That is what the Rules of Procedure says about the work of the Interresor Working Group from the last call. And when it comes to quorum, the quorum for the work of that group, which is actually the two most controversial issues, makes nine members, of which three of each constitutive people. Representatives of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes and representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers must be represented in the quorum. The right to tell you, I don't mind that this conclusion of the House of Peoples is a consensus, because without consensus, it is not possible to make constitutional reform in BiH, but I fear the abuse of this provision. This provision is not a problem if we properly comply with that provision, I fear abuse, and abuse is possible. I don't want to accuse anyone, but theoretically, when a legal norm is made, there are also theoretical possibilities for some abuses. A political party may appear who has one representative and says - I disagree and that the process is then blocked. In that situation, this provision of consensus would not make sense, as this would be much more stringent and much more difficult than is prescribed by the Constitution of BiH when it comes to the adoption of amendments to the Constitution, or the amendment of the BiH Constitution. That's why I think we should all think this through, if we want to, so we should be well-intentioned and, if we want, we should all go after this verdict to finally be realised, that BiH Parliament adopts the amendments. I propose that we adopt this conclusion in the text adopted by the House of Peoples, not to change anything, just add the names of representatives of political parties so that the commission can begin work tomorrow. And now watch out, this is a process. The Commission begins work, works Parliament and works both at home, and this is Parliament's body. There's a problem in the work of this commission. Parliament can be informed of this. Show up, I don't think there's anyone in this room, and not even in the House of Peoples, who would say tomorrow, yes, it's an abuse, if at the beginning of this Interresor Working Group a representative of a political party who says - I don't agree that the Rules of Procedure will be adopted, I don't want to choose leadership, I won't do anything. I think that's when the whole Parliament would say - so it can't be done, one man can't block it. I hope it doesn't happen, but if it does, then we already have a group that works, we don't wait, and we have a Parliament that needs to shut it down. It's a completely different position in relation to the position of us returning things to the very beginning today and opening a dialogue with the House of Peoples. That's one thing. I think the way out of this situation is for us to adopt this thing with these names today and that we as the House, because we are committed to realising this verdict, adopt one of our working conclusions, ours, unrelated to the House of Peoples. We can also give it to the House of Peoples to adopt it. I don't think that thing should be controversial between us here, or two conclusions. Be careful, folks, we are discussing here, Mr Belkić spoke, with the right, that discrimination was contained in the conclusion. If we're going to split the decision, or if we're going to talk about it in detail (I apologize to Belkić, sir, so I made a mistake, so it doesn't split the hair), if we're going to tell the truth, then the man is right. That's the way it is. I think that, for example, a representative of the Council of National Minorities in BiH should be involved in this group. And if he's not already in this decision, then let's say, in our conclusion, that 16 calls him to the meetings of this Interim Joint Commission, let the man be present. He won't decide, but he'll be present, he'll be able to suggest. That's why I suggest, again, that we adopt this conclusion as adopted by the House of Peoples, that this committee take action and follow this process. We are therefore here, without us, without this home, without this hall,... and those worse blue, and in two sessions (one House of Representatives, another House of Nations), two-thirds majority in this home and the majority in each club in the House of People – there are no amendments to the Constitution of BiH, because we know that this is coming, and then we adopt another conclusion, which reads: 'After the adoption of the Conclusion, so this, on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH, the House of Representatives adopts and the following conclusion (this is our internal working conclusion): 1. If the amendments to the BiH Constitution are not reached by a consensus of all members of the Interim Joint Commission, so the one we form, but an agreement is reached, the Constitution of BiH prescribed, the majority necessary for the adoption of the amendments to the BiH Constitution, such a proposal will be sent to parliamentary procedure through the mandated promoter, and under 2. We suggest to the Interim Joint Commission that it invites or involve, however you wish, representatives of the National Minority Council in BiH at its meetings." In this way we would get a group and a conclusion in the same text as the text of the House of Peoples and the group would start working. On the other hand, through this conclusion, they would show their commitment, as we all say today, and how we think he spoke to the House of Nations, and we could get out of this situation. I ask you to think carefully, that we decide on these things by consensus here at the House of Representatives today, because it will be the only clear signal and message to the Council of Europe, and the EU, and to all those who follow us that we are seriously on the way to realising this verdict. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6551	The word is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6552	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think this debate should end, and here I am in the end. The colleagues said a lot about this, and I think the intentions of the delegates, i.e. the envoys in the House of Peoples, were quite clear and good, and they certainly stemmed from the political agreement of representatives or presidents of political parties who have the largest number of MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Since the agreement has also been reached that the Interim Joint Commission of both homes is being attended by representatives of all political parties taking part in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and so is the space left in this article, and I think it should have been added only: the Interim Commission is appointed from political parties. He gave the people home from two political parties, meaning HDZ BiH and SNSD, and through this House of Representatives should all other political parties. And I don't think there's any misunderstanding, no doubt about it. ... All these further articles would fully agree with this discussion by Mr. Džaferović, he took away part of the discussion, here and clearly states what the obligations of the Interim Commission are. 17 We can call it one way or another, but ultimately everything will pass through this parliamentary procedure. Of course, at that first constitutive session, this Interim Joint Committee should also be adopted by the Rules of Procedure on Labour, and by consensus. And in the Rules of Procedure on Labour they can, may they point out that they do not have all the other things within that of their work, if they adopt 'Worker', to bring consensus, as it says here in this conclusion of the House of Peoples. Therefore, my proposal to adopt this conclusion with, behold, these discussions show that there are certain shortcomings, but to adopt it as a whole as it stands, that we from here from the House of Representatives, You, Mr. Chairman, are reading the other representatives, or on proposals from clubs like SDA, SDS – your representative, means everyone else to fill in and declare this and to end this session today. And we'll see how this commission works. If there is a problem, here is the conclusion that we can consider what counterpart Džaferović suggested, is whether to adopt, which would not have hit this conclusion, so that we would not have to re-acquire both home and home. Here, that's my suggestion to adopt this and end this debate today.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6553	The replica has Mr. Kalabić Drago. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6554	Here, very briefly, since counterpart Jurišić reiterated his support for this conclusion, the proposal for Mr Džaferović's conclusion. It is not disputed by our support for this conclusion, but we do not think that at this point it is necessary to vote on it because it is a widely accepted conclusion that is understood. So he's undeniable. I am afraid that a little message to this committee would be demoting in terms of -- if you don't, I don't know, we have here, it's possible, at this point each parliamentary group, an individual MP, when it announces that it has parliamentary support for changes to the Constitution, it can do so at this point. It's an open story, a famous story and it's undeniable. I understand Mr. Džaferović's motives and we accept that, but if we've already set ourselves up for this other approach and swallowed a frog, today we've swallowed a big frog, then let it be so, let that decision be ours pure, that it goes in that direction to give that commission to do what we're all for, have all the political parties, whoever they're supposed to co-operate with have our general support to co-operate with them, to hold talks, consultations, everything else. So there is, if we go with that approach, one broad support to that commission. I'm afraid this is how we're gonna send a parallel message, you know if you don't, I don't know, do it here, and we know there's that possibility, and it's our public call every moment that comes into this situation to make it public and that we're going to do it. So I'm saying, if we're already going, especially so that if we didn't have to worry about causing a reaction to the House of Nations, and we'd have the right to challenge it, and I said today what I think about it, that this proposal doesn't open up some kind of space with them that we're leaving some kind of dilemma, that here we are, too, and that's why I'm saying that our support isn't controversial, but we don't think at this point we need to send such a parallel message.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6555	The word has Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6556	Thank you, Chairman. 18 Ladies and gentlemen, he drinks only one suggestion and two findings, yes, whatever. The proposal, Mr. Chairman, is given that I have seen a stenogram of the House of Peoples and, of course, I, like everyone else, welcome this decision, especially any decision taken unanimously. And the president of the Party of Democratic Progress, among other things, has proposed Vesna Spremo for a member of this commission. And I am taking the opportunity to take this proposal formally into account: I propose Vesna Spremo for a member of this committee, and since it is not possible to implement it differently, this is the way. Two more comments. First comment, I think this conclusion by my colleague Džaferović is something that doesn't hurt, and if it doesn't hurt then there's no reason not to be supported. I think that we at the SDS MPs' club can discuss this issue further, but as briefly as I could consult here, there's no reason not to support this conclusion that's no harm at all. Well, even though he's finding something that's meant to be, he doesn't mind. And what bothers me as an MP is this way of treating the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly, first of all, towards me as a MP who did not disturb the session's order and I'm not sure if he told me by article 73 that he was denying me the right to speak. So this kind of...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6557	Here, again, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6558	Okay, I'm gonna sit down, and I'm gonna call in a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6559	Yeah. Do you want me to tell you right now, don't even sit down, where you're breaking?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6560	Don't, don't right now, don't interrupt me, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6561	Yes, you've called for a discussion, so you're discussing a subject that's on the agenda, and you're using the business opportunity set out in Article 70. (debate on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and the correction of the quotations). And I remind you of article 71 that the chairman is obliged when the MP steps down from the agenda to warn him and everything related to Article 73(1) and (2). And, Mr. Bojić, when you're constantly referring to the Rules of Procedure, try to respect it first.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6562	I'd like to thank you, if I can keep talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6563	No microphone 19 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6564	Of course, I am discussing the subject of the debate, and I expected first of all that the chairman of this House will make additional efforts, and will ensure the unanimity of support and parliamentary parties and MPs in relation to the issue in question. And I think I'm talking about the issue, and I expected your far greater engagement on this issue. Probably the intolerance that the chairman of the House of Nations, therefore, unanimously with all political parties managed to reach this decision, is something that bothers you. And so my discussion is absolutely about the agenda point, and you can't consult with these two deputies of yours right now to deny me the word, eventually get me off the table, are they gone? You will therefore not have this possibility in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And it's obvious that the biggest part of it, let me say, is the problems in preparing this session, and what he did about the agenda point, he made the chair here. It's all about the agenda point. There'd be a lot less discussion. So if he had made an effort to chair the conclusion made by Mr. Džaferović, who does neither help nor get away, perhaps could be the solution to this problem. So the time we spent here, first of all, is at the expense of the chairman who didn't put any effort into it, on the contrary, even complicated the situation so as not to make this kind of decision. I think we understand each other absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-10-0.u6565	I find that MP Borislav Bojić has stepped away from the agenda, I am taking a 60-minute break, and he has specifically stepped down to what my position has been like, and I have not even discussed it yet. It's a 60-minute break, and in 30 minutes we're calling an extended college. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the work of the 11th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We held a session of the Expansive College and I will now inform you of what we agreed on at the Expansive College. The extended college agreed, in terms of the continuation and completion of our session today, that we should make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the execution of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH. It is also agreed that MPs from the House of Representatives: Saša Magazinović, SDP BiH; Šefik Džaferović, SDA; Borislav Bojić, SDS; Ismeta Dervoz, SBB BiH; Beriz Belkić, Party for BiH; Božo Ljubić, HDZ 1990; Zvonko Jurišić, HSP BiH; Mladen Lijanović Ivanković, People's Party working for the better; Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Spremo, PDP; Petar Kunić, DNS, and Nermin Purić, DNZ BiH. About what the position of clubs and MPs will be when they vote, but we agreed to bring this session to an end in this way. In addition, we agreed that, in addition to 20, we will also vote on two of the conclusions proposed by counterpart Šefik Džaferović. With this we planned that as far as parties are concerned, that is, clubs represented in the Expansive College to conclude the debate, but again I wonder if there is any need for discussions, etc. There isn't. By agreement, or unanimously adopted conclusion on this extended college, we give a 15-minute break and then we vote. [[PAUZA]]
