ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and all other officials, respected media representatives, I welcome you and open a second session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I thank you for your media attention. ... The service informed me, and also by flight inspection and by electronic records, I can conclude that 15 delegates attend this session and that all the clubs of the people are present in full composition. There are no justified absences, so we can determine that the conditions are met for the quorum. For the 2nd session, you've got in the material, it's proposed the following 1. The adoption of the minutes from the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2. Selection of members of the Permanent Committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (a) Constitutional Legal Commission, (b) Commission for Finance and Budget, (c) Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications; 3. The selection of members of the joint committees from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (a) Joint Commission on Defence and Security, (b) Joint Committee on the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, (c) Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, (d) Joint Committee on European Integration, (e) Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, (f) Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, which is related to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to inform you that this agenda has been agreed by the College of the House of Nations and delivered to you. I'm opening a discussion on the proposed agenda. 2 Please sign up in order of discussion. Here you go. By using the electronic logbook, which we checked before the start of this session, I can conclude that there are no logs registered for the agenda, nor are there any proposals for changes and additions to the agenda. In accordance with Article 60 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the agenda was adopted and it was not voted upon. We're moving on to the first Taco Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the constitutional session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u54	...colleges, the chairman. I will be against the composition of this commission for one reason only. Representatives of the Bosniak and Croatian people in this Commission for Intelligence Control also have a potential opposition and potential power in any combination. From the order of the Serbian people, we have only the potential power of objectively Serbian delegates to give up the right to the chairman of this commission, ĉime, the entire intelligence sector is left to representatives of the Croatian people, or the Bosniak people, because the chairman of the commission must be of the order of the opposition. I think it's a decision that's harmful to the Serbian people and that's why I'm going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u55	I thank Mr Ivanic. Is anyone else picking up for re-up? Thank you. If there are no more applications for discussion, I find that the debate on this agenda has been concluded, so I invite you to make a statement on the motion for a decision that you have received and which has been proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u56	Ask who's "against."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u57	After one round of voting, we can, I think, commission can do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u58	Who's "for," who's "against," who's "abstained." 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-06-29-0.u59	Okay. Who's "against"? Who's "sustained"? Thank you. I find that with 14 votes 'yes', one 'against' vote and no'restricted' vote, this decision has been adopted and the conditions are met for the general and entity majority. This period ended the agenda of today's session, the constitutive session of the permanent committees of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And at the end of this session, I would like to inform you, as you were announced in the invitation, that the constitutional sessions of the committee will be held at this table, on schedule: at 12.30 a.m., the Commission for Finance, at 12.45 a Constitutional Commission and at 13.00 a.m. Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. Thank you for attending this session. I'm locking this session down. Thank you. The sitting is closed at 11.30 p.m.
