ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-31-0.u976	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 12 delegates present at the session, three from Bosniak, five from Croatian and four from the Serb people. Mrs Sulejman Tihić, Mladen Ivanić and Hasan Bećirović are not able to attend this session for justified reasons. For the 10th session of the House of Nations, I suggest the following 1. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2011 (as submitted by the Presidency of BiH, Mr Željko Komšić, 30.12.2011) This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for word, for any changes and additions? There are no reports. I am concluding the debate on the agenda, and given that there is no change and addition, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're moving on to the only point of this afternoon's Ad session. 1. Proposal for a Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2011 (delivered by BiH Presidency Chairman Željko Komšić, 30.12.2011)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-31-0.u979	Thank you very much. Hello to you, Mr. President, and to your colleagues. Just one, maybe I didn't get it right. Shall we plead on this budget? We have adopted the conclusions of the House of Representatives in the same text, whether it is believed that this budget was then adopted or we have to make a special decision and, I don't know, we may have crossed this indication of your proposed House conclusions a little too quickly. Well, as long as we get it on paper, I'd like to pray that we might go back to at least a little debate about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-31-0.u980	So, of course, I'm obliged to give an explanation since this was also a business intervention, at least it had that kind of character. We've been making statements about an act that's been sent to us by the House of Representatives in the follow-up procedure. This act applies directly to those budgetary issues and to the way it relates as described in the conclusions of the House of Representatives. In order for us to declare the content of the budget itself, we 4 would have to have the text of this budget, forwarded from the House of Representatives. Accordingly, the next procedure was established with the decisions of the House of Representatives. It reads: "The House of Representatives has given the principle of the framework in which the budget is determined for 2011 by the Presidency, and at the level of implementation for 2011 of the budget and budget commitments, while the Bureau will make a final decision on what all the items that enter into such a text of the budget after its implementation are made, and will then, after that, to the College of the House of Representatives, forward the document to the "Official Messenger of BiH" in order to be published in the form of the Law on... The budget of the institutions and international obligations of BiH." That is why today all this is being debated in the spirit in which we are discussing it. And that's exactly why these conclusions we've suggested are related to this matter, the way they refer to it. And I understand, Mr. Merdžo, that it's an unusual situation and I'm asking you not to ask me if it's in line with this or that. If you've received the text of the proposed conclusions, I'd like to invite you now to move to a plea. Please initiate the plea. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 12 delegates voted (from Federation eight, from Serbian Four). Since there is a general and entity majority, I find that the conclusions proposed at today's House of Peoples session, agreed in the College of this composition, have been adopted. I'd very much like to now in some more emotional spirit to congratulate you on New Year's Eve, but I do know that all of this probably affected your obligations as well. Anyway, I hope we get better in 2012 than we did in 2011. Cheers! The seat is closed at 11.23.
