ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6568	Dear guests, I am opening the 12th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to the information service, 30 MPs are present. The absence was justified by MP Mirza Kušljugić. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I want to introduce you to the agenda that we have downloaded: - Tačka 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH, the Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, as the Constitutional Commission submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for the submission of the Report on the Bill's Proposal. The House College set 11 November 2011 as the deadline. - Point 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, as the Constitutional Commission submitted a request for an extension of the deadline for submitting the Report on the Bill's Proposal. The House College set 11 November 2011 as the deadline. - Point 13. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, promoters: MEPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, as the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics has delivered a notice stating that it has not considered the Proposal for a Law, since the Constitutional Commission has not delivered Opinions on the Proposal of the Law to the Peoples, and will proceed with the procedure after receiving the opinion, in accordance with Rule 102(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. - Tačka 14. The Joint Commission's report on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Single Parent Number, as the Joint Commission has both at home to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act delivered a notice on the non-maintainment of the first session due to the lack of quorum. 2 We have completed point 9. (sometimes point 11.) Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities, the Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, which is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. MP Šefik Džaferović has applied for a debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6569	Mr. Chairman, I have no objections to the agenda, I have no additions, no amendments, I just need to give clarification as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, because I think they are right colleagues who have so far insisted that the commissions do their job until the House session, so that the agenda points are not removed from the session agenda, because the commission has not done their job. It is true that in the question and the Law on the ID card and the Law on residence and residence, i.e. the amendments to those laws, that the Constitutional Commission has requested the extension of deadlines, but that is only the consequence of something other than what the Constitutional Commission has done. We also had a quorum and we discussed these laws and we asked for the Council of Ministers of BiH to be shown about amendments to the Law on the ID card, because it was about serious amendments, where the Council of Ministers needs to be shown, and this was accepted by the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission. And when it comes to residence law, changes are proposed which the public debate has indicated are certain problems and the results of the public debate have been delivered to the Council of Ministers to review this once more and see if amendments to these laws are possible and possible. For these reasons, therefore, the Constitutional Commission was forced to address Koelgi doma and to request an extension of the deadline. I want you to know this, but that you know the other colleagues and that they know the public, so it's not because of the quorum or because of the unhappiness. So we had a quorum and we worked, this is just a search for solutions. What kind of solutions will be, we'll see. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6570	I thank Mr. Džaferović for further reasons when it comes to certain points of the agenda. I find that there are no more applications for a debate on the agenda and I find that the 12th session of the House has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 10th and 11th meetings of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Issues (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament Questions; 3 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-2111 of 26.9.2011; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-2011 of 26.9.2011; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-1911 of 26.9.2011; 6. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal, Law No 01,02-02-9-6510, of 2.12.2010. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5910, of 19.10.2010, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 8. Proposal for a law on a state aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a proposal by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1711, of 8.9.2011. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-1-1511, of 2.9.2011, with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH; 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-1811, of 8.9.2011. (first reading); 11. Report on activities on the project "Autoput at Corridor 5c" and the plan of the next activities, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-29-86011, of 29.7.2011; 12. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No. 1 of the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads "It is proposed that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, in addition to regular reports, informs the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs on the problems encountered in the implementation of the objectives set out in the Roadmap and the implementation of the annual report on improving the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to respond urgently to their removal"; 13. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 2 of the Opinion of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission on the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads as 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, is proposed to make a comprehensive analysis of the positive and negative effects of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union with concrete proposals for measures and activities, applicants and deadlines, with the possibility of finding a market in the transitional period, from 1.1.2013, where products of plant and animal origin could be placed, with the aim to mitigate the negative consequences for bh. production to have the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia; 4 14. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 3 of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission on the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads 'The House of Representatives is proposing to the Council of Ministers to strengthen capacities in the BiH Plant Health Authority, the BiH Food Safety Agency and the BiH Veterinary Office, in order to respond to market requirements, especially with regard to the recognition of food control certificates'; 15. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 4 of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs on the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads 'It is proposed to the House of Representatives to assign the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce to prepare an analysis of the negative effects by bh. companies, due to customs duties imposed by Kosovo on products imported from our country'; 16. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on an effort to reach agreement on the 2010 proposal by Mr Mladen Ivanković Lijanović to discuss the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads 'The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of delivering deadlines for implementing policy measures in agriculture, nutrition and rural development in the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina'; 17. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on receiving conclusions from the Joint Commission's opinion on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Intelligence and Security Agency for the discussion of the BiH Ministry of Security report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the area of the protection of classified information in 2010 which reads 1. As the Commission considered the Annual Report of the Ministry of Security of BiH on operational and technical surveillance in the field of security of classified data in 2010, it identified the problem of the lack of adequate systematisation of jobs within the State Security Authority (DSO). The systematisation must reflect the relevant NATO directives and decisions of the Council of Europe, as well as respect the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Secret Information in BiH. 2. The Commission has observed a lack of adequate degree of independence in the work of the DSO, which is needed in accordance with the practices and decisions of NATO and the EU, which will be aimed at ensuring appropriate inspection supervision by the DSO. 3. The Commission saw a lack of a number of rules that were fully in line with NATO and EU decisions and guidelines in the field of protection and exchange of classified information between BiH, on the one hand, and NATO and the EU, on the other. The lack of proper regulations leads to uncertainty and difficulties in implementing the BiH Code on the Protection of Secret Information and Control over the application of it, as well as a stalemate in meeting the conditions for bringing BiH closer to EU and NATO membership. 4. The Commission has also identified problems that arise as a result of the failure to establish appropriate specialised courier services and non-unified practices in the work of different national authorities, as regards the handling of classified information and their exchange or delivery. 5. The Commission has identified deficiencies in terms of risk assessment and threats, particularly in relation to future certified sub-registries, which will exchange data with 5 DSOs or each other. There have also been shortcomings in the uniform approach and compliance with provisions on the physical and information protection of data and locations, particularly in sub-registries, as well as inadequate compliance with legal provisions in terms of the definition of security areas, reserve locations, procedures for the destruction of classified data and other security procedures. Six. The Commission is expressing its support to the State Security Authority in the follow-up of its activities, and supports the conclusion of the BiH Security Minister within the Report, which says that implementation of the Security of Secret Data Act and the NATO and EU Directive in this area contributes significantly to improving the overall security situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Seven. By the end of the year, the Commission will hold at least one thematic session to which representatives of those institutions will be invited to submit a report on the implementation of these conclusions, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV4 of the BiH Constitution, Article 77. The Act on the Protection of Secret Data of BiH, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as follows by Article 34 (1) of Article 34(1)(b), (c) and (d), Article 36, Article 41(1), Article 49(2) and Article 62(2), and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, as follows by Article 31(1), Article 37, Article 39(1), Article 47(2), Article 55(2), and Article 68(1). 8. On the basis of Article 76(2) of the Act on the Protection of Secret Information of BiH, the Commission has adopted, as competent, the annual report by the Ministry of Security of BiH on operational and technical surveillance in the field of the protection of classified data in 2010. year.' 18. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Commission on the surveillance of the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the discussion of the BiH Ministry of Security Report on operational and technical surveillance in the field of secret data protection in 2010 which reads 'We call on all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all the Ministry of Security of BiH, the Ministry of Defence of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, to respect as soon as possible and without further delay the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Secret Information of BiH and to remove the deficiencies identified during the surveillance activities carried out by the National Security Authority and the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Security Agency of BiH." 19. A statement on MPs' initiative Šefikto Džaferović in the work plan of the House of Representatives that every month, Bosnia and Herzegovina will analyse the state of fulfilment of its commitments on its European, Euro-Atlantic and Security Road", No 01-50-19-63611, of 23.6.2011, 20. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Professional Commission of the DTT Forum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, No 01,02-29-92811 of 7.9.2011; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the mutual protection and exchange of classified information; 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the European Public Law Organisation (EPLO); 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the State Programme (Part I) for 2010 under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 6 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state of Kuwait on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes; 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Funding Agreement (additional financing for the Health Sector Strengthening Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Serbia under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2007; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the financial agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Montenegro under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2007; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the State Programme (II). Part) for 2008 in accordance with the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 29. Granting approval for ratification of Amendment No 1 to the Funding Agreement (since 27.2.2006) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and KfW Frankfurt in Maine, for the establishment of the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 2 to the Fund's Finance and Management Agreement signed on 21.7.2000, which was supplemented by the Additional Agreement on Fund financing and management signed in 30.7.2004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and KfW Frankfurt on May – Credit Guarantee Fund; 31. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro on Veterinary Cooperation; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe; 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative We are now moving to the first item of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 10th and 11th sessions
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6574	Mr. Chairman, I have received a reply from Minister Bariša Čolak, and with that answer I am fully pleased. The second response had something to do with the BiH Nuclear Security Agency, and I am pleased with that answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6575	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6576	Here I welcome everyone present. I'll try in the shortest, so the first question was such a natural question that the answer should have been much faster than it happened, so I got it after three months and, as usual, it's unnecessarily spread. So it repeats the question, explains what the budget is, repeats the description of the procedure behind us, etc. I simply asked: What are the Presidency and the Council of Ministers doing to resolve the situation that occurred after BiH's budget was not adopted this year? As for the answer, I am neither satisfied nor dissatisfied, these are facts and it is evident that on two occasions something has been tried, so some talks were held in June or July. And what is important, it has been suggested that in July, 13.7 and 29.7 respectively, a preliminary agreement has been reached on a proposal that could receive support in this parliament. So it was in July and since then nothing but what's heard in the media is constantly talking about the budget. So, the situation is that I want to point out the following. So it's obvious that election winners... can't agree on anything when it comes to the state, so neither does the state budget. I don't know if they're aware that it's going to happen the first time that the BiH state is on temporary funding all year. I don't know if they're aware, if that happens, that the 2012 budget will be very difficult to bring. There will be a series of formal procedural problems. And I don't know if they remember that those who claimed that there was anything I couldn't agree on brought the 2010 budget in December 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6577	The word has Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6578	The Honorable Chairman, here I am getting some kind of scrawny answers, half-way, to my one or two questions. She's getting a little attached, here, to this matter of Mr. Belkić. It is true that we do not have a budget, but these two answers say that we have spent the adopted budget of the joint institutions of BiH and the question is whether we should ever bring it again. So... here's my answer, so for the first time I've seen the Council of Ministers buying space for their needs along with the Official Messenger, without resolving the legal status of the Official Messenger. But obviously, what I said last time, when it comes to financial transactions, that in the Council of Ministers there is a brotherhood and unity and that there is no value for all other things that are allegedly politically publicly declared, because there is clearly, here we have, no amount, only one fact that the price of a square meter was 2,650 euros – can BiH institutions submit it? - and I've been left to take the digitron to count. _________(?) Is it a stamp or a euro? Eura. So this included ministers who were full of the state's mouth and protection of state interests and so on. 9 In the second part of the question is also needed, the answer is also needed digitron. The answer is only one sentence where it is said that the price of the property in Mostar was 3,890 KM, but without the tax included. It's probably a little bit of a fear of numbers, so when you turn on the tax then you get a big number, so try to make it look a little different. Whoever wants to, of course, can count on himself this fast, that's about 20 million. Of course there are a lot of additional answers to these two questions I'm going to ask today. The information I have from the Council of Ministers speaks very differently. It is very interesting that the finance ministry did not participate in the answers, although all of this was carried out by the finance ministry and if this parliament has given the finance ministry orders to carry out certain things. I will ask, of course, for additional answers today to see if they match the information that we have and I think the only solution is that at one of the next sessions we form an investigative committee that will determine, before any budget story, which will first explain to the citizens of BiH how the previous budget was spent, because those of us who have to vote for the new budget are asking people how we spent this money. Here's one of the things and the way we did it. I think a fair and correct investigative committee of this Parliament can answer many questions that are not here, so there are no answers here. I think that we simply and easily, with the help of some people, can come up with those answers and we will propose it at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6580	Thank you. We continue to comment on the answers received. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6581	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected present, I have received answers to three questions. The first answer I received was from the Ministry of Defence, which refers to the invalid helicopters and the illegal punishment of Colonel Predrag Plančić and Ensign Mrđa, and the exercise of the right to the flight allowance of Dr Kockar Jelisavete. I must remind you that I am very unhappy with the way the Ministry did this, but that's not enough. Obviously, the ministry is not satisfied, as in the meantime, I received this memo yesterday, saying that, meanwhile, the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces has informed the Ministry of Defence that it has formed an expert commission headed by Brig-Gen Mirko Tepšić, who will further examine the facts mentioned in our question. So, I got the answer... The 3.10th is recorded here, and then here's the 24th 10th I got that's not really an answer but to wait, because there's going to be some more new elements. So, indeed, one indifference with which the Ministry of Defence refers to the answers to parliamentary questions. The second question is related to the DNA lab: "When will the Minister of Security finally resolve the status of donated DNA equipment and thus enable the establishment of a fourth laboratory within the Agency for Forensic Studies and Engineering?" So here the minister is clear that there is never a 10 intention to move this lab from the Federal Police Department to the Agency in general, a newly established police agency, so you should see. The Council of Ministers should decide what to do with the Agency in the future. And the third question I'm happy with, but not the results, is about renting a business space. The General Secretariat has sent such a very extensive contract and I think this is good for all MPs to see that at this point in BiH, the 26 million stands out for space. When a man looks at it, it's like we didn't even get this building of friendship that's been moved in and we don't have anything new, so it's over, the situation from the previous period when the building wasn't moved in. What is startling is that the area per employee in BiH institutions is moving: of 6 - 12 m2 is 21% of institutions, of 13 - 18 m2 39% of institutions, of 19 - 30 m2 32 institutions and, imagine, over 30 m2 per employee 8%. So this says that rationalization is urgently needed and that the Council of Ministers must do something to seduce order in this area. But anyway, the material I got was a good indication that we know what we need to do in this area. Thank you to those who did.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6582	The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6583	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to remind you that I have asked a question in terms of accurate and precise information on the legal aspects of the arrest and detention of General Jovan Divjak in Austria. I particularly apostrophe of activities at the time carried out by the NGO, information that has been placed in the media and silence of institutions with the exception of the obvious at the very beginning from the position of the profession, which has also caused speculation and speculation. I got, unlike some other colleagues, a much shorter answer than I expected, of course not expecting much more from the resolution ministry that made the content of this response, as much as from the other institutions involved. And in that sense, I want to express my dissatisfaction with the content of this response, and I expect that the answer, including other institutions involved, will react in the sense of complete information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6584	The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6585	Let me welcome everyone present. The answer from the BiH Chamber of Commerce – I am pleased with that answer. At the 9th session of the House of Representatives, I asked a question, a representative question, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Ministry of Health. But the Federal Ministry didn't answer me, I expect an answer, although I think it'll be about the same as these. 11 I am partially satisfied with the RS Health Ministry's response and the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. In principle, my question was about the drugs on the essential list where I asked to be answered, "Are there any large packages and why do we not distribute these medicines in large packages and what would be the savings?" The RS Health Ministry's response was that the use of medicines in large packs, meaning 1,000 tablets and more, is possible exclusively in stationary health institutions. There's no reason not to be in pharmacies, especially if we know that these are the funds of the Health Insurance Institute, it means our funds. I don't think this is an answer enough. And as for the Drug Agency, they wrote me that my thinking is right. If there were no cases of registered drugs in large packages, neither is the BiH Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices able to register them, since there are no apps. Like there's no apps and there's no need. And they support my right thinking. I mean, it's a little bit to me to say, at the very least, inconclusive. I expect them to help. They have experts. Help and suggestion how we're going to realize this thinking. So, is it necessary to amend the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices or other acts, which I think is strictly necessary? And I thought it would be a huge, huge savings to the health insurance institutions to make this happen. So I'm going to stay here and expect concrete answers and help in how we realize this opinion, according to the Medicines Agency, which is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6586	The word has Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6587	Ladies and gentlemen, so I have received answers to some questions, but I have not received any answers, so since I referred the question to the 3rd session, which was, to remind you, on 22.06/11, the Council of Ministers did not deign to give any kind of information to this high house, which, let me remind you, on June 18th 2008 at the conclusion of this house, the Council of Ministers of BiH was to make a decision on the establishment of a committee on the death of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo in the period of 92-95. I asked for an answer: "What decisions, conclusions and the like have been made by the Council of Ministers of BiH regarding the realization of the House of Representatives' conclusion?" So this kind of demeaning of this high house is unseen. I want to protest and, of course, appeal and direct an additional emergency to give me an answer to my question. And even though the deadlines are 30 days, here are some colleagues complaining, and they get answers after 40 days, here I haven't got an answer will be nearly half a year. So that would be my comment on the answer I've received and what I haven't received yet, and I sincerely hope to get an answer. It is not so important that I, as an MP, will get an answer, it is important that this high house gets an answer to this important question from the Council of Ministers, which was responsible for the implementation of this House of Representatives decision in this term. 12 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6588	The word is from Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6589	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased with the part of the answer I have received. So I got an answer for 43 institutions. I remind you that I asked the question at the 9th session, which was 8.9/11. And since I see that there are colleagues waiting for a longer answer, I can't be dissatisfied, but I would ask that the rest of the institutions be sought and speeded up to get that answer to finally comment on the overall answer. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6590	Thank you. The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received an answer to my parliamentary question: "What is planned to do to improve business conditions in BiH's economy?" I'm satisfied with this answer. True, he came with a little more delays, but I am particularly pleased and I expect that the strategy announced will come to this parliament and in particular that a public debate will be organised in which employers, the Association of Employers, will be able to participate and make useful proposals that are important and I believe that the development of BiH is one of the key issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6592	There is also a comment on the answers received by Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6593	Now, respect, respected chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We are at this point in the agenda - Comments on the answers received - means the questions asked by the MPs at the previous meetings of the BiH Parliament. Of course, MPs who have received questions today have reported, some of them, whether they are satisfied with these answers or not. Reading and analysing some of these answers to these questions, I, as an agent after such answers, am very concerned about BiH. I must say that often in my own statements, I use perhaps the words that RS MPs are against BiH, but today I saw that they are the biggest protectors of 13 BiH and asking such questions as counterpart Dušanka Majkić. When we got these answers, there was destruction on the scene, the destruction of BiH in all its segments. This kind of fee to pay for these kinds of institutions, which is different than that from that of the former system, she says, they're internal enemies, are they, because we shouldn't be afraid of some outsiders but internal ones. Today in BiH, BiH's opponents are on the scene, as they behave very arrogantly. It's an unprecedented pride on the scene when it comes to these squares.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6594	My friend Jurišić, I'm sorry. I just have to ask which answer do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6595	I've got the answer, so this question that's been asked specifically
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6596	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6597	when it comes to... surfaces, squares, employees, money that is paid for rentals for BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6598	So that's not the question you asked, it's the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6599	No, it's not a question, I still haven't gotten a question about those explosives where those grenades and those trombles went missing, right, we'll probably get one, huh? But I want to base these, you know what, I want, Mr. Chairman, maybe I'm a little bit, is, in an unusual way.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6600	Wait a minute. Mr. Jurišić, we're really in a weird situation. We have never had a situation for the MP to comment on the answers to some other MPs. I have no intention of having double arches, here's what I want to ask my colleagues what to do in a situation like this. In principle, you should comment on the answers to where you asked the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6601	Like this, I have a proposition here. I, based on these answers and comments, have a proposal for your chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6602	Well, you can do that as part of any new issues and initiatives. Let's finish this part of the comments on the answers received. Here, I'm really asking you. 14 Good. We still have a comment on the answer: Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6603	I would be happy to refer to this discussion by my colleague Jurišić and support my colleague Majkić in her fight, let me not call it different names, but here I will respect this item of the agenda, so I will do it on parliamentary issues. And now I just want to remind the Ministry of Communications and Transport of the question I asked at one of the previous sessions, so I hope that in the next period it will be reacted by him, which is much more important than to be provided with an answer, and I would also like to know what and how it reacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6604	Thank you. So we ended up with comments on the answers received. We now move on to: b) New parliamentary issues First for the word, Šefik Džaferović, answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6605	Still, I'm the fastest in reaction... Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the question is: 'What stage is the implementation of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act, in particular the provisions of Articles 27, 28, 29, 33 and 43 (3) and (4) of this law, which speak of the protection of abandoned and lost animals? Who is blocking the adoption of the Rules on the Identification of Domestic Animals in BiH, and the establishment of a central register, as the law also predicted, and how would animal abandonment begin, what is the primary cause of the problem? Article 43(3) of this Act provides that animal shelters must be established within one year from the date of entry into force of the law. The deadline has long expired, and images from the streets of BiH cities, especially in view of the problem with stray dogs, suggest that this job is not nearly completed. Why and who is responsible for this?' That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6606	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6607	I have three questions. I ask the first question to the Committee for the Conservation of the National Monuments of BiH. 15 The question is: 'By reason of your decision to declare the Churcinica mosque in Livna national monument, you have allowed instead of its reconstruction and reconstruction to build a completely new object, I am asking you, as a complete layman, the following common question: If you did not have documentation about the facility, as you have recently claimed, on the basis of which you have concluded that it is a national monument, especially given the previous expert opinions such as that of the Federal Minister of Spatial Planning and the Environment of Ramiz Mehmedagić of 4.12.2002, which found that there are no elements that this mosque could be treated as a national monument? And if you had the documentation, which it did, which clearly states in the decision itself and on the basis of it, why did you allow for the permanent removal of the national monument and the rise of something that had absolutely nothing to do with it? Or are you, of course, the Committee for the Conservation of National Monuments, in the function of protecting the national monumental treasure of BiH or in the function of meeting different stakeholders, even at the cost of the destruction of objects that you should protect?" I ask the BiH Council of Ministers another question: "What are the reasons for the absence of the executive supervision body provided for by the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH?" Finally, I ask the Federation of BiH's third question: 'Is the views of Minister Zukan Helez, who deny the existence of the camp in Bugojn during the war, and which are also established by the relevant judgments, an additional guarantee of the democratic, the Constitution and the law of sound action, both the ministry itself, which is headed by him and the Federation of BiH government which he is a member?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6608	The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6609	Thank you. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, and it was about an answer I was not satisfied with because I was informed that there was another commission working. So the first question is: "Are the Department of Defence and the Joint Staff familiar with the report, observed remarks and deficiencies on helicopter AG2603, which has been remounted in Ukraine? Note, here it is the most representative helicopter EMI 17 intended for the transport of VIP personalities and delegations, so it was carried by members of the Bureau, who was kept in the unit as correct and ready for the next flight assignments, in fact very serious deficiencies." The second question is, "Is the cover-up of the shortfall on the helicopter mentioned by the competent command, the direct endangerment of life and flight safety, will anyone be sanctioned for this?" Third: 16 'Is the sentence-exit solution taken out of force, hence the 21% reduction in salary for Ensign Duško Mrđa, since his complaint of a solution was made in the first-degree procedure as established, and did all the recommendations of the military commissioner in Act No 1/05/3-50-17-124/11 have been respected? What will the Ministry do on that basis?" Fourth: 'Is there a responsibility against the persons in the Armed Forces in BiH who were punished by Colonel Predrag Plančić's fine before the proceedings against Duško Grjda Mrđa? So he's got a pay cut as well." Fifth: 'It is known that the BiH Presidency's decision on the size and structure of the Armed Forces has made it clear
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6610	I apologize, just to invite all those present to really allow MPs to ask their questions in peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6611	... for the Armed Forces of BiH not to foresee the possession of fixed-wing aircraft, or aviation. Which is why the Ministry made and pushed the Council of Ministers' anti-zaconital decision on special bonuses on salaries, so-called. A flight allowance for professional military personnel at the Ministry of Defence, "Official Messenger", number 0209, and on which the Ministry has so far paid for the flight allowance when pilots are not deployed to suitable formation sites but are located in high positions, from the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff to the BiH Military Representation in Brussels." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6612	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6613	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I am asking a question that has already been raised in the last session of this House of Representatives and we have not received answers, but nothing has changed. So I'm asking again a question that's been raised a few times. In the middle of last year, it was known, which was widely reported by the media, under investigation by Mladen Božović, director of the Return Fund, and nine others. According to Act A86 of 25.3.2010, the BiH Prosecutor's Office shows that Mladen Božović, director of the BiH Return Fund, is currently under investigation by the prosecutor's office, and due to a reasonable suspicion of committing several crimes involving several persons against whom SIPA has filed nine criminal charges under official duty. For these reasons, the subject has been transferred to the Special Department for the fight against organised crime. The BiH Audit Office also gave its opinion on this. 17 On the other hand, Transparency International, with its act of 2.4.2010, number: 1143, warned the BiH Council of Ministers about the illegal actions of Božović, and the documentation in which the organisation came, and it is about valid evidence of the crimes of Božović. I therefore ask the question: 'How is it possible and by what laws is it that Mladen Božović continues to serve as Director of the Return Fund when the Law on the BiH State Service, article 58, states that the institution is immediately required to suspend a civil servant against whom orders to conduct an investigation for acts of abuse of office and corruption, what is the case with the said director? How does one such person and manager of such an important institution, who annually has tens of millions of marks and deals with the problem of one of the most sensitive categories of our society, still performs a given function and no one can, given the existence of so much legitimate evidence that you have been familiar with in good time? That is why I ask the Council of Ministers for a written answer to the question asked, but also to show the Agency for the fight against corruption." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6614	Thank you. The word has an MP, Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question has gotten a little out of the day-to-day policy situation, but believe me, it doesn't matter any less. I still want my country and my state of BiH to belong to the civilization circle of the world. I want my country to be no longer a wild tribe in the Balkans but a country through which history and years met east and west, north and south. This is where civilizations came and went, this is where they were created and left us in the amanet of their artifacts to prove it. Not taking care of our country's cultural institutions in the fields of science, culture and art puts us right in the position I was talking about. I, by this parliamentary question which I refer to the Council of Ministers, once again reminds me that, the real Bosanac and Hercegovac, we do not want to. We want to be accepted as we really are, and we prove it through our scientific, cultural and other institutions that are totally and completely sometimes forgotten and neglected. We are aware of the ugly images and situations, the closures of our theatres, art galleries, shame and shame in front of the civilized world. And we want to go to Europe! Shame! I have drawn up my question very decadently and very concisely, and I have explained in very detail what I want and what I ask the Council of Ministers to do, and I will ask for a little technical assistance, as usual, from my esteemed colleague, Mrs. Dervoz, to read my parliamentary question on my behalf. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6616	Thank you. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6617	I can do without, I believe, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and guests. For the first time in the history of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a reception was organised on October 15th, White Stick Day. The reception was favoured by the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Denis Bećirović and MP Adnan Bašić. Among other things, the issue of resolving the status of institutions of science, culture and art of special importance for BiH was raised. The library for blind and weak-sighted persons, the only one in BiH, has a special status at two levels, as a cultural institution of special importance for BiH, and as an institution of special importance under the European Convention on Persons with Disabilities. The institutions of science, culture and art in BiH have been extremely marginalised in the past so that they are in a difficult material, human and organisational state and require more significant support from the institutions of government. In this regard, I ask the following representative question: 'When and how will the status be resolved and the smooth work of the Library for Blind and Failing Persons as well as seven institutions in the fields of science, culture and art of importance for BiH?' Representative Adnan Bašić, with the support of the entire Alliance of Representatives' Club for a Better Future, points the issue to the BiH Council of Ministers, and we ask the answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6618	Thank you. The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6619	Mr. Chairman, I use myself to direct questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6620	The word has Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6621	Before I ask this particular question, I would like to invite the authorities on this occasion to answer my question that I asked two months ago, and I didn't get it. I think the government service agency responsible, when I asked a question about the structure of civil servants and deputies in BiH's institutions, did not get the question. I don't think the question is complex and that you could give an answer quickly. I think that the Agency, which is out of control as many institutions, ignores the proposal, and it probably does, as others, receive substitutors without a legal basis. What Mr. Jurišić is, I have to reach out, look, only on these things could the executive power save that 20 million, why can't we bring the budget here. I don't want to talk about cars. Because usually the answer follows, so we can't drive in a wagon. No Niko's looking. But when you look at Davos, Switzerland, every year when that meeting of businessmen, the Prime Minister, etc. is held, you will see there that you have middle-class cars, pastures, even buses, and not what is done in BiH. It's not just executive power here, it's in 19 entities everywhere. And we can't bring a budget for 20 million, so you can sit down and see where you can save that 20 million and get the budget. So it's so irresponsible that it doesn't have it in the world. This has no responsibility in the world in BiH in institutions, especially executive power. And the press, the ambassador's salary, the ambassador's salary, they're always potential. So look at the executive power, see how much they spend. Look at those who have, now my colleague has shown me how much they receive for the board's membership that meets twice: 3,000 and some marks. Well, my people, it's not, so America wouldn't be throwing money around like this. I'm sorry, I used a little bit to maybe serve it as some kind of impulse.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6622	Comrade Kunić, you've spent 3 minutes for...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6623	Now you could take my word for it, you can. But, well, you won't, you're a Democrats, a young Democrats who have a perspective.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6624	Comrade Kunić, we are not here for being young or old, but for being chosen by the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6625	Okay, I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6626	Go ahead, try the shortest.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6627	To ask the question: 'Why are working contracts in the OSA of BiH illegally broken down for tenants who do not have the necessary number of years of insurance training? And it's a general phenomenon in BiH. Once again, the other institutions are doing the same. So I also refer this issue to the OSA, director of the OSA BiH, and to the Council of Ministers to take a position on the matter. So, pensioners are sent without having 40 years of work insurance, and the Law on Labour in BiH institutions says it is seeking an insurance internship, not a job internship. Well, people stay out of work, sue institutions, and the trial is being conducted for two or three years. So, a threat to human rights, this is a vision of a very serious threat to human rights. And I ask that the Council of Ministers take a position in this regard and inform the other institutions that they cannot do so." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6628	Thank you. The word has Amir Fazlić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6629	So here, esteemed president, esteemed colleagues, I thought I'd give up on my question, since my colleague Nermin asked a similar question, but since we haven't coordinated, there are some differences in questions, so I'm still going to ask two short questions. First question: "Did the Council of Ministers respect the legal procedure for the appointment of the Director of the BiH Return Fund?" And secondly, 'Is the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of Anti-Corruption Fight familiar with the possible illegal actions of the director of the institution mentioned and, if so, what has she done?' I expect a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6630	The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6631	Well, I have three parliamentary questions, but I will deliver them in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6632	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer my parliamentary question to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and it is related to the old foreign currency savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, which has an extremely large number of funds. ... My question concerns, as many old foreign savings are at the Ljubljanska Banka and are looking for a substantial amount of funds. My question: "What has the Ministry done so far and what is it planning to do to bring back their earned money to the citizens of BiH?" The second parliamentary question I refer to the Federation government: 'As there has been a Court ruling in Strasbourg in Branimir Đokić's case against the Federation, I ask the question when they are planning to return military apartments or make up for financial citizens from the RS who were holders of housing rights until '92. years or have they bought them before?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6634	Thank you. The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6635	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you to pay a little attention to the content of my question as it represents an area that can be particularly problematic for BiH. The parliamentary issue, therefore, concerns the process of collecting the debt claim for the Hadith Project on whose realisation Sarajevo Hydrobuilding was engaged. The demands were granted and charged by Iraq by then-arranged administration of charges through the Jubmes Bank of Belgrade and whose account already holds bonds worth 26.7m. Due to the complete exclusion or lack of interest of state institutions in the process of realising these claims, entity governments reported recently reached an agreement on the distribution of funds between Hidrogradnja and the RS Investment and Development Bank, which manages the assets of Hydrograding East Sarajevo, which I recall was founded in 1992, so after the work on that project was completed. In this context, I ask the following questions: '1. What is the legal basis for the BiH Council of Ministers, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury not to participate in the process of collecting these claims? 2. How and on what basis did the entity government agree on a $26.7m allocation structure? 3. Is this agreement realized even if it isn't why it isn't? 4. What is the fate of an earlier agreement on the settlement of the question of the collection of these claims? 5. Is it true that there is also an arrangement with an intermediate firm in Belgrade that has been given the authority to sign payment orders, and if that is true, what is the price of the engagement? Six. What is the fate of this agreement in the context of the agreement between the two entity governments and what and what obligations do they have towards the intermediary firm? It also speculates on the commitments arising from the implementation of this project by one company from the Republic of Croatia. Seven. Who, how, and from what means, will settle these debts? 8. How much further will the pro-longing of these claims create additional obligations and could Sarajevo's Hidrogradation become a taxpayer of Iraqi debt? Nine. Who is responsible for the huge losses resulting from the prolonging of this bill, and will someone therefore suffer the consequences and what?' A question addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of the RS. 22 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6636	The word is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, before I ask the question, so I'm going to get a little bit attached to that discussion of mine from before, I'm going to be brief, and in that direction they are, and I'm saying, these are my questions. From so far various reports, we have also adopted reports from all these agencies, directors, administrations, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions and from all of these reports, and here in today's answer to the representative question of counterpart Salke Sokolović, that the fees to members of the administrative, supervisory and not all of the names are called, in these bodies, means state agencies, directorship and administration – are different. And how much memory I have of them moving in some amounts of some 600,00 marks, so I don't know how much. E, in this direction my question to the Council of Ministers of BiH would read: 'Is there any or the Council of Ministers of BiH determining how and the level of compensation and whether there are rules on the level of fees and whether they are the same for all BiH institutions and, guided by the answer to this question by colleagues of Salke Sokolović, in which the Council of Ministers found a foothold for monthly compensation to members of the Management Board for indirect taxation of the shameful 3,632 marks a month? 3,632 marks a month!? Here's a little while ago, my colleague Kunić came out, and in the context of what I was talking about, and I wanted to mention that there are some systematically destroying this country, systematically, here through these fees, it's important to hang somewhere. Is it standardised to make decisions and regulations when it comes to fees on these committees? And what is the basis of such a decision? I called her a disgrace.' Next, that's the first question. Secondly, I'd have an initiative, if it fits these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6638	Time's up, now, let's try it in the shortest.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6639	I'll be brief, I'll be brief. Here is an initiative to convene the thematic session of the BiH Parliament, or the House of Representatives, before the adoption of the budget, and to have a conversation with all these agencies, directorates... I'd put it in writing, but here's the direction you'll get... questions. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6640	All right, please deliver it as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6641	Thank you, Chairman. 23 'We've been reviewing the report of the Management Board of the Higher Education Agency. I'd have two questions. First it was sent to the Office for the Audit of Institutions which worked in February reviewing the impact of the Higher Education Agency, but we have not seen the results of this review until today, so I am interested in when these results will be available to the public." The second question is addressed to the Agency itself. 'In fact, the government of Austria donated 300,000 euros to the Agency to strengthen its work. I want to know how these 300,000 euros were spent and I ask that I be provided with a method of spending according to the items." And third, I'd like to launch an initiative here. In fact, I was contacted last week as the chairman of the Human Rights Commission by representatives of the Ugor Association Jelah of Tešnje and the Association of Workers of Persons with Disabilities from the Republic of Croatia, based in Banja Luka. It seems to me, at least from what I've concluded with them in the conversation, that only this Parliament has tried to help these people before. The Council of Ministers, through Parliament's conclusions, took some action and made an Action Plan. However, according to the last conclusion, it seems to me since 2009 that this parliament adopted, every six months the Council of Ministers was due to deliver a report to Parliament on what it did. But there are no such reports, and the position of these people has not improved. What they asked me to do and what I am doing here on their behalf is to launch an initiative to include in the agenda of the session of the point: 'A report by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia, and in the period since '91. Years to '95. years fired from work.' I must say that they also addressed the President of Croatia, Mr Ivo Josipović, and the answer they received, God Bog one of our members of the Presidency responds to one such, we would probably have one new condition to submit an application for EU candidate status. I'm the one who brought it here, now that I'm not reading, in writing, all the material needs to be delivered. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6642	The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6643	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. I have four shorter questions, so I would like to start with the first one: 'As the Office for Auditing BiH institutions noticed with its audit that several budget users during the year have engaged persons under the contract for the work of performing the tasks provided for in the current systemisation, with the same after a certain period, those persons, voluntarily engaged to work indefinitely, asking whether one competent institution, or inspection, had any of the above-mentioned laws sanctioned them for such behaviours?' 24 Second question: ‘When is it possible to expect the Council of Ministers to consider and adopt the necessary sub-legislative acts in accordance with the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, especially those categories of costs relating to the use of vehicles, telephones, representations, travel expenses and the like, since there are a number of irregularities for which auditors warn?’ The third question: 'In view of the situation in which we are located, as well as the favourable opportunities for the preparation and launch of some projects, which would significantly reduce the external trade deficit of BiH, I ask the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry: Which projects is specifically intended to be launched in the coming year, individually by cantons and in what amounts? I also refer to the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Brcko District." And the fourth question: 'Considering the letter of the Office for Audit of 6.10.2011, which was addressed to the MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in which there were failures and shortcomings which questioned the compliance of the management status and members of the boards of directors with the legal regulations, as regards the Commission for concessions of BiH, the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Regulatory Agency for Communications and its Council, the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH, as well as the Office for the Review of Appeals - I ask the question of who is responsible for the unresolved status of those and the inconspicuous damages created by such failures?' That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6644	Thank you. The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6645	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, I follow my colleague Jagodić, and I will ask four parliamentary questions. First for a representative, or agent of the BiH Council of Ministers before the European Court of Human Rights. The question is: "How many currently open processes against BiH at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, what are these cases and at what stage?" The second question is for the BiH Prosecutor's Office: 'How long has the BiH Prosecutor's Office been charged with war crimes in the Casin region so far, and how have they ended up? How many indictments are in the procedure officially and what about the investigation of recently discovered tombs within the former barracks "Adil Besic" in Bihac? For the government of the Federation of BiH: "Who are the biggest taxpayers in the Federation of BiH, and what is the government intending to do to collect these debts and why hide these debtors from the public?" 25 And the final question for the government of the Unsaniscan Canton: ‘To what extent is the Law on Public Income of the Unsaniscan Canton, how much has been transferred to lower levels of government over the past four years, what is the structure of these funds?’ So, I ask for detailed information and ask for answers in writing to all questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6646	Thank you. The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6647	We have an initiative. Therefore, the BiH Party MPs in accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure include the following topics: the 2011 report by the European Commission on BiH's progress, the draft resolution on constitutional changes in BiH, which will be discussed at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, is proposed by Miro Petek from Slovenia, and the third one is the resolution on the political situation in the Balkans, which was adopted at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I don't think any particular explanation is necessary. It is international documents that are extremely important for BiH, as regards BiH, it has this obligation towards us, etc. And at least all MPs and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should know and know this content. It is unacceptable that we have not officially received, I am talking about all MPs, delegates, these documents. It's inadmissible. So, I welcome the consistency of our delegation upstairs, they had amendments, as I understand it, agreed amendments and intervened and these amendments were adopted, etc., but these are our delegations. We should know what this is about. So that's the reason for this initiative. And by the way, the initiative, i.e. the proposal, suggests to the co-workers of both homes that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should not be questioned in situations where international institutions, the Council of Europe, the European Commission, etc., bypass this parliament, reports to the Council of Ministers, our colleagues are not invited to PIC meetings, etc. We in the past have dealt with this matter and fought to be invited to the PIC, etc. We suggest that you, MPs of the BiH Party, maintain it and seek the treatment of this parliament that it deserves. These same people, when they come through Sarajevo, demand to address this parliament, but when they are official, some procedures don't come to their senses to call Parliament's leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6648	It's no place to talk here, of course, but, Mr. Belkić, you've said a few facts that don't stand. But what's there is. Danijela Martinović has a word. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I have one question which I refer to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH: 'What are the reasons..., in my thinking and information that I have, unwarrantedly hitching to the signing of the Protocol on the Cooperation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises with the Republic of Turkey?' An explanation of the issue: BiH conducted a procedure in 2005 to sign a Protocol on the Cooperation of Small and Medium Enterprises with the Republic of Turkey. After the process of agreeing on the proposal for a protocol was almost completed early this year, the Republic of Turkey changed the name of an institution that would be their signatories to this protocol. This resulted in BiH restarting procedures, in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. A new proposal has been submitted for the text of this protocol, which was also requested by the BiH Department of International Law Relations Department. The letter of that ministry said that it is not necessary to implement the procedure in accordance with the law, so ask for the opinion of the entity and the Brcko District for the reason that the Protocol on the Cooperation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises with the Republic of Turkey is the Implementation Protocol of the Free Trade Treaty and an integral part thereof. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 4(5) (e) of the Law on the procedure for enforcing international contracts, it is prescribed that the entity’s opinion is only required provided that the international contract regulates issues which are in the entity’s exclusive jurisdiction, which is not the case here. Also, the Law on the Ministrys and other BiH administration bodies in Article 9 provides for exclusive powers of the BiH state. The paragraph (7) of that article states that the development and promotion of entrepreneurship is one of BiH's responsibilities, and for these reasons it is not necessary to seek an opinion from the entity government. Despite the facts raised by BiH, however, the ministry has halted the procedure for signing this protocol. For the sake of all this, I would like to make a written statement to the Ministry of Foreign Trade on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6650	Thank you. The word is Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6651	Thank you, Chairman. So I think we are all aware of the situation in which BiH is concerned with corruption and crime. Inspired by the 2010 audit reports, I think there are at least 15 institutions in BiH and their leaders already in prison, but no one told them, and no one told them, I think we are responsible too. So I'm going to ask a question, and where were we directly involved in the formation, or the election, and that's 27: 'What's going on with the Anti-Corruption Agency? I would like to remind you that almost two years ago, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was passed, namely 21.4.2010, Mr. Mijo Krešić was appointed V.D. Director of the Agency. What did the Agency do for over a year while the gentleman was in charge? What does the director and the two deputies who named this home three months ago, where this agency, which is her address, what's her phone number, how much money has this Agency spent so far, and what's her score? A conscious situation, that is, how long will we be by corruption among the worst countries in the world, in rank with Šri and Sri Lanko? Citizens probably don't even know where these countries are, but they do know that BiH has narrowed down to crime and corruption. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted a five-year Anti-Corruption Strategy, reminding me, 2009. In 2014, it's been almost two years, and we haven't done anything about it. Whether the Agency for...corruption has the support of the Council of Ministers and other things, I think we should participate as much as possible in resolving these issues." Chairman, I'm asking for a written response from the director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6652	Thank you. The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6653	Respected chairman, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, colleagues and colleagues, as if I were at the beginning of the term of office last term. Almost identical parliamentary issues, a bit similar, different, new colleagues, of course, didn't even need to follow what we were asking. Question to us: Do we have the strength to change this chaotic state? Two years, 2007 and 2008 I asked, I don't know how many times, parliamentary questions. So I asked the award question: does any of our colleagues know how many agencies we have, the association paid for by this people and the BiH budget? And no one knew, of course. I don't know either, because that's impossible. Now, let's know, I'm asking a question, of course, it's not a burden for the Ministry of Finance and the Honorable Minister who works extremely there: Is it a secret to know how many employees are in jobs and their budget-paying positions? Is that a state secret? So I set up at least 15 times, is it possible today that a thousand cars are located and that every counselor, assistant, civil servants drive a state car? So I asked the mobile phone question, here's 10,000 today in institutions used, just by the mark to cost the budget, that's 10,000 marks. And now I'm asking a direct parliamentary question to the Ministry of Traffic. Guys, can't we just set up one number for three telecom operators and join the Association of European organ donors, not to watch that moaning every night, whether someone's gonna make donations or not, to save one child. To save one man! Am I going to appeal, and we are all here, to the humanity of these people, to Parliament's humanity to help our people, no matter nationality? Are we gonna watch every show of Batko moaning and bringing those unfortunate people there? So I will ask, but from whom I ask, all fellow MPs are satisfied with the answers. Is there anyone that 28 saw with their eyes that someone from the institutions was brought here as a thief with handcuffs? And we're just whining. The auditors did this, we did what, these things, nobody did anything. Finally, whether Parliament has the strength to say a lot more in this country and spending money in various ways. So I'm asking the Ministry of Finance again, after two years, and I've been getting information about exactly how many employees are there by the institutions as they've been bringing national structures, because in just four years, 1,500 new workers have been brought in, and here's the competition, and now it's going on, 300 new recipients. Who needs it more, people, when nobody's doing anything like this? Do we have the strength to say a lot more to this chaos? His information, so employees by name and last name of all institutions and the exact number, that he doesn't say 21,000 or 23,000 tomorrow, and no one knows. Cell phones from the secretary? What's a secretary gonna pay for a cell phone at the expense of the state? What are the drivers on the road today going to be a few hundred at the expense of this country, the assistants, the counselors, I don't know who anymore? Guys, this isn't a parliamentary issue that can be solved. There must be one session of this House's thematics and let's say a lot more of this chaos and riding when the people have no bread to eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6654	The word is Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a question of my life, because I had a problem, and here's what you'll see. So, for a long time, I have been exposed, and I believe all of you, I mean the MPs, as well as the citizens of BiH, to abuse by state and entity officials who have the right to police traffic escorts. Namely, for some of them I quote, so I don't say that everyone behaves like that – they don't apply the legal rules in traffic. They run across the line, pushing conscientious drivers... and thus endangering their safety, putting some into danger. I think we've all noticed that we're spending a certain period of time behind the wheel during the day. Apparently, these officials who act like this, in my opinion, are late for meetings or are training strictness on innocent citizens. And there are those who train hardness, get in luxury cars, and then they think the whole world is facing them. I demand the State Department of Transport and Communications to submit amendments to the parliamentary procedure and amendments to the Transport Safety Act, with reduced powers of police escorts, and that such behaviours on the roads or that such behaviours on roads are lifted or reduced to reasonable borders, where traffic security will not be compromised. Otherwise, I will prepare my own amendments to this law and deliver it to parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6656	Thank you. We're gonna treat this like an initiative, right? Okay. I've got a few MPs' questions, too, but I'm delivering them in writing. 29 At the end of this agenda, I would just like to remind myself that a number of MPs today have expressed dissatisfaction with the fact that they have not received answers to the questions asked within the business deadline. I will therefore, once again, call on the Council of Ministers, as well as other entities addressed to the parliamentary questions, that, indeed, in the next period of business scheduled delivery, all parliamentary questions will be answered. I hope that this hyperactivity of MPs within this point has also been observed by the Centre of Civil Initiatives. And we're going to the third item of the agenda: "Ad." 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the draft law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives The BiH Council of Ministers of the Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure on 26 September 2011 with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I note that this is about a law that has been declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative and the law remains in force until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts it without any changes and additions. We're deciding today on an emergency procedure request. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6661	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I want to say that I have really devoted a lot of time to repairing a law that is certainly interesting and who needs to be passed as soon as possible. But here, I'm very surprised that only one has been accepted since the original version of the 18 amendments. So, if so, it means that the law does not meet the basic reasons why I would vote 31 for its principles. So today we'll see what it'll look like with the amendments. If the amendments fall again, I don't think there's any reason to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6662	Are there any more reported? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics At the 9th session, held on 8th of January, the House again did not accept the negative opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, and the proposal for a law returned to the Joint Commission to deliver a new opinion. The Joint Commission delivered a negative opinion on the bill on the third time on 6.10.2011. I'm opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Commission. Šefik Džaferović applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6664	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think we should definitely adopt this negative opinion of the Commission and the bill to return it to the Council of Ministers for known reasons, but there is one additional reason. The Council of Ministers should deal with citizenship in light of the latest decision of the Constitutional Court and offer us solutions in light of the latest decision, to put and propose the removal of Article 17, Article 39, which declared BiH Constitutional Court unconstitutional, and then deliver the Law on Citizenship to us. So, the sooner this should be returned to the Council of Ministers, so here to confirm the Commission's negative position and to ask the Council of Ministers to do what the Constitutional Court requires. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6665	... moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on a State Aid System in BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers (First Reading) 32 The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the law in the parliamentary procedure on 8 September 2011, the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs Opinion on the principles of the Bill's proposal delivered 20.10.2011. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the constitutional basis of the Proposal for a Law on 24.10.2011. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6667	My colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a very important law ahead of us. There is no need to mention how crucial this law is for BiH's EU accession, but more importantly, this law regulates, in fact, one fair development of BiH, on the other hand, one transparent incentive for sectors and companies that would find themselves competitively in the problems and way of a transparent incentive for these companies to maintain the sector and produce, while at the same time avoiding competition in the competition. I therefore think that we should make a maximum effort to adopt this law, that is to say, to let it go further in this first reading and then to supplement it in the second reading procedure, respecting that there are objections and certain disagreements regarding the articles. Well, I also have certain remarks and suggestions that I'm going to make in the amendment phase. But essentially here to point out some things that should be corrected in this law. In Article 4(3), when it comes to implementing bodies, the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation, the Government of the Republic of RS, the Government of the Brcko District, the governments of the canton or county were left out, and should be there. As regards Article 3(2), in addition to these already listed implementing and implementing bodies, government canton and county governments, which are therefore constitutional categories in the Constitution of BiH, are also mentioned. Furthermore, I think it is a mistake in Article 7 when it is defined how many members the institution gives in the Council. Two persons were placed on behalf of the Council of Ministers. I think there will be a need to increase to three people, I don't need to explain to you why, and accordingly, the number of Council members will increase to eight. And I don't think that's going to violate the consistency of this bill in any way, and it's going to make it easier for us to get to the Council. And of course, there have been further discussions on certain parts of the articles, so in Article 7 two last paragraphs (5) and (6) I think they are unnecessary here and I think that, with some minor further adjustments, we can come to an acceptable text of the law, which will allow it to be adopted. And finally, I appeal to everything, and we will do, I will do everything on my part to adopt this law and, to say the words, cancel one of the conditions that are ahead of us on the way to meeting the requirements for acquisition, that is, for BiH's application to the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6668	I thank my colleague Ljubić. 33 The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6669	As far as we are concerned, we are also fully aware of the importance and obligation of BiH to pass this law. However, a practice is beginning to develop precisely based on the fact that there are things that are necessary to do and for which people in BiH are committed, or politicians who sort of represent them here. And then there's a situation where solutions are offered that aren't of a quality, solutions that don't bring results in perspective or in application, and then problems about the functioning of institutions, etc. are opened. In one word, some compromises are made under quotes, which produce solutions that are practically very difficult to function at all, all using the fact of the necessity of a solution, i.e. the necessity of passing appropriate laws. We have at the beginning publicly expressed disagreement, even through the Council of Ministers, disagreement with the concept of this law. Now, before that, I'm just going to say a few things, we're really going to try and do something at this amendment stage, even though I'm not really optimistic, on this plan. Let's say that the draft contains alternative solutions that have not been a practice so far, absolutely. When it comes to funding, the Council, or an independent body, is funded combined, so states and entities, each one-third at a time. So, in the beginning, practically the state body cannot decide on its own, because the one who finances you practically to him and in some ways you answer. Of course, there is the appointment, the way of appointment, so they have governments: states, entities and one member of the Brcko District. Although the Council is defined as an independent public institution, you don't really know what it is, whether it's an authority of the administration or anything else. In practice, the Council has the right to decide whether to grant or return funds, but it does not know by which procedure and within which time limits and which time limits it is required to return, etc. The explanation is that many things will be settled, i.e. these indiscretions to sublegal acts, but the law itself does not state what sublegal acts are. It is even claimed that the legal status of the Council will be established, i.e. by the Council, by its rules of procedure, which we find impossible. So, we practically through this law by fulfilling the obligation I don't know whether those who assess our performance will consider this as a fulfillment, and probably will, they've established a practice – give us something to agree on, we'll accept it, and how it will later work and what it will bring to this country in reality, that's, that's another question. So in one word, we think that this law that needs to be absolutely passed, but not like this, is not a solution that can function for the purpose for which it is brought. So, simply, we have received an institution through which this law should be implemented, which will practically neither have the capacity nor have the clarity that it can function uninterruptedly as a state institution, but will be the hostage of the political bickerings that are recorded in practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6670	The word has Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6671	Well, let me say a few words. I think a little law has passed such a thorny way of alignment as this one. I think that since 2006, the Ministry of Economic Relations has been trying to make a whole bill that could get support in the Parliamentary Assembly. Because we know that this is one of three key conditions related to BiH's progress towards 34 EU, so with the census and census law and the fulfillment of the Sejdić and Finc rulings. Therefore, we have seen that the proposed law regulate certain general conditions for the assignment, control of allocation and use, approval and violation of legally granted state aid, and all in order to ensure competitive market conditions as an enforcement of commitments undertaken in accordance with international standards. As far as RS representatives are concerned, he is mostly acceptable to us, but not entirely. From the point of view of basic principles, we can say that he hit the point, that he is a quality improvement in the matter. That it implies that state property issues are addressed by all institutions, so all levels in BiH, so no one is excluded, both the entity and Brcko District and the state level. It is proposed to set up a Council for the Control of State Aid which would have seven members, and to decide it takes six, so the protection mechanism absolutely exists. And what's important is to point out here, that this is a jurisdiction that is not the jurisdiction of the state. So this is the jurisdiction of the entity, and that's why this law might just be coordinating with other things. So nothing that is not in BiH's jurisdiction can be done, but a law can be made to meet the requirements and allow each level to do its part of the job. So this is... the system, I think, in the course of the second phase of the amendment we will... propose a few amendments, and they relate that the Council as a public institution can be resolved in the way the Fiscal Council works today. We see that the Fiscal Council is in session, making decisions, and there's no problem with his funding. This could be a good thing for this law. Also, the right to compensation for members of the Council would be achieved within the institutions from which those who came in their composition, from the level of the Council of Ministers and from the level of entity governments and Brcko District. And lastly, thirdly, the funding of the Council would be provided in relation to 1 - 3 : 1 - 1 - 3... means two entities and the state level, so that we would also have that part of the job done. And by adopting this law... the basic objective of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement would be to ban state aid that violates competition. So, we would achieve what our task is, we would do after many years, here, it's five years of almost trying to make this ministry a law that, with minor changes, could get a passivity and that BiH is sending a clear message that the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement can be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6672	Azra Hadžiahmetović applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6673	Well, you see, there's one questionnaire, it says, which river flows under the Sava Bridge? That tells you about the State Aid Act... Are we passing an entity aid law or a state aid law? Of course, here in the discussion we heard from colleague Majkić, there were many things, first of all, and seeing our inner work, present, future, etc. But what I want to draw attention to, this is a great test of how we can function in the context of European integration, above all the EU. If we also turn the state institutions into a co-ordination body or those who remember the Law on Joint Labour, dictionaries of the Law on Joint Labour, a working community of 35 services, we can never even get close to the EU, and in particular solve any problem. And in that sense, I ask that we focus, the draft law on state aid, state aid, and not entities and entity aid, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6674	Slavko signed up for the word. I'm sorry, the replica has Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6675	So, we in the RS have so far had the Law on State Aid and applied it regardless of what applied only to RS. So if this law is not passed, we will continue to resolve this State Aid Act and it will be called that, it is our perception of what our country is. So it's right to say what we think is the problem. This is not BiH's jurisdiction, this is the entity's jurisdiction. Therefore, in order to fulfil the obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, all must make part of the effort and adopt the law. That means it's really his coordinating role. You have also heard many EU representatives who have said – does not mean that everything must be at national level in order to meet the requirement. So, they made that clear, doesn't mean it's on BiH level, it's the only principle that applies. Make it work, and this could work, or maybe we don't need that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6676	The word is Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6677	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so I must say at first, as previous debaters have said, that I am not repeating this, but the obvious progress in the making of this law and its up-to-dateness is the EU's view that it is already known to everyone about these three principles. But I must say publicly, the merits of Minister Zirojević and his ministry and his colleagues and the whole composition who worked on all this, and then, of course, the Council of Ministers who sent this to us. From my knowledge, in conversation with people, and everyone's interested in this, we're somewhere in the final game, and now we just don't know how many judges gave us an extension, 1 minute, 2 minutes, 3 or 5. But we ended the game, so to be simple, 99% has no objections and there is, I'll say, full consent. What is crucial and what we have talked about and on this committee, and we will see through the amendment phase, will certainly be a member of the 9th, of the 8th, possibly and 10th. So whether it was going through a discussion or some final solution, is this an entity thing, and it is called the state law: if I am the composition of this council, the interests of the entity and the Brcko District are protected. So he is also perceived as being copied as part of the Fiscal Council, which was adopted by this same parliament. So, if it's already 99% harmonised and there's no fundamental objections, then that 1% I don't think should be, but apparently it's going to be a key problem for the adoption of this law. What is the problem with funding that costs bear one-third of the Federation, one-third of RS and one-third of the Council of Ministers. So don't sit in this advice of five hundred people, you know its composition: two, two, two, three times two, plus one, here's seven. It's also known what the insides are and how they're going to decide. So what's the problem? I don't know if a single law passed this parliament, that right after maybe a month or a half of a year... there were no amendments and additions to that law. Because walking was noticed that it either worked or didn't work or that they had some brakes. And the EU in the talks, of course with these people, does not suggest, they just say – bring it. So here, when they say 36 bring it, let's go get it, let's see what it looks like. So I've said a hundred times here, it's not a single law of the Kur'An, the Holy Scriptures and the Bible that we won't change it. We haven't even seen its application, and we're already concerned about how it will harm, I don't know, BiH because it will be protected, through these two representatives from RS, the vital interest of the entity. Well that's logical, it's a constitutional category that an entity exists and you can't erase it, in any law, not in the Constitution, not at all. So we're very close to at least getting rid of these three conditions one thing. When this list thing comes, if it will be, we're here again, we'll decide. About the decision of Sejdić and Finc we see and there, of course, all the different interests, because through this we would want to do anything as well as through this law. So, to be clear, since we are talking about principles today, we will in any case support the principles of this law, because it does not disturb the essence of other entity laws and Brcko District, but a law that should be beneficial to all. Well, when we ourselves don't want someone else to help us with this law, and there will be some funds, it will no longer be prevented from hiring us, so as much as anyone can, however much, miss them and don't owe us anything. Let's help ourselves once, and so is every law. These are principles. Give us the law to help ourselves. Here we go. So, I plead at my colleagues and in the amendment phase when it comes to this committee that they don't insist much on something that's already agreed on. Of course, if there is an interest in the peoples, entities and cantons and counties, then as reasonable people, we must respect that. But I repeat, it will be crucial around this funding and the composition. So when we define everything, I ask that this law, here, let us give some elan and say - here are the people, we did something before these others that might have been more invited to do it. So, let me finish one more time, as my colleague Majkić said, this is a long time in the process and we know what we had problems and conversations and bilateral and individual and with this and with that and now commission phase. You know the deadlines. Amendments? We heard today in a debate where these remarks could mainly apply. We have to, and we always have to, so we should compromise some of us. People, well, the compromise is that if one-third will pay for the RS and the government, so she won't just take her own help, then she'll come back for this advice again. They'll decide again, and what's the problem? The law will again be called: the BiH State Aid Act. There's no law on state aid to my city, my street, I don't know who. Don't just go into some details that aren't essential to function and, most importantly, the implementation of this law that should benefit that end-user there. So I'm asking you and I've already told you, and I'm going to repeat that we're going to support principles and we're going to support them and, I say, by my estimates, here are the people we didn't have a law where we have 90 and here's 8, 7, 9%. It's all regulated, it's over, it's over, if that 1% puts us in a position that we can't pass this law, just because someone doesn't like it, like we had a debate on the Commission, not to pass on that atmosphere. Well, I don't agree what... RS pays one-third, one-third of the Federation, one-third of the Council of Ministers. Well, that's our money, our people, our people, that's the money of all these taxpayers, what does that matter? And I say, that advice doesn't count I don't know a few thousand, or the budget, a little bit... of this here money will be, right, Minister, more than the budget and the rest. _________(?) 37 [[no microphone turned on]] It won't be. Well, we always have big expectations, but good. Okay, we have great expectations. So to finish, we give support and not to complicate and to meet at least one of those conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6679	Beriz Belkić applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6680	I signed up for Mrs. Majkić's line, but here, I listened to Slavko, so I say, my Slavko, this problem is that the devil is in the details. So the question is, what do we even need if we have the Law on State aid to RS, as Mrs. Majkić said? So we don't need the law, obviously we're doing unnecessary work. It's not about funding, how many RS people are, how many are from the Federation, how many are from the Brcko District, or the way we decide, we're used to it. However, one practice and one tendency have opened, so under pressure and the need to meet certain conditions to finally move away, solutions are getting worse and more unquality. We'll simply get non-functional institutions, para-institutions that can't work. So we're turning the state into something that doesn't look like the state. Such a category and such EU countries do not receive. So that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6681	The word has a Šefik. The Republic has Dušanka Majkić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6682	It would be good, fellow Berizu Belkić, if these institutions we have formed so far were good, functional, working economically, not spending huge resources, not acting the way they behave. We'll have audit reports soon, and then what you said would be: you'd be quite right. But it doesn't mean having it at the level of the BiH institution, that it will be all you've said. So no one could challenge your claims on condition that they are our institutions. And we know what our institutions are like. Indeed, you have no argument that could prove on condition that it is an institution organised as an institution of BiH that entities have no interference and that it will be good and functional. I even think countless arguments could challenge that. That's why I think this coordinating function would ensure that the law is passed, touched by all levels of government and that we have what Europe requires of us. She won't comment on what a co-ordinating role it is, she won't have any objection at all, and we'll have the law. So is it effective to break the law because, here, because of its co-ordinated role? It's going to have to be a growing number of laws if we're going to bring them in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6683	Another replica, Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6684	Here I agree with you in the first quotes of your discussion, therefore. But I remind you that these are the institutions, our institutions that we have established. So it's our responsibility to function them, and no one's stopping us from opening up a debate about one by one and seeing both their capacity and their competence, what they've done, whether they need to, cost-effectiveness, etc. I absolutely agree with you if something was established and there's no use of it, so he's a crazy man who would support it. So, I completely agree with you. But I'm also talking about something else, and the EU and any serious international association in its membership are not going to accept something that doesn't look like a state, and we're doing more and more to make it look like a state. So some joint institutions, some as framework laws, some coordination etc. This stops looking like a state. If that's our goal here, it's, it's our country. And if we want such a scheme, there's no other scheme, these are limits. Gentlemen, there is no other scheme, this is our country. It's up to us to make it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6685	Replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6686	Of course, it is difficult to avoid any important law that we do not go to one breadth and we do not draw up the things that have been moved many times in this House and that are obviously difficult to agree on and the question is whether or not we will ever agree on it. What Mr. Belkić is saying, obviously, that two sightings of this situation are one thing, as far as I know, that in this particular case, the message from Europe is that we agree. So, Europe didn't say, no one should be the lawyer of Europe that she doesn't want, she said, means she wants a deal and whatever the deal is -- the deal is this country. But here we go with politics or something. I think if the goal is to simplify things, that Mostar, Trebinje, Sarajevo, Zenica, Banja Luka get the funds, so I think, the end-user, I'm not sure I'm interested in the way of those funds. I guess the goal is to get them, and let's agree on these modes or here's some technical questions yes, yes. So, let's not, politics failed when it went to Brussels and drew Europe what it would tell us what not to accept. It's gone. We've been hostages to this policy for several years, and I think it's time for us to take part in a new policy where people say make a deal, and whatever you agree, it's your country, it's your deal. And the third message, a message is constantly being sent that the state of Sarajevo, and that RS is hostile territory. No, and it's a state, it's a state. So that's all BiH, and it's impossible for people in their messages to stop talking about the whole BiH state, that it's not just something in the Sarajevo state, that there's something in Mostar state and that I guess the citizens of all BiH belong to the state of BiH. I know what it means technically how rational it is. But here it's impossible that we can't get a debate on any BiH-level institution, that at least one of them stops working, it's impossible for them to function perfectly. No, that debate is not allowed here in this House, it goes like in chess touched - removed. It's finished, formed, it doesn't matter what doesn't work, it doesn't matter what... it's not true that these institutions are allowed to discuss. So, on several occasions, we tried to promote politics here that it didn't matter what color cats are but to hunt mice. We're being pushed by politics, we want to be cats and those colors, just blind. We think that, especially now in these times, it's a better policy that whatever the cat is, little and limp and nothing, it's better to hunt mice than to be blind. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6687	The word has the Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6688	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the right people who have said that this is the law that has been under discussion in BiH so far before it came to parliamentary procedure. I'd say before he came to the Council of Ministers or before the Council of Ministers passed. So, one question at a time was removed, and I'm getting circumstances in some way, because I'm interested in this matter, so I was involved, so I had some information about what was going on, is, in this process between entity governments that directly participated and the Ministry. And I knew that the law stood in this ministry and that it was not on the Council of Ministers because there are like two issues. One issue, so before the law came to the Council of Ministers, was the way decisions were made, because the proposal was to take from eight, or from seven members of the Council: two from the Council of Ministers, two from one entity, two from the other, one from the Brcko District, but two from each nation, at least two from each nation. So there's parity. And I think it's okay. Decisions are made by a majority of four votes. It was one proposal and they opposed the issue, or such a resolution was opposed by representatives from the RS, asking it to be six out of seven as it is now written here in this norm. The second question was also questionable, and that issue that is again being re-opened as a issue, and it is over. So I know it's over. This is the way of funding this institution, because it was a proposal from the RS to be a third, a third, a third, a third, so that this would be an entity-contribution institution, among other things, in two-thirds of its funding and not be an institution that will originally be financed from the BiH budget, which is of course very dangerous, both from the face of practice and from the aspect of the role of this institution and its responsibility. Because if we set up a body that will be a state aid regulator in BiH throughout the territory of the state, then responsibility to the BiH institutions is to us who participate in their work... and funding, therefore, not only to produce some new practice, to produce some mutant who has so far been unknown, and cannot be the capacity of the Fiscal Council, because this is an operational body. You take a look at his intel, and you'll see what that body does, what the contents of his work is, and you'll see that he can't do it. So this is a very difficult and very serious issue, and in the end, an agreement was reached to make funding come from the BiH institutions' budget. The two issues were agreed and the Council of Ministers passed, so they came to the Council of Ministers' agenda, and this is the law that it is, and I call on all colleagues to support this law in the first reading as it is, and if there are any technical repairs to the text of the law, let the amendments be made. And please, don't invest amendments that hit the foundations of this law, which have been carefully agreed for several years and between the entity governments and the Council of Ministers, so, if you will, here I will now say that the European Commission has been involved in this. So I'm asking you today to support this law in your first reading. Don't put any amendments in 'cause it's going to spoil everything. It'll get the impression, here I'll say it now, but it'll get the impression and no one's naive to see that one obstacle or one question is solved at one stage, so let's let it go now and then we'll fight to solve another question in our own way in the second phase. No, guys, we're serious and responsible in this country and if we've agreed on some levels, 40 of us are all political parties, so we're all here, and those people sitting in entity governments are from political parties and the Council of Ministers, and we agreed and let's do what we agreed. Because here the question of how to decide is solved, now it's six out of seven, so let's see what we do again with that other question that we think we should, it's agreed once, it's settled, and please let's get going. Look, in BiH, I'm not going in at all now, so this law protects both entities and municipalities and the state enough, this law protects and is sufficiently perceptive when it comes to specificity, which is why it is the most important thing. In fact, the essential thing here is whether this law tomorrow will make shackles, chains of the Bosnian Herzegovina economy, whether he's sufficiently perceptive from that aspect, that's actually the essential thing. Because you see how many companies we have where BiH as a state, I mean, the state is also a municipality that you know when I talk about it, and the state is also an entity, the state is also cantons, the state is, of course, the state level of government where it intervenes, helping to get jobs, to keep jobs. I think the people who designed this had in mind all these specificities, they left a free period, they chose the branches that this didn't apply to. That's the essential question and let's go, so I urge you to vote for this law today in the first reading. If there are any repairs, there are some things technical that I might want to fix, fix them. But don't, people, let's reopen the questions that this law hasn't been here in a parliamentary procedure for several years. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6689	Second replica, Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6690	Of course, we cannot accept this invitation that MPs are not actively involved in the creation of the law and that they are not technical issues. Of course, MPs decide which amendment will be submitted and to what extent they consider technical and political issues. But this is the law of one set of important laws and I could accept what Mr. Džaferović said that his argument applies, for example, to the bill on the list. Mr Džaferović said in this parliament: you will never get it from the SDA to vote in such a way, although the census law has been prepared by the European Commission, although it is a very important law, although without implementing the census there is no quality application of this law, everyone knows it. There is no economy and no BiH economy without a quality census, it is quite clear. That's when the principles apply that one party says - you'll never get it, and now we have an appeal that cuts a little bit and business with ours; I understand that it's technically right out of the desire to pass the law, and it can't, it can't, we can't agree on the fact that it's a technical question, it's a political question, and at this point I'm not sure how we're going to solve it. But I'd like the argument to be principled and that's how we approach every important law, especially with those that are connected and which represent one set and that we have the same approach to those three or four laws, let's say we go ahead and do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6691	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6692	I mean, there was no need for that, but here you were right, so you took advantage of it. 41 As for the list, he passed by here in this house, when you and I were both in this house together, and had you not wanted to pass through, you would not have passed through this house. Like if I didn't want to, I probably wouldn't have gone through this house. So it's not an argument. But I don't want to open up that kind of discussion right now... I wouldn't be talking about this law at all today if this wasn't more than the law. This is more than the law. The decision-making of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci is more than just the implementation of the verdict. The census is a little bit more now for BiH. That means candidate status, too, and that means stopping and that means continuing to move on the European path. That's why I got up and that's why I was saying that we should finally put an end to this behavior that we've had in BiH so far and move on, to finally go through European integration. It's true that MPs decide, but if the representatives of my political party participated in this whole thing, people who know it better than I do, and they say, well, that's it. Well, it's not like I'm an agent and I'm finally gonna raise my hand for it or not, that's the key thing, but we have to keep that in mind, and we have to keep that in mind. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6693	Milica Marković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's what I'm going to say a few words about the bill. First of all, I think the commendable fact that the Resort Ministry has managed to formulate a bill like this and deliver it here in the procedure, estimating the need and the various demands to have a debate, namely the adoption of one of these laws. On the other hand, the more I answer the word, the more I am surprised at the discussion of some colleagues in the sense that what is proposed is not enough, as is not what some people expected or how it should be. So, of course, by such an approach, it will likely question this bill. If we from the SNSD Club were to look at this bill only from the corner of RS where we come from and whose representatives we are here in this parliament, then we could say - so this law is one important and additional centralisation of BiH, and for us BiH is a complex and largely decentralised state community. And then we could say -- it's centralised and it has nothing to do with how BiH is defined in the Dayton Peace Agreement and we can't talk about it. But we realize it's 2011 now, that we have a serious intention and ambition to get candidate status and that's why we accept opening up a story about this law. I consider, as well as some of my previous colleagues who had previously said that the draft of this law significantly defines what it is and which is why we should eventually adopt it. But the reason I answered specifically is because of the need to get clarifications in two members. I would ask the minister if it is possible to give these clarifications, so that I might not be in a situation that may be unnecessary to submit amendments. Therefore, I am interested in Article 10, where it is said 'the Council has exclusive competence to approve the State aid programme and individual state aid... and to establish and manage the State aid list and the list of State aid schemes started before the establishment of the Council'. So what does 'before' mean, it's a very broad formulation of 'before the establishment of the Council'? We know that certain state aid was shared in '96. and '98. 2000s and all these years ago. Whether such 42 provisions will put this law in order of those laws where a variant is found to put the Council into one maze that will deal only with the question of some previous aids that have been, and no one will be able to trace them and neither will it be possible to point out when, how, in what way, and we know that the previous and pre-expanded assembly of Parliament has formed and commissions that have dealt with the research and the fate of the assistance that was coming to BiH. We also know that neither of these two commissions in any of the councils could have done anything concrete. So I think we should define or maybe an additional act will be adopted to define it. If that's the case, then we'd like to hear it. And secondly, this also applies to Article 20 where the Council is said to execute a list of state aids and the like. So, some similar activity that the commissions had that were formed in previous synergy. The second thing is the same in Article 10(2), he says, "The Council has the right to launch investigations and to carry out ex post assessments of the state aid granted." Does this mean that the Council will be, I say, a body under the Kadija system and sue you, when we know that the Council is a body that will define and create a framework of resources that will be available and will be distributed, or allocated. This can be completely brought into an analogous relationship with the budget that our parliament adopts and set a framework for how these funds will be shared and to whom they will be shared, and then on how to use or possibly abuse some other state institutions are dealing with such matters as state audit and so on. There is a dilemma here and a uncertainty as to whether this advice will be the one to assign, and immediately afterwards he will investigate, to investigate who he is, in what way he used those funds. So, we, I expect, therefore, to get clarification from the minister and I propose to colleagues who have discussed in style that this is not enough and that we should add something more and do this bill to bear in mind that the European Commission and the EU are all the conditions set before us, and we know that by a year or so, they have now brought down this tolerance threshold, and among other things it is said that this law is also one of three conditions in addition to the application and implementation of the European Court's ruling in the case of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac, the Census Act. So this is the third law we are asked to do in order to apply for candidate status... or perhaps this law will show what they are... certain masters, which is to complicate the situation as we have seen in the past few days that and in the commission we have appointed to implement the European Court ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc, the situation has already been complicated because it is not about implementing what the verdict says, which is that national minorities have the right to run for the BiH presidency member, but is now being introduced into that story and the number of MPs in the House of Representatives, the number of delegates in the House of Peoples, this and that. So, there are all kinds of variations that will only complicate and lead to nothing being done. If anyone has any intention and this law to do so, then it's pointless that this ministry was ever asked to do so and expected to do so, to work on it, to make one material like this, to get it all watered down. Because you have to bear in mind that everything that's required more than this law to be a coordination law, means a law that will coordinate between ethics, cantons, municipalities, Brcko District and others, so that's the maximum we need to do to have this law. And I am absolutely sure that neither the European Commission nor the EU is asking us to do more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6695	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6696	Thank you. 43 The fact that this is one of three conditions for our candidate status is not primarily determining in the view of us from the HDZ of BiH that we will support the principles of this law. More than that, we are given two or three other essential facts for this attitude. The first is that the adoption of this legislation will put us in a position to apply the same criteria, the same criteria, the same uniform way of functioning at the level of the entire state of BiH, regardless of what part of it was concerned, which is again a prerequisite for a consistent, high-quality and efficient development of the market economy, an economy with which competition is the basis. Secondly, the fact itself will stop the possibility that, as has been the case so far, we have many examples of approval at various levels of BiH state support to some companies, some economic operators, and some others not being approved, which, of course, violates both competition and fundamental principles of the market economy. ... These decisions are often managed by different party, political, one-national reasons and effects. Another important reason is that adoption... will, in essence, be harmonised with EU regulations, with the acquis of the EU, and that our step towards candidate status and Euro-Atlantic integration will be not only more formal but much more quality and much more content. Of course, there are places to intervene in the text itself, but these places, according to my modest assessment, are not essential and are certain amendments to make the text of the law even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6697	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. Did you answer it, or was it an accident? Okay. The discussion is further discussed by Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6698	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here I am not going to repeat what has already been said about this law, and the importance of this law and the need to pass this law. I just want to remind you of a few facts from the reasoning of this law. To remind us all, assuming that we have all read this in an explanation and to remind ourselves that this law since the day of the solution, the adoption of a solution of the Secretary-General is to date a time of five years of different forms of reconciliation. If we add that it is a law that is part of BiH's international obligations under at least three international agreements, Stabilisation and Association Agreements, CEFTA Agreements,... and, here, another third but not important, means agreement, the question is our wish, will or credibility to respect and implement our international obligations. The question is also... our willingness to come here after five years of arduous consent... to accept the fact that those five years have been spent by someone to come to a law that counts only 25 articles. So it's still, although looking at the aspect of the number of articles in the law, the complex matter, the matter that took so long and for which we have here the highest degree of conformity so far. I have also had the opportunity to listen to those who have the right to say whether this law is in line with the European 44 standards that we very often call upon in this Parliament and people have said, what we have today in the draft of this law is in line with these standards. So, the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation is the process in which we are slowly entering into, into which we will become increasingly involved and in which we will and how we will have to keep in mind whether the regulation that we adopt is in line with what we are here telling the European standards. It seems to me that... it was good, here I am, using the presence of a resolute minister and congratulating, here, regardless of the duration of these consultations, which we have nevertheless come to this law, and it seems to me that a small gap, let's call it that, which perhaps at the very beginning of the debate on this item of the agenda, regardless of what appears to be a simple law, has not heard the opening statement of the Secretary. I think that introduce exposure would remove many of the dilemmas that here each of us individually represents depending on how familiar anyone is with the details of this exhausting process. So I believe that this law satisfactorily resolves the state support system in BiH, that it may have been in some parts more centralised or more decentralised, depending on whether, what anyone prefers. But I think a measure of compromise has been found, respecting also means the need to say, because this law establishes BiH institutions among other things for the state support system. And within that institution, no matter how I write it myself, I describe it... they're all represented. You have the same entity representation as the state, perhaps, here is colleague Ljubić speaking, perhaps some of us would like if more cantons were represented, perhaps some would like if the municipalities were more represented. You have the Brcko District because of its specific status which is represented in the way it is represented. So these are all the dilemmas that can be opened, I still think we should appreciate the effort that the Resolute Ministry has made and all those who worked with him on this job together to get to this draft of the law. And try not to spoil the business, or, as some have already said, to show that we know and appreciate what some do and that we're not just here to spoil even when someone does something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6699	Thank you. The next one was registered for discussion by Honourable MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6700	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Ladies and gentlemen, I have answered the discussion to first of all say that we, especially SNSD MPs, are primarily concerned about the adoption of this law, which would meet certain conditions that the EU puts before us. I think my colleagues have already said that enough and we care about it, and here's how we care and give up in the good part of the jurisdiction we had. We want BiH and we want a law like this and we want to get candidate status so that we can join access funds that we can develop BiH faster. However, first of all, congratulations should be given to the minister and to this ministry and to the task force that has worked on this, because she has respected the reality of the entity, the law is well-sustained, but let us as MPs also have certain suggestions and remarks that should be respected here. And especially when it comes to sometimes, I'm afraid they don't get me wrong, so I have a better time for these agencies, but here's what I'm going to do, that we can't do anything to them. In several previous 45 meetings of the Committees on Budget and Finance, we have a situation where we have no agency representatives at all, no responsible people from the institutions come to show in a relevant way what we are asking them as a question. And believe that sometimes a man feels so uncomfortable that he doesn't even know what to ask them. Among others, you see there that certain funds are being obtained, etc., cars that are a little more expensive, etc. To such questions, the most responsible of that agency and not answering and you can't be so bold and rude that you ask it several times, but when we figure out what we can do to this agency, this leadership that's been slightly alienated in some way. For these reasons, some suggestions that might be useful under the amendment would be the right thing to do, here in the RS we suggest that funding be done in this way. So we immediately reduce the budget cuts at BiH level. It will fully protect everyone's interests, but for these very reasons I have reported: you can't when you form certain agencies, you are no longer able to do anything. For these reasons, don't let us spoil the thing long-awaited, made in the highest quality approach, that because of the tiny little repairs that we're going to lose the law and not show Europe how ready we are to respect the rules and principles, and that she also warned us that how we agree on a being. I therefore appeal to MPs that we have a little more tolerance here and that in some ways we come to these three conditions that are necessary for us to join the EU, and I think that this Parliament has much more understanding lately and I hope that we will succeed. For these reasons, I urge you to respect these attitudes that we speak of and speak of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6701	Thank you. Dear Minister Mladen Zirojević came to the floor, and here are two other MPs who applied. Minister, you want a word now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6702	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, here I am simply... to express the satisfaction that this law has come to this end, because all five years as far as the draft is concerned, or the bill, there was really little reason for optimism. You should not be reminded that this law is of exceptional importance, that it is one of three conditions to obtain a position to submit a valid application for EU membership and to begin to gain candidate status. You know all the benefits one such status BiH can bring. As I said, my predecessor, Minister Puhalac, formed the first task force to pass the text of the bill. She had countless meetings, very many bile and difficult discussions, diametrically opposite attitudes, and indeed all of that time it seemed there was no way that this law would get some broad support. The last version of the law was that what was a stumbling block was, in fact, how and how to organize this body that performs the assignment of state aid, what to call it, what powers to give it, how to form its work. The last version that didn't get light, nor the passage of the entity and the green light was that of the kind of business being done by the Competitive Council. The entity's explanation of why it is not supported by such a request is that it simply does not need to create a super-body, a super-body with 46 additional powers, except those already defined by law and given to the Competitive Council. And then it came simply at a time of apathy where simply no one expected to get the strength to propose such a law in the technical mandate of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the resolution ministry. I decided to contact the most responsible people of the entity very openly, transparently and to see what it was and what it was and how it could be overcome, suggested a few things and felt that I had received some principled support. That support was mirrored by that proposal that was before you to... The State Aid Council sort of has a green light. Believe me, it was a few months before the election and after the election where no one ever asked me what was wrong with that law, not even representatives of the European Commission, the international community who have been livingly interested in passing this law all this time. Here after a lot of effort, we are working on one text which, let me remind you, was almost unanimously supported by the Council of Ministers and established draft laws. There is a very complex law in front of you, although there are only 25 members, I would say the historical law, and some before me spokesmen called it that, a law which, as Mrs. Majkić said, had a thorny path, was not easy at all. One word, one provision was discussed for months. And so I ask you, with a lot of sensitivity, to approach any corrections to the bill, because some essential and important and more radical changes will certainly create an atmosphere where someone will not be satisfied, and then bring us back to the starting position again. Someone said that there are a lot of international contracts that require BiH to establish a system for granting state aid, i.e. the organisation of one such body, and that is indeed the case, starting with a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that provides for such an obligation for a member of 71. The Interim Agreement as part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Article 36 defines the same thing. The CEFTA, a multilateral agreement, also requires its own Article 21. Finally, the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of Southeast Europe foresees that. You can see how many international obligations we're dealing with by passing one of these laws. So all the competent entity and state bodies were involved in the very creation of this law. The co-ordinator was certainly the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, there were also a significant role given by the BiH finance and vault ministries, the Ministry of Justice, here are my colleagues and I can confirm this, entity finance ministries and entity ministries of industry and energy. And here, at the last working group session, I personally invited Mrs. Paola Panpalona, she is head of the BiH Department at the European Commission in Brussels. She said, "Yes, this is acceptable in the part in which it should meet these European standards and harmonize those regulations relating to this area. You did it. How and how you will organize the functioning and decision-making of the Council, it is up to you, because AKI does not simply know some provisions or order anything imperial." And here's why when I proposed this law on the Council of Ministers when it comes to, let me say, the issues of two issues, the decision-making method and the way of funding, I only offered option solutions. The Council has determined on this first decision-making method to be as with the Competition Council, means that the roof makes six out of seven and six votes are needed for the decision, which means at least one vote from each of the constituent peoples. I still think that... when it comes to financing the Council that it is simply logical to sort it out in the same way as with the Fiscal Council, because it is a good practice that the Council is funding 47 in principle one third, 30%, 30%, 30%, 30%, because I don't see if something works in an institution at the Fiscal Council so that no one who tries to form according to this law does. I think, from the very discussion of your MPs, there are a lot of reasons for optimism, I appreciate those who comment on this law. It is certainly possible that a thousand things could have been better done and arranged, but not in BiH, and not at this time. This is responsible for the hard ceiling in terms of compromise. To show it that way, I remind you again, and the way to decide on the Council of Ministers. So I ask you to have a lot of understanding and to support this law. All those who claim that very few countries are wrong in this law, precisely because this will be one body at BiH level co-ordinating, precisely because it will be the only body to communicate with the European Commission and no one else will. Exactly because the Council of Ministers will appoint two members to this body and what will now, depending on how you decide, with bh. The level of this advice is to be financed, whether fully or as a percentage of 30%. Also, all those who claim that there are few entities here, i.e. that it is a transfer of jurisdiction, are responsible for their mistakes, because the implementing bodies, or bodies in charge of implementing this law and of control, while.... the council is in charge, namely, entity governments or their respective finance ministries. So much, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6703	Thank you. Let's move on with the discussions. Dear Member Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6704	Thank you, Chairman. In this way, at the 7th session of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, which I am also a member, we discussed this proposal for a law on the state aid system in BiH and the principles of this law were unanimously adopted. In August 2011, the Council of Ministers laid down the proposal for a law establishing a legal framework for the control of state aid and the establishment of an institution or body to approve State aid and to determine the return of State aid unlawfully granted. Let me remind you that without this law, we are violating the following principles: this is the Interim Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community and BiH, as well as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. The importance of adopting this law would be this: this is one of three conditions for our country to gain EU candidate status and this law would ensure a more systematic principle of the division of taxpayers' money in BiH, and would focus money on economically neglected regions, which would effectively establish a balanced economic development in BiH. I think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6705	Thank you. The replica or correction of the wrong allegation has a distinguished MP, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6706	Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to ask the minister, so I wanted to make sure that while the minister was behind the pay phone, then I accidentally applied for the discussion, and then there won't be a replica... turn off the discussion and then the train passes, is there? _________(?) Thank Beriz. [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. Comrade Belkić, we'll have that in mind next time. So, the minister said there were two issues. I mean, let's get this straight. There were two issues, a way to decide and a way to finance, in the end. And the questions are solved by deciding how it is but also by funding as it is. What you said was your personal opinion. I have so realized to you that you think that you can do otherwise, but in the law as a compromise is what is written in the law. About that, just so I understand. Is that so?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6708	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6709	No, not the Minister. Wait a minute. You sent the law to the Council of Ministers, right? And the law came to the Council of Ministers in this text as it came, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6710	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6711	Wait a minute, please, let's ask a question. Well, obviously, we should've given the Minister the end of the line, and that means we're still discussing it. It takes ministers to seek word again, to clear things up after Mr. Džaferović, so you will get the word. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6712	So, as far as I understand it, the minister, because there's been some confusion now, I mean, we got one text, and the minister says he thinks he can do it differently. I mean, this is a serious thing, because if it were thought that this could be different when it comes to funding, the law probably wouldn't have come here today at the Parliamentary Assembly. Just as if the decision was meant to be different, he wouldn't come. I'm asking the minister to explain this thing, so we know that. Is this, therefore, the thing that went through the Council of Ministers came from the ministry and we got it as representatives as a result of the compromise in BiH. 49 So much, thank you. How else could the law, be careful, the law for several years is not on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and is put on the Council of Ministers? That tells me that a deal has been reached and I know that an agreement has been reached in BiH. And not now, here, let's explain this thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6713	Thank you. I ask Ismet Dervoz and Honorary MP Saša Magazinović, as well as your replicas in terms of the Minister's question, to listen to them, and to give the minister an answer. They did. Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović, question of the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6714	No, one sentence only. So, on the trail of this, it's a little vague for me now, too, since I got different information when it comes to Council of Ministers' work and deciding on this law. So I would ask you when you answer to your colleague Džaferović, just to say how you decided both the result at the end and the vote on the final text of the law that came before us, as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6715	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister, do you have a need to respond, please? Dear Minister Mladen Zirojević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6716	Well, I really understood this question and the intention of both honourable MPs, what the next one means. Here,... were, to put it this way, two issues, a way to decide and a way to fund the Council. Now I don't know, I've been asking myself how common it is for me to send the draft law with an option solution (a) and a b). I got consent and, in order to make the more transparent decision-making, it went away. On the first, to say the issue, it is a decision-making process, unanimously the Council of Ministers has decided to go, that most of the six members of the Council are making a decision, not with four, as it was a proposal of members of the Federation working group, and in unanimity, there was almost no debate at all. We went to the second question with seven, three elected ministers from the Serb people, so we, too, had the view that this law, this council should be financed by 30:30%. Now, I understand what you're saying. So that's where someone made the Council of Ministers compromise, I don't see any reason why someone here doesn't compromise. But I also don't see the problem that I'm as a resolute minister and as a legislator of this bill. And now it's up to you to decide. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 9:1, Minister Halilović was 'against'. 50 __________(?) You've been in? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6719	Wait a minute, please. Minister, did you fail? Yes, it is. Dear Ismet Dervoz, correction of the wrong quote, replica, what's this all about?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6720	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, it's not even the correcting of the wrong quote, but rather, let's say, the correction of the way in which we could begin to function in this respected home. Can we do better? The question has been asked, yes. He can always do better. How about upstairs? We prove this regularly in all our sessions and in the way we turn the things we have done and we return steps moved back to BiH in anything that can be considered an agreement that is significant for this country. I will first say that we are constantly talking about three conditions. This law is, you'd say, the only real condition. We are asked to make a credible effort, and the census Sejdić-Finci a recommendation that is very important for a number of reasons, that we do not elaborate on them here now. As this law is what it is, then I welcome all the efforts that have been made to present it in this form after so many years to this home. I also welcome the reflections of all of us, each of us has the right to, despite some things being brought already on some body as a proposal, we can consider that there should be some further clarifications, but we do not have the right to return the processes when they are brought and put before us in a way that represents a certain step forward for BiH and for those whom we all ultimately serve, which are citizens of BiH. I plead to all my colleagues that the importance of this law is understood in exactly its original form, which is that this is a condition that BiH can move on. Can he be any better, let's show it, gentlemen, when we finally pass some law, and give him a chance to live. Let's not keep returning some processes to the beginning, because then we'll always be in a position not to give, we don't give BiH a chance here to move forward or try to move forward. Thank you very much once again to this ministry and all colleagues who understand the importance of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6721	Thank you. Your Honor, are you? I'm not worried, just for everyone's sake. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6722	Two, I'm counting myself, don't count me, let me go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6723	Just a minute, please calm the tensions. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6724	He has a chairman who counts. It's not your job. I thank the Minister. The minister is correct, so here in the end I realized for the first time, only I want the public to know. I know the complete process. The thing is, so it's quite clear, and I want to thank you for being told here, so of two issues, just so we know, so once they voted 100%, as they say, all of the Council of Ministers unanimously to do so. The second issue was voted in such a way that the Serbian people's ministers did not vote for it, but when it was voted on by the law as a whole, all voted unanimously and supported the law and text that we have ahead of us is the result of a unanimous decision by the Council of Ministers. That's what I wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6725	Thank you. We've got another one registered for discussion. Dear Ambassador Emir Kabil, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6726	Dear President, honourable MPs, I think it's an extremely important law and perhaps one of the key laws. More or less, we all said it was very important. We are all racing here who will be more and more full of Bosnia and Herzegovina's mouth as a state. BiH will be strong and stronger the moment it gets its status. To get that status of accession, as it is called, it is necessary to adopt this law. He's like that. It's better than nothing. What worries me most is that we MPs live outside of real life in BiH. We're talking about some laws and a minimum of the compromise that's missing here. The most important thing for me is that the law goes through. Although he will have very conflicting opinions, he may also have criticism of how he will finance himself, it is a matter on a long stick. That doesn't matter to me right now. It is important for me to send a message to Europe as civilized people that we have the right to status on accession, because as a country, I think we have the right to do so. So I would ask you, even with painful compromises, without emotion, without any big words, to try to solve this problem. I'm afraid we're at a dead end. They say five years of talking about this law, five years of compromises, and now we're stuck with one thing, to be completely open and clear, about funding. We want to finance this way, as Article 9 says, which is: funds for the financing of the Council's work are provided from the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments. Or, in other words, as the Serbian people's MPs have indicated, there are no third things. There's no third thing, if we don't adopt it, this law falls. Then we're in big trouble. If there are no compromises, the message will be much worse than adoption and also the law. So I'm asking you to try and find some kind of compromise. There are no winners here, there are no winners here, there has to be a compromise here, so I'm trying to maybe calm down the tensions because I see MPs feeling so nervous right now, something like that chopped up, and that sucks, life is something else. Life is out of these buildings. Life is a whole other story, unfortunately. Most MPs don't know what life is. Life is a struggle for survival, life is a struggle for health, life is a struggle to get some kind of pension. So I'm asking you to find a human compromise. Because if someone makes a concession, there will be no concessions and compromises immediately on the other side. So I'm asking you to try and find a compromise. Here 52 is only one problem, the problem of revote and the problem of harmonising the financing of institutions that need to implement this law. And it's a stumbling block, and all of our discussion will be too much unless we find a compromise there. Now we need to sit down and make a deal and see that there are no losers or winners, and in that sense I'm discussing. Because this is a condition for BiH's accession status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6727	Honorable Messenger Slavuj Jovičić. Replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6728	Yeah. Ma, it's not directly to the presentation of colleaguesKabil it's to several previous debates. We call for a compromise all the time. So who's here to compromise? Did anyone really here against this law say, "Here, we don't want the law?" I didn't hear. But here, I've only got one left, and as I'm good, I thought in the forecast, I said, 99% of the funding is consistent. What's the problem now? Transferring or the problem is to transfer the burden to representatives from RS, like you are about to finance a third of the RS and immediately to us somewhere, if it is not directly stated in your mind, you are separating something. So whose money is that? Whose budget is the RS? Whose budget is BiH? But as some debaters have said, we have never questioned the work of agencies that are directly financed from the level of the BiH budget, what is their effect. So what now? If we already have the Council and if one third will be financed by the RS, one Federation, one Council of Ministers, whose money is it? The money of everyone in this BiH. We already have one model about the Fiscal Council that's-is-is-is-is-is better than the others. At least it gives guidance as to how we need to correct the mistakes. I'm sure I'll make amendments to that Article 9. And now to call on me to compromise that I give up my amendments, and I'm not an exclusive man, but they're already showing the possibility of this law getting immediate support and passing the procedure. So I didn't grab the RS entity as a pillow and take what I said one-third of the RS funding. Now, that's a compromise. Why don't you accept that, this is just like one call, I can't influence anyone, of course. And why put in a position to drop the law, if you've already heard the minister's argument that there was a revote there? Well, of course, in the final form of the vote, neither could the Serbian people's ministers say we will now vote 'against', so that someone accuses them of breaking the law, but they gave us the opportunity, which is both the business and the legal procedure, that we are fighting here in the best way. Not according to the system of hot potatoes, but understanding. I say, I'll put the amendments right on Article 9 and only one, here, about financing one-third. Insist on them. Will you accept that compromise that you call upon to accept my amendments to pass the law immediately or will accuse me, and I will not give up and, of course, put the law in a position to fall. There's a compromise. Well, it's not the RS that separates itself, but, people, you're only hoarding institutions, we're afraid of it. Is there going to be a new agency that someone's going to finance, and they're not going to give away the results? We've got countless of them. No, I did it a little bit through the initiative to put the debates there once and for all. Come on, there's a compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6729	Thank you. Dear MPs, I have a proposal. So we give up these replicas and false allegations and take a 10 minute break or we start with replicas and false allegations and then take a break at 2:00 for lunch, because these replicas will certainly cause more replicas. Take your pick. 53 You can press your finger to give up these replicas, and we can go like this and only make it at 2:00. Okay, so you're not giving up on the replica. Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6730	Well, it's very short. So I am correcting the inaccuracies of a previous colleague who said the ministers in the Council of Ministers voted in favour of this law, to give MPs a chance to fix it. So that's incorrect. They voted for him because they think he's good or he's not good. And what you said to anyone but you, I didn't hear, so the Council of Ministers left the law, knowing it wasn't good, but that's who it is, we'll fix it. And secondly, two things were in this law disputed and you said it well. Way to decide and finance. And neither one of those two things was a consistent attitude. Compromisely those who were against this kind of decision-making voted for a decision which you will admit is not quite common, is it? In order to then, the other thing, and they are tied to each other, that in other things, which is a way of funding, there is no support to the same extent that it was a support for a compromise decision on the vote within the body itself. So this six out of seven, so it's part of the compromise, and it's not because they're happy to decide six out of seven,... so everyone in the Council of Ministers voted, but because it's part of the compromise. However, the second part of the compromise is obviously not respected. But what's good is that today we'll obviously support this, regardless of personal opinions, so we'll see to the second round what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6731	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Emir Kabil, reply to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6732	Well, I just want to replicate to Mr. Jovic. When I say compromise, I don't just think about the other side that has to make a compromise. I'm talking about all MPs that they must compromise, including me, even though I don't think so. So that's what's important to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6733	Thank you. Break 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6734	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to take your positions. 54 We move to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorist Activities, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security The BiH Council of Ministers submitted the bill in parliamentary procedure 2.9.2011. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 19.9.2011. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Committee responsible delivered its opinion on 20.10.2011 and did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Commission. Dušanka Majkić applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6736	So what this commission has done is contained in the Joint Commission Report. I would like to say a few words as to why such is the Commission's report. So, unlike the earlier case, when we had a very great urge from the Minister and the minsitarstvo to come up with a proposal for a solution, well, in this case we have a law made in a narrow circle of people who are prone to the minister and that absolutely beyond that circle he didn't care what other levels thought about it. I'll remind this home to Article 75. Unique rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions, "Official Messenger", number 11/05 (for those they write), have established the obligation to consult with all the institutions to which the law applies. And another thing that's about Article 16. Rules for consultation for the making of legal rules, ‘Official Messenger’, number 81/86, which prescribes that all entities subject to the provisions of the law in question are consulted. I will remind you, those who have been in Parliament for a long time, that at the time of visa liberalisation, we have had the same situation around the Ministry of Security which for a year and a half did not want to adopt any amendments to the laws that were in the procedure and that in the end, when BiH threatened to receive the threat of visa liberalisation, that at one conference, the ministerial conference, all amendments were adopted and that we received laws as soon as possible. So, this tradition, which the Ministry of Security had at the time, it continues and this ministry and the minister personally are not interested in anyone's attitudes to whom the law applies. What exactly is the reason why and what does this bill really mean? So the Ministry of Security has the ambition to take away from the SIPA Financial Intelligence Department and says that in its work so far, it has failed to fulfil its obligations in a satisfactory manner and citing that it is an organisation and authority and efficiency, which is not true. A real failure that can be said to be evident, but the real failure of the SIPA Financial Intelligence Department, the non-compliance of the BiH Criminal Law with the Council of Europe conventions on washing, searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenues obtained by crime or the 2005 Warsaw Convention. 55 In Article 9. The Convention is prescribed that each Party Party should ensure that prior or at the same time sentence of a person for a criminal offence in the process of obtaining is not a prerequisite for giving a verdict to be found guilty of money laundering. Therefore, for this very reason and an inadequate crime of money laundering in the BiH Criminal Law, we have an unsatisfactory number of processed cases of the crime of money laundering. Also, a weak contribution from the Financial Intelligence Department to the discovery, research of illegally acquired money and co-operation with the SIPA Criminal Investigation Department cannot be said to be in oraganation, systematisation and jurisdiction, but to failing to adopt a law on the confiscation of acquired assets for which BiH has failed to adopt it, but yes, the RS and we have and are acting on it. I must also say that the provisions of the bill do not comply with the principles of the Strategy and the Action Plan for the Prevention of Money Laundering adopted by the Council of Ministers at the 100th session of 30.9.2010. Therefore, the Ministry did not comply with any such document, which he was obliged to adopt. In addition, the bill is not in line with the recommendations and remarks of the report on the third round of BiH's detailed check on the fight against money laundering and financing of terrorist activities, adopted by the Council of Europe Committee. Finally, this proposal is set up by a new Financial Intelligence Agency as a new institution, with the Ministry of Security, instead of a co-ordinating function between security agencies, to get a new additional function for which we cannot possibly accept it. So it must be clear because it is obvious that the examples so far have not shown the Ministry of Security that working in this way, in such a non-transparent way, do not instill trust and will not help BiH with the adoption of new laws. And then, on the Commission, I said, every time the Ministry decides to make a law in a group of three people, and he's not interested in the opinion of those to whom he's going to apply, he's not going to get a pass on that law. So we won't support the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6737	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6738	As far as we're concerned, we'll support him in his first reading. I could also agree with some of the things Mrs. Majkić brought out here, but it would take us far away if we now analyzed why things didn't happen with Criminal Law, why we didn't agree with these conventions, why we didn't adopt a law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property, etc. So it's not my intention to get into it, but here, so we'll back this up. But I would ask in the future when these reports from the committees are heading towards Parliament, respecting what is written here, to avoid this term, or the term that the law was passed at the Council of Ministers meeting by voting, or without... So there is no voting, there is a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, there is a Council of Ministers Act and it is precisely there that decisions are made, when decisions are made by simple majority, when they are made by qualified majority, etc. I don't mind if it is considered important to specify which ministers from which people on the Council of Ministers were against, but there is no notion of revote in terms of business and in terms of the Council of Ministers' Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6739	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6740	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Majkić's opinion and we support the Commission's negative opinion, the essence of this law scientifically, means its parts that we really need and which are related to meeting FATF's recommendations and parts concerning the obligations of those who need to report suspicious transactions, the essence of this law, however, I think lies in the extraction of the Financial Intelligence Department at the Financial Intelligence Agency. The bill promoter failed to convince me that this was a good solution. It is explained that the poor contribution of the Financial Intelligence Department to the business that should be done is due to their having had a very poor co-operation with the Criminal and Investigation Department within the SIPA. I'm surprised if that's how it works and if they've done so badly, why have we adopted the SIPA report? How is it that the SIPA reports went through? Then they should have fallen. Furthermore, in the report, the MANIVAL Committee of Things is not at all, of course, they find grudges and countries in the region all have grudges, but nowhere does no recommendation say that the problem in positioning the Financial Intelligence Department. The problems are these, arising from the lack of results, what Mrs. Majkić said. Next, I ask, if we single out the Financial Intelligence Agency now, and there will be state officials, not police officers, and if they had bad co-operation with the Criminal Department when they were under the same roof, how will they have good co-operation, when in one agency, finansijsko-babještajan intelligence, it becomes literally an analytical department and should co-operate with the krivično-istražni Intelligence Agency, which he can't co-operate with right now? Then how will they cooperate when they are differently positioned? The other thing, in the world there, I mean there's a little bit of reading about getting ready for this session, these four models of organization of financial intelligence, but the kind of model that I've been suggesting around here I've never seen before. Developed European states position this financial and intelligence position with the ministries of police. It's in Germany, Austria, the U.S., and, I don't know, the U.S., Canada up there, they have these financial-intelligence administrative agencies that are positioned at the Treasury Ministry, at the central banks, but what we're suggesting is that an agency like this be the administrative unit of the Ministry of Security, that's the kind of solution I haven't found anywhere yet that exists. I'm afraid the aim of this law is, by this law, I don't want to accuse the promoter of being his goal, but I think two things would be achieved. The first thing is to destroy the Financial Intelligence Department, and the second thing is to enable the abuse of very confidential data, so where we fail to prove someone's guilt in a court of law, and we know what was done here and that people were found guilty before the trial and, when proven innocent, they are guilty. Now imagine, when we have in the current positioning of financial intelligence as a police body. The police body, whatever it is, it's still a stiff body where there's some kind of-- that kind of control. When we move it, when it's out of control, when we have people who have access to accounts around the world of BiH citizens, so anyone will be able to follow how innocent they want it, when all the media shows up to him how much money he spent today, where he had lunch, etc. So this law, I'm afraid, would allow abuses of very, very sensitive data, and I'll tell you, I mean, that better colleagues know than I do that before, before this reform, before 2004, that it was positioned by the finance ministries in entities. And as far as I know, the finansijski Intelligence Department hasn't even gotten a database today that entity financial-57 intelligence from the Federation. So, and for a long time, a solution has been sought and it has proved that for our terms, for our arrangement, the current solution to the positioning of the Financial Intelligence Department is the best possible solution and I think that's the way to stay. And therefore this bill will not, for that reason, mean exclusively because of this new positioning of the Financial Intelligence Department, will not get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6741	Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6742	Dear Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to read the law, to see its contents and we can agree or disagree with the content of the law, but the law needs BiH, the law means stepping up and improving practices in this very important area, a very sensitive area, and, according to the information I have, the law has passed all possible procedures that should have been passed and the ways in which the drafts are made, after that drafts, and here are the draft laws. That's why I think this law should be supported. However, today we are not in a position to support or support him at all, we today have a negative opinion of the Joint Commission. And I don't think this home should accept a negative opinion from the Joint Commission. This should go back to this committee and then get out of any aversion, but it seems to me that there is that here too, sitting in the Commission and then talking, to see what it is that needs to be fixed in the law, what it doesn't need to be, to invite people and to talk about this law. We have not yet come to the Commission's position to discuss the content of the law itself. I fear that when it comes to the laws that come from the Ministry of Security, just because Minister Sadik Ahmetović is, there are certain prejudices among individual members of the Commission. This is sad what I say, but it's my feeling, it's out of behavior, that's what we can see, and that's what we can see all the time. That's what I was talking about here in the House. Sadik Ahmetović may like it or not like it, he may be antipathetic or likable, but he is the Minister of Security and we should act in accordance with that fact and that the laws we have here in Parliament are thus considered. It seems to me that needlessly and in the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, this line is being introduced, they are being poisoned, but if it continues like this, we will probably have to talk about this subject of some sort in front of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6743	Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6744	So, all I said is I'm standing still and here's the obvious fact that I don't think just me, here's my colleague, Aleksandra Pandurević, speaking in a similar way. I'm sure the others could talk, too. As the minister refers to the competent commission, he says that we have taken down certain points of the agenda three times because we were unable to secure his presence. So, a commission that is competent to exercise parliamentary oversight over the defence and security sector cannot perform its 58th post because the minister simply does not respect this commission. So his disrespect is manifested by his lack of presence when he is obliged to attend. As the law passed, here's the example that no one in RS knew about this law to prepare. So you decide to transfer one delicate jurisdiction, take it from the SIPA and transfer it to the Ministry that has two hundred people in charge of coordination. Imagine you're an institution of the Ministry coordinating with two hundred people. And you don't care at all about anything outside the circle of his ministry says about it. So how can you expect support? I said a moment ago, this is all the opposite of what Minister Zirojević was sitting here, here for so long, speaking in an attempt and effort to reach the bill. So the minister has to show good faith, if he's not already interested in the position of the entity we come from, and he's expecting our votes, so please tell me how do you think that's possible? At least he was supposed to show a gentleman, even if he wasn't interested, he should have shown. I'll ask that RS what he thinks, even if he doesn't do... based on that no change. We're going to have to learn to ask, first to respect procedures, I said two things he predicted in the procedures themselves, and he had to consult, and we're going to have to learn that if we want the law to pass, we're going to have to provide the widest discussion about it and that all those to whom the law applies.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6745	Replica, Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6746	The work of Parliament's committees is governed by the Rules of Procedure, and it is nice to see that when the laws are discussed, proposals coming from the Council of Ministers' ministries that then a representative of the Council of Ministers comes from the ministry. It could be an assistant, it could be the head of the sector, it could be the deputy minister, it could be the minister, it could also be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, depending on the situation to the situation. I am the chairman of the Constitutional Commission here is the second term and the right to tell you that it rarely happens that the minister and the most frequent minister who comes to the meetings of this committee is Mr Nović and I thank him every time, because he comes directly and personally to the session of this committee, but when he does not come, and someone from his ministry, assistant or deputy or head of the sector, as well as from other ministries, we sit and work. Here's Minister Čolak who also knows how to come to the Commission's meetings, but when he doesn't come, the assistant comes, and that's no reason why we don't work. Since co-worker Majkić became the chairman of the commission, the Joint Defence and Security Commission has insisted that the minister must be at the session, and that is Minister Sadik Ahmetović. And he's gone once, he's gone twice, whether they're justified or unwarranted reasons to ask him, but he's got his deputy. And every time we have the conditions to work, but every time we take the agenda off, it's because the minister didn't come, just because, even though the deputy sits there. And then an invitation is sent, watch this, a representative of the Ministry of Security is called and then the chairman signs the invitation and calls for a session of the Joint Commission of Ministers Sadik Ahmetović and Deputy Minister Mije Krešić. So he calls the minister and the deputy. And when I saw it, by then I could perhaps be a little more free in my thinking, I actually realized that Mrs. Majkić had a problem that Sadik Ahmetović was the minister of security. Besides the minister, she's calling the deputy. It's never happened anywhere. That's what I'm talking about. If that's not the case, say it, here's 59 I've seen it. And now there's a problem no minister, no work of this commission. It has the work of the Commission and the Commission will work. I can't have ministers arriving at all committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6747	Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6748	My colleague Džaferović, I remind you that you are running a Constitutional Legal Commission that gives an opinion on the constitutional basis of the law. I also remind you that the Defence and Security Commission is carrying out parliamentary oversight of the defence and security sector and it cannot do so and that job to fulfill its basic task, and that any minister should come in between flights. Secondly, it is known that the deputy minister is very often of a very different opinion from Minister Ahmetović. So he has the right to the Deputy Minister to state his position. The Commission is not closed, they can come and say all those who have something to say when it comes to the defence and security sector. So don't think that where... is the minister from your party that no one has the right to speak anymore. That's not how it can be. Because they're not in this country by chance, there's no minister and deputy. It is not by chance we will respect it whenever, so Mr Krešić came whenever it was required of him. But it's become groundless that he's practically responsible for this ministry. The minister has to show up once. So three times, e, can't bring this commission a safety report in BiH, and the minister doesn't care and he doesn't care. He must be present when it comes to such points.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6749	The Republic has Borisav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6750	I'm just going to correct a few allegations, given that I'm a member of this committee and I have a need above all not to be an arbiter in this whole, to say, an event, but first and foremost as an MP and as a man to make my impression with what I could see on the Commission. It is obvious that this commission is working very dynamically and very interestingly. But what I can say about the Honorable Minister that the way he treats and addresses the President of the Commission is for me, he is an institution like the Commission's institution and each of us present members of the Commission – a way of addressing him, a threat to the finger, and that is something that I hope is past to the president of this Commission. First of all, it is about the President of the Commission, the People's Parliament, or the MP of the Parliamentary Assembly and one lady, and it is about a minister who is headed by a very important ministry, so that this example illustrates the character of the Minister in question. I'm not here, I repeat once again, arbiter, but as a man, I mean that the way I treat the commission is the way I've seen it, and I've reacted to it. You know, the Minister of Safety can't use his finger to threaten anyone, and least of all the presidents of this committee, whatever he is and whatever he's characterized by anyone. Next, I think that, as a rule, ministers should also be present at Parliament's meetings and at committee meetings. And this minister obviously avoided coming to these sessions. So that 60 is something that my impression of this workshop from Tesla and earlier sessions of this commission. It is an important issue of security, especially when you look at the International Crisis Group report, and there is a need for serious debate, not for threatening messages from the minister towards anyone, and at least for the President of the Commission as it is. Of course, I don't defend anyone here or attack anyone. If I'd like to criticise, I have a lot of reasons to criticise the representatives of the SNSD, but first of all, I want to be principled as a man to say what relations are like within this committee. I must say that you have not been as famous as the Commission's College, or the three of you who need first of all to establish a certain kind of communication, first of all, to be as it expects to be by those who are in this House. I thank you, I had no intention of holding any letter, but I want to say as a man what my impression is in the work of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6751	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6752	Well, you see, Mr. Bojić, then you should ask around a little before you give some qualifications who's celebrated, who hasn't celebrated. This is my third term in the College of the Commission. And I've never encountered situations like this before, so third term. We actually have an attempt to chair this committee itself, and not 12 of us, and of course it can't pass, and I will always object against it, regardless of what I respect and appreciate the efforts of the chairman of the Commission, its agility and the desire for this commission to be at the heart of attention, but the Commission is not her, the chairman, but 12 of us equally: You, me, and you, and all of us together. So that's one thing. Because we are all members of Parliament first, and then we all have one vote at a time both in committees and in Parliament. It's another matter, as far as the Constitutional Commission is concerned. So, the Constitutional Commission, apart from establishing a constitutional basis for all laws, also considers one 70% of all laws as a competent commission. You forgot to say that. And if we were to apply the principle in this commission that the minister must be present every but very minister, it would be much more common for these situations to be removed from the agenda than it has been so far and the commission would not arrive. It's just not possible to do that. Of course, ministers should try to be at Parliament's meetings and that is our position, our conclusion. Finally, another thing that will apply to the work of this commission and Parliament. It depends on you, Mrs. Majkić, on how much your power is in this House, which is 1/42 and nothing more. Don't act like it's a 1/1 power. It's power 1/42, and so is mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6753	A colleague of Živković's, a businessman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6754	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I didn't mean to call, but I can see that people are coming back for the replica, but we've gone outside the agenda. We are not talking here about a law that is on the agenda, but about the work of the Joint Commission and human relations in this committee, and then the parties are starting to mention it. And if we go into replicas of each other, believe me, we're not going to end this point 61 of the agenda. Either you go back to the agenda, or I ask the chairman to take the word when it comes out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6755	I think my colleague Živković made a clear suggestion. Are you giving up any further replicas or colleagues the word has, or the replica Borislav Bojić, but indeed I am asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6756	I am very mild in replicas here in the Parliamentary Assembly and very polite. So that's how I'm going to address Mr. Džaferović. You didn't deny the Minister's threat with your finger, which means it's true. And that's a very important fact for me about the Minister of Security. You know, the Minister of Security who needs to be very different. So that's something I want to tell you in particular when it comes to power and domination, from the position of that minister of showing power and domination and the threat to the finger is a dangerous thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6757	Replica, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6758	a member of this committee. [[no microphone turned on]] Did you see that now?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6759	I'm closing the debate within the 9th point of the agenda. We're taking a break until 3:00. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the work of the 12th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1 18/11, of 8 January 2011 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6762	You see, the chairman, let's say, so the Constitutional Commission has been considering this, there are serious objections to this law that have been heard on this committee, but people have decided to support this in their first reading. I call on the state service, if they are present here, to follow closely the work of this second reading, to search the law well, to examine well, and then to make amendments to this second reading. This is what I needed to say, because people let this happen on the Constitutional Commission even though there were very serious objections to the legal-technical character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6763	Milorad Živković, first deputy chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6764	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members, this is an example when a bad law is passed here in the BiH Parliament, and then every once in a while we have amendments and additions to that law. He's one in a row, he's one of the laws and the Public Procurement Act, so he shouldn't be surprised if we have a change and supplementation of this law in a short time. That's one segment of what I was going to say. The second segment, and when it comes from the Council of Ministers, a proposal to amend and supplement the law, about what we hear daily from ministers that they do not have the opportunity to make order in their ministry, because ministerial assistants are state officials who do not correspond to the Minister and who, according to the State Service Act, are lifelong ministerial assistants, are not given the proposal to amend and supplement the law by the Council of Ministers. Don't let the ministers catch the MPs by the hands and tell them about the problems in the ministry, and you don't have the strength to go to the Council of Ministers and to go with the amendments and additions to the laws that exactly treat that matter. As MPs, we have been trying here in Parliament on several occasions to open the issue, just to meet you, or to meet the efficiency of the state service here in BiH, and it has not worked. And I ask you to propose amendments and additions to the law, which is aimed at the efficiency of this service, you propose amendments and additions to this law. And that's why my proposal is to withdraw until the end of the first reading of this law and go with amendments and additions to the law that will go towards the efficiency of this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6765	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6766	Thank you, Chairman. The State Service Act is certainly a very significant law. However, our Law on State Service, which Mr. Živković also said has changed many times and has changed so far, this is his thirteenth change, I will remind him that only in 2004 has changed four times, shows how legal uncertainty exists in this country. Unfortunately, this has become a practice for us to change laws when we want to solve some personal issues. I'd ask, here we all know the answers to these questions, do we get the best of the competitions for civil servants, for the reception of civil servants? Will this law, this proposal that came before us, reduce corruption? I'm afraid we all know the answers. Neither do we pass our best in competitions, nor is the aim of this law for the employment of civil servants and the choice of executives to be transparent, as it is modern today to say. On the contrary, Article 12 of this law represents purely support for corruption. In the article, in the position (6) to be added, an alternative standard is set up. So come on, please, we need to be consistent. We need to put our attitudes in principle. No state officials from the same institution can be appointed somewhere in the commission in the selection of executives, and somewhere arbitrary from some others. And then what happens in practice? Somewhere, the current executive proposes members of the commission, and then he reports on the competition from his institution, suggests members of the commission from his institution, and somewhere that is not a problem, and somewhere a different solution is chosen to be someone who comes from another institution. So we have to, I think we have to determine ourselves in principle, that we have to establish a unique criterion to know. The other thing is this list of experts. We all know how to form these lists of experts, how they choose. And I think here, too, in that list of experts is a very inconsistencies member that is needed, so we must first define all the important questions regarding that list of experts. How do they choose, in what way, in which area, for what period? It's in this law, so it doesn't even exist in the existing one, but I don't see that the proposer gave us a solution to it. And by the way, this member of the law, it's a member of the 24th current law and 12th amendment and supplement, it's a generator of all the negatives in the state service, of nepotism, corruption, intricacy, and basically we all know here, that we don't lie, that in the state service we want today, which we won't accept, which we won't accept. I'll just remind you of the recent case we've had here. Next, who's doing everything we can in the state service? I regret to say that this law shows. Indeed, someone here can think of us fellow Members of Parliament whatever they want, that we are like this, but must respect the institution of Parliament. Now, as much as the institution of Parliament is respected, it shows what the Director of the Agency is, I don't see him, the ADS, I'm very sorry he's not here, and I also told him that on the Constitutional Commission, what came to us here. In addition to calling and making reference to the Law on Salaries, the Law on Police Officers, and then listing the numbers of official messengers, I ask, now that we change the Law on Salaries, whether we will change the Law on Salaries and the Law on Police Officers and change this law, because we will have to, we will have to supplement the numbers of official messengers. Furthermore, in Article 9 of the amendment and supplement, please just, what kind of construction is being created, says: 'The civil servant has the right to fair and fair treatment in all aspects of human policy and not 64 must be discriminated against regardless of nationality, social origin? etc. Article 10 states, 'This is where the position (2) and the position (3) are added, and the attitude (3) is not from the head. If I didn't go through the details right now, I'm here in every place where I'm told, I don't know the article, here's the numbering of the 41st that's not even in Article 4.a, etc. Furthermore, I don't think I'm saying that there are a whole series of completely pointless members here. Here in Article 6, the position (2) is changed and it reads: 'Paid class as a classification element is determined'; so this is already, this is an absurd norm which, already defined by the Law of Salaries, means something that is completely unnecessary in this law. As far as we're concerned, we have one here, just to find out which one is, I apologize, which concerns publishing a list, it's a member, I think in '18. The Agency shall publish a list of training participants and data on completed training'. I'm just asking if this is in line with the principles of personal data processing? Is this member in line with that? We've got 'Articles 22 and 23 to change'. Article 22 sets a deadline, says: 'The institution is obliged to submit to the Agency a plan of staff fill-up by 30 at the latest. January.' Which is exactly January 30th, which isn't 31st, I think, how to do that to someone. Article 24, here is a particularly interesting point, Article 24 (1) point (f) says: 'In accordance with Article 9(2) of point (c) of the Data Protection Act, an information system for human resources management is being established and implemented in BiH institutions. The system... serves to record personal and official data employed by institutions’, etc., etc., etc. Now, I'm asking, even here I don't see in this proposed solution how will the basic principles of personal data processing be respected? In addition, this is one very bad member, as other than civil servants are processing and collecting data from all BiH institutions. And I'll remind you, when you leave, I went to the Agency for State Services site last night, so I found it, says that the temporary suspension of the HRMS system is not listed, nor why, they just say temporarily stopped. And then you go to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so there you find, I've printed that solution here, you find a solution that forbids the Agency of the State Service to publish this data. So, basically, he's publishing this database. So basically through this member, that's my opinion, trying to legalize something that's said to be illegal. Now, I will no longer enter, I think, the constitutional basis of this law, where the member, I think, I don't know which, the Constitution, which says the Parliamentary Assembly, is passing the laws. But BiH has, under Article III.1. The ustav, its institutions, and it is perfectly normal for officials to work in these institutions, so the constitutional basis is not. I even found the explanation where, now I don't remember which member, he says, "This norm is trying to improve the solution to other special laws." I mean, it's so absurd and ridiculous, it's like, I don't know, salting soup because our roasting is unsalted. We can't, which then doesn't change those laws. What is particularly interesting to me is that this proposal did not occur to anyone to change there the member referring to the exemption from the Law on Public Procurement in the training of officials. I have to say, and here I went to the ADS site, so I saw it as if it meant without obligation to implement the Public Procurement Act, going there to some seminars, education, professional training, as it goes to countries, as if our goal was to join Asian countries, and not European countries, so it goes to these exotic trips that Bog knows how much they cost, according to Singapore, by 65 Malaysia, etc. And at the same time the other day, I accidentally heard in Belgrade that we had been offered some projects for free, and it was rejected from here. And in doing so, I don't know where they go on those exotic trips where the lecturers are chosen, I've heard it's those from the Public Procurement Agency, etc. But I wouldn't really go further into speculation. I think that if we really want to fight corruption and nepotism in the institutions, and we will all, publicly or not, that there are, if we really want to give the best chance, and not give us the best to get out of this country -- we have to pass one quality law on the state service, and I expect all of us here to make every effort to get as good a law as possible. In that sense...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6767	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6768	I'm sorry, I have two conclusions. I'll take it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6769	Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6770	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6771	I'm closing the debate within the 10th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6772	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6773	Well, I guess you're applying to the display as you've been. Mrs Dušanka Majkić has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6774	No, short, a few words to say. I think the proposal..., colleague Pandurević said, well, and that this law really does leave the impression that somehow it was done quickly, that the draftr of the law didn't pay enough attention, and I think there are a lot of us who would have anything to say on that subject. I know very often, I remember that famous sentence by which the government officials say the minister is a little bit more, and mine is eternal. I always remember that no one can punish him as bad and as little as they can do. So that's the first thing that should have changed in this law. So, we have seen that state officials and secretaries, secretaries with special authority and ministerial assistants, and executive officials are the chiefs of the department. And now that I've watched what of these things should be agreed on priority, under one, the Law on State Service with the Constitution of BiH should be harmonised on the provision of a mechanism to protect the national equality of civil servants in BiH institutions. What does that mean today? Now most institutions 66 show that the mechanism is in principle, i.e. it is not met and that, let's say, of the nine ministry secretaries, five of them are from the Bošnjak order instead of three, two are from the order of the Serb people instead of three and two in the order of the Croatian people instead of three. So the parity 3:3:3 has been broken. Furthermore, when electing the Council of Ministers, it is mandatory to provide for the secretary's rotation. Because in four ministries, one minister and secretary are from the same people or deputy minister and secretary. Well, for example, in the Ministry of Security there are two Bošnjak, Minister and Secretary, and one Hrvat deputy minister. Srbin are an existing category. In the Ministry of Communications are two Hrvat, minister and deputy, and one Bošnjak, secretary. And here are the Srbin of the non-existent category. The Ministry of Justice two Bošnjak, Minister and Secretary, excuse me, two Hrvat and one Bošnjak, secretary. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Nowhere. And the Ministry of Defense, but mostly comes down to it, changed that. And in the Ministry of Defence we have two Bošnjak, a minister and a secretary, one Hrvat, a deputy, one Srbin, a deputy, because these are two deputies, we have this harmony only. But what I'm saying is, [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6776	Please don't bother.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6777	I suggest you do this next time and see that instead of Minister Nović at the Ministry of Civil Affairs, you have a colleague who passed through to Parliament and that he is his deputy. So, Minister Nović did not make it, nor did Zirojević make it so there are no others. You can't do that when it comes to Srbin, you can't prove it. There's something else that needs to be coordinated. The Civil Service Act should be harmonised with civil rights and freedoms. And this means that government officials should be allowed to run for the legislative elections. What does that mean? Now the secretaries and ministerial assistants have to resign in order to run for election papers. So they have to leave. On condition they're not elected, they're out of a job. Is that a reason, the way this problem has to be solved? It would be logical to wait whether they were chosen or not, and in that case to resign because they can't be on this and that function. And one more thing, a position on those competition commissions. This is the most amazing thing. It is now happening that an expert associate with one year of internships is choosing an assistant minister or secretary. That's amazing. So, it should be possible for lower levels of government to choose lower levels, and higher levels of civil servants to choose higher levels. So that's a rule that needs to be set. In addition, commissions 67 need to provide a 3:2 parity compared to the institution. So the institution for which it is elected should have 3 members, and 2 members of the Agency for the State Service, which is not the case now, so it is the other way around. So, I'm talking about how many problems there are related to this law. And I don't know if my colleague Pandurević said we should have a public hearing. If she didn't say I suggest that a public debate be organised on this issue and that all good opinions and good solutions related to this law be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6778	Replica, Zijad. Excuse me, the replica has a second vice president.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6779	A lot of good things have been heard here in the debates, good suggestions in which the Law on State Service should be amended. And I truly agree with those who have said that these changes have not touched the essence, and the bottom line is that we get a better quality of state administration. And in any case, I also support these proposals, which have said that the matter of assistants is regulated, because what my colleague Majkić says, they used to say, therefore, the ministers are wintering, and we are permanent. But I have to, I answered the line because of an exact/inaccurate assumption that the ministers are October, and we're permanent, so that someone doesn't replicate now, so thank you very much. My Kolegice Majkić, at the Ministry of Communications and Transport, is a Srbin deputy, which is not from the SNSD, so it counts. Does it count, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6780	I turned around.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6781	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6782	I thank my colleague Ljubić. The replica has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6783	Thank you. I, when I heard these words from my colleague Majkić, I did not think that I would replicate, but here I have a chart, or one scheme of certain places that is contrary to what the lady is saying. Since it's an executive government, I can only tell you that's the case, but it's not about parity. However, another thing that would also make you, I believe that we have a mass of things to look at and redistribute correctly. However, just to tell you one of the data, there is only one Bošnjak in 17 key BiH functions in the area of agriculture. What are we talking about here? 68
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6784	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6785	I, too, have criticised some, first of all, and supported the position of the Board of Directors of BHRT when it comes to the BHRT Director who has six Bošnjak in certain executive key positions. And here we stand that same parity should be. However, both on one side and on all sides, we must fight to make one logical redistribution. I'm sure in the next period I'll get a chance to show it around all the ministries, and I'd like to ask that in the future we make sure that these things don't happen, and hopefully in the second reading, we'll have the opportunity to try to correct all these law anomalies in order to bring these things down to a minimum in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6786	... A Pandurević. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6787	Thank you, Chairman. My replica is Mrs. Majkić. I want to say exactly, I have proposed conclusions, here's to take advantage of where we propose: we recommend in fact the Constitutional Commission to organise a public debate and one conclusion that we ask the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on these Articles 18 and 24 of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6788	I'm sorry, who was the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6789	Well, Dušanka Majkić mentioned me in her discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6790	Nothing, I'm asking for your attention, just to be clear, so the replica is still being misused. Replica, Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6791	Thank you. Well, you can't say it's a replica, but here's an explanation of things. In fact, according to the way we work here in Parliament, we can only organise a public debate once we adopt the law in our first reading. In a public debate after the adoption of the law in the first reading, we can come up with a situation that I said some members were not treated, and then you can't make amendments to members who have not been treated. And so my request and proposal went in the direction that this law should be withdrawn, until the end of the debate in the first reading has the right of the Council of Ministers to withdraw the law, 69 to make a consolidated text after, as we have said, 24 amendments and amendments to the law have never been made, to deliver to the Constitutional Legal Commission which will verify the consolidated text of the law and to propose within 30 days, according to this conclusion that I have made, a proposal to amend and supplement this law which would treat this matter, as well as to the assistants and these members you have spoken of, that, after adoption in the first reading of the law, we may open a public debate and see what else can be corrected. The public debate after the adoption of such a proposal to amend and supplement the laws will not treat the members mentioned here and we will not get the result that we all want here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6792	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6793	As much as I try to talk less today, it's a waste, something doesn't give me today, because I can't stand some things that are being brought out, and they don't, so you can say one thing by half and you can't tell half, so that half is true, and half is silent, it's true again. Look out, all the secretaries in all the ministries were elected on the basis of a public competition, between several candidates, under the rules of the State Service Act and chosen as they were elected and those chosen. And then, several times, the formation of ministers, deputy ministers, of course, by politics, not by public service. And today to look at that thing without saying it, I don't think it's right and it's not right. Secondly, today I see an advocacy to actually change the concept of state service in BiH. We need to say, we want a politicized state service or we're going to state service out of politics. And then it's one big reform. It's not possible to bring the assistants, the secretaries of the ministers into second position without saying that we've changed the concept of state service. If we want to do it, we have to say it, and then it's completely clear and it's known, models know how to do it. This law, and there is Mr. Živković right, so it does not touch any of these issues, it touches some technical issues, in some elements in a clumsy way trying to solve some technical issues. I said that in my discussion, and about which there was a broader talk here. They can be discussed. But for this law to open up a public debate, and then get some solutions, I don't think that's what we should have. We need a project assignment, no public debate, what kind of state service we're gonna do, but let's stand behind it, see who's ready and who's not ready. I don't think we should change, that we should have a depolitical state service and that we should build a law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6794	Replica, Aleksandra Pandurević. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6795	I have to, really. Mr. Džaferović said, he asked if we want a politicised state service. Mr. Džaferović, our state service may not be politicized under the law, but the fact is quite different. So let's not lie here, that party books are a basic condition for admission to institutions, which are our mirror to the outside. What kind of picture, if there's a law coming to us from these institutions like it did, so I wonder what we're sending, I don't know, to Brussels, Washington and all that? Who writes these laws to us? It wouldn't be a problem for us to choose from 100 people who go through the list, let's pick the party key, the first 10, but the problem with us being on the 100 candidates list on the party key is that and the 99th one down to the top one. So our state service is politicized so it can't be more politicized. And there's the key to everything, and that's where we have to look for a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6796	Replica, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6797	You see, colleague, I don't think we understand each other very well. You actually said one opposite in your answer. Your answer says like this, it may not be politicized under the law, but essentially it is. I'm talking about the law, so she's really not politicized, she's legally depolitical, and we have to fight to make it so. And the other thing is an anomaly in practice. You, if you have evidence of what you're saying, bring them out and fight them with the proper implementation of this law. So that's the way. I think BiH still needs a depolitical state service and that this is the concept we started in 2000 and that it should be built. What people don't judge these secretaries now, don't judge those assistants, don't lead, it's another thing, it's special now, it's a big debate field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6798	Replica, Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6799	... The feeling that you didn't understand what you were talking about at all, and you and Mrs. Pandurević are talking about holes in the law that are clearly there, and we're here to create a situation to fix it. [[no microphone turned on]] And I think we're all, or that we should all be on the same path to get into a situation where politics doesn't run the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6800	The word has a colleague, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6801	Well, Mr. Chairman, I have a slightly different view regarding most of the discussions concerning this amendment law and the addition of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. So today we are discussing the principles of this law, this proposal. I am 71 aware that many are dissatisfied, generally talking about the position and way of hiring civil servants in BiH institutions. But I must honestly say that I have not seen any more serious remarks on the text of the proposed amendments and additions. It is here to be fair and to say that the Single Rules have therefore been applied and that the Office for the Legislatives of the Council of Ministers has done this job responsibly. When we talk about 300 other things, that's the other part of the story now. I don't know how we'd be having a discussion right now, a public debate on these proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6802	Dear Ljubić, if you could have some attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6803	which improves the law. It doesn't exist, so there's no reason for these changes to be discussed and the law to be improved. But also, there is no ideal law, and this is the most sensitive segment, which is constantly looking for certain changes and additions. I will say one thing that I consider, too, and which in my opinion is a great achievement of this law, so here is Article 20 in the proposal to amend Article 54. The law, the basic law, proposed a disciplinary measure to avoid the conclusion of the House of Parliamentary Assembly's reports on the financial business audit of the institutions. I believe this is a very significant achievement and respect for the conclusions of this home. Now, when we talk about the law that's no longer right in it, who's being employed, whether it's political, it has absolutely nothing to do with it, I'm responsibly saying, with these amendments and the additions to the law. I mean, then we'd have to discuss the law as a whole, the abuses, the disrespect of sublegal acts and something else. So, what I'm saying is that there are also positive things in this law, I don't have, I don't care who suggested it, I think there are positive developments in improving the law. No one can talk about what it's used for, so you have to use the legal act you're calling on to apply some... law, you have no other way of saying it differently. In our language, you have neither our constitution nor the law nor the legislation, I don't know, countries like the UK or the United States. You must refer here to the original document on the basis of which you will use it. Changes and additions will follow that. That's how much I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6804	The word is from Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6805	Well, I didn't mean to answer either, I'm not in the mood, but there's got to be something to say about this debate that
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6806	I'll just ask you to listen to your colleague. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6807	...shows that we don't know management at all. We, not only here in this institution, have driven the profession and knowledge out of the administration at all. At the beginning of our term here I said that management is a large area seeking reform, there's a gentleman... right, when he says what concept of administration we want. This one we can't keep, we have to change. Politics cannot choose experts in the administration,...one of the basic postulates of the administration is the continuity of employment. You will find this in all EU materials, employment continuity, professionalism, ability, or possession of certain skills. So, that kind of administration should be, unfortunately not. What's going on here? The government here in all of BiH, so not only in these institutions, so-called ...the system, the policy patrol system over the administration. We can't have management, management normal, when politics choose administrative officials. Therefore, management should be allowed experts to choose, i.e. to keep politics out of the selection of management officers. There are procedures, there's a state service agency here that has a legal procedure for choosing. That's how it exists in entities. So, a reform of the administration has begun, but it has stopped, it has stopped under the most important people who have said, so please, we need to take management under our control, what will there, what continuity of employment. Every minister when he comes not only to change the secretary but to change the entire echelon in his vault, he brings new people, and that's why we have an unprofessional administration. So, the basic principle besides this professionalism and expertise is the continuity of employment. So there is no re-election for ministerial assistants, ministerial assistants are elected permanently. That's not true, that's the first I've heard, that the minister has no authority over the ministerial assistants, then it's some kind of stunt established here. The minister is at the head of the hierarchical structure and all his officers are subordinated to him. So, I don't know, I haven't read that part of the law, if that's what it's like, it's something radical, and I don't know who invented it, whose masterpiece it is. Because absolutely the minister has to have control over his resources, and that's why he has to have personal control. So if we want to, that's why I would be the same to take this part of the law off the agenda; if we want to do something in the administration, then we need to approach the amendment of almost all the regulations in the administration. There is the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and the Law on General Administrative Procedure here is called the Law on Administrative Procedure. There is no Law on Administrative Procedure, there is a Law on General Administrative Procedure. Because there's a special administrative procedure, so it's a shame to see other people who understand themselves in the administration. So there are many, many things that need to be changed and which, of course, need to be brought into line with European standards. We should take a look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6808	Replica second, second deputy chairman Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6809	The truth is, what Kunić says is that it is not logical that the minister has no influence, no control over the assistants, but it is also true that the minister would sanction one bad-doing assistant, he must give him a negative opinion within two years. What's this about? The minister comes, at least it takes every half a year to see who he's working with and who he's working with, then a year to track one of his assistants, then give him a negative opinion first, then wait another year to give him another negative opinion. And since ministers, as they say, are October, the end of the mandate is already there and then, in the end, more or less, the minister goes along one line of less resistance and leaves the 73 problem for those who will succeed him. That's a fact, so it can be intervened here, I'm sure there can be a solution that won't mean politicisation, so professional services, but which responsibility and quality will generate in the ministries at the very least that that time of evaluation has been reduced to half a year, we've already made a major shift, but I don't seem to have seen it in the law. Therefore, these things can be corrected.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6810	Replica, Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6811	You see, when I said that the minister has all the instruments, he has all the instruments, not only to evaluate, he evaluates twice a year, so he can give two negative opinions and then initiates a resolution procedure. But the minister has a mechanism to initiate a disciplinary procedure. So you have the opportunity to initiate a disciplinary procedure at any time. Are you using these mechanisms? No, I don't. So it's a regular trip, so you can sort out an officer... no problem at all. Well, then, we'll live in the wild and in wild society, not in an organized community.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6812	...that no more reported and I'm closing the debate within the 10th point of the agenda. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Report on activities on the project "Autoput at Corridor 5c" and plan of next activities, material of the BiH Council of Ministers The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the report on 29.7.2011. On 5.10.2011, the Transport and Communications Commission organised a Public Discussion on the subject: The "Autoput to Corridor 5c" project – an intensification of the realisation of planned activities. It delivered its opinion on 26.10.2011. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed to the House to adopt it. Also, Dom's proposals and conclusions, total of four, I won't read them, and you've got them all on the bench. Also, on 25.10.2011, we received information on the settlement of issues of disputed parts of the highway on Corridor 5c which was not discussed by the Transport and Communications Commission. You've all received information, I'm opening a debate on the report. A colleague, Božo Ljubić, is the first to appear for discussion. Here you go. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6814	My colleagues and colleagues, I have come forward for a number of reasons, alone here at Parliament's meetings and asked a parliamentary question and submitted an initiative to discuss this issue, while at the same time I am a member of this Communication and Transport Commission. The Corridor Highway 5c project is certainly the most important project for BiH, I would say, the first half of this century, because it is 336 km of this corridor that passes through BiH. But also a very important project for all of Europe, because... the EU group put it in Helsinki in pan-European corridors and especially important for northeastern Europe, worse than Ukraine and down south to the Mediterranean. In these ten years during which we are dealing with this project, we have passed from the full denial phase of this project by international financial institutions to the full acceptance phase, and here I want to give recognition to the previous Council of Ministers meeting chaired by Mr. Terzić and the Minister of Communication was Mr. Dokić, who have prepared us also for the inheritance of the very quality project and study documentation in which the world's most relevant institutions participated. That is the case, she also confirmed the presentation of the project in Brussels on 25.3.2007, when finally the international community and international financial institutions broke down to finance the project. Since then, contracts have been concluded in value, credit arrangements of about 200m euros, signed. Since then, this meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Communications and Transport and through this Parliament has led to a total of 0,10 KM from a litre of fuel being allocated to Corridor 5c, which is at an annual level of around 120 million marks, so for a total of four years, since the decision was made in half of 2009, it is another 500 million KM. Therefore, this composition, the existing composition of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Communications and Transport, in which part I participated, generated funds and around a billion marks, made available for this project, and another 500 million marks are in the negotiation phase, and this all allows for us to have already provided funds to build around 70 km of highways according to estimated values, of course the tender always says the real value. And if we include these 500 million marks that are from our own resources, that's a lot more. But there's always a problem here in this country. There have been problems that, I say, are political. The first problem occurred in 2008, when it tried to change the course of Corridor 5c at Blagaj, in a way that shifts the position of the route north by 4 km, it extends that part of the route by 3 km, and in Počilje, because of the conflict with the historical monument, it shifts an additional 2.5 km, and these are the two disputed points on the course of Corridor 5c. However, one who believed that only two disputed points appeared to be wrong, and absurdity, continues. And very soon it will prove that there is a third dispute point. Here in my hands is the material that says this, I will quote: 'At the 20th session of the Federation Government, held on 4.10., the Federation Government has established an amendment to the draft spatial plan of the area of special features of importance for the Federation of BiH Autoroad on Corridor 5c, which reads: A correction of the established spatial plan of the area of special features of importance for the Federation of BiH Autoroads on Corridor 5c in the division of the Bjelopoljska koli Mostar - north to variant 3 of the graphic picture that is attached to this amendment.' It's right here on this paper. But look at the explanations. That's what he believed or not for Ripley. He says this: 'Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning, as the holder of the Spatial Plan of the Federation of BiH, 5.9. held a public debate in a brief synthesis of the basic concept of the development of the Federation of BiH. After a presentation was carried out which included a segment of road infrastructure by the local community, I read local communities, 'and other public debate participants were made observations on the.... Roads on 75 Corridor 5c in the Bjelopoljska dolina', and listen, 'from the additional three options offered by the plan-makers, the local community supported variant 3 with an additional request to be decided' etc. etc. Well, look, gentlemen, that's not how rural roads are done, so the local community is changing its decision by the Pan-European Corridor on which they are... 10 years of the largest expert head of this region and the world, after all the institutions of the municipality, the city, the Federation canton and the state gave their views, from an idea solution, an idea project, the main project on which loans were granted, so an amendment signed by Nermin Nikšić is proposed. The Federation knows who it's about. Look, this is a way of not actually doing anything. And that is why I want to draw attention here and the public debate has been very successful, very thorough, very professional and public debate, to be fully open, has given support to BiH institutions, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament through these conclusions that the Commission for Transport and Communications has unanimously adopted should be supported. But what I want to say here is, Hungary and Croatia through which this corridor is passing have either finished or are already ending their paths. Hungary, as far as I know, is over. Croatia has finished most of it. Today, just these minutes probably, at the Croatian Parliament there is a debate on two shares of the middle-north border, including the bridge on the river Savi near Svilaj and Ploče - the southern border of Bijac took credit from the EBRD and the European Investment Bank and will complete the corridor in time. And what is the dynamics in BiH? In 2017, the entire corridor should be finished. However, here in the Federation, thanks to the state ministry of communication and transport, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament are provided and the funds. 150km of the main project, which includes a segment passing through RS, has been developed. The largest section of the road passing through RS should be finished in 2012. I do not see at this point, to use the European dictionary, credible sources of funding to end this, although the main project is finished. I'd like to appeal to the entity authorities to finish their share. There's another natural problem in the Federation. In the Federation, therefore, here is a completely volunteering attempt to change the route because I cannot take the impression that actually someone does not want a part of this corridor to be built, because just part of the Mostar corridor north - south border, the relationship with Croatia should be over in 2012. I'll figure it out here, too. Of course, I ask my colleagues to support these conclusions adopted unanimously by the Transport Commission, and in this way to enable, in a way, further and in charge of the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Council of Ministers and all entity institutions to complete their work on time, but I will not miss this too. 150km of the project has been completed, so as far as it's concerned, the construction of the tuning can begin. The money from the loan arrangements for 70 km is secured, from this section for fuel and contracted funds and for the other 80 km. Therefore, if the country does not have a new 150km highway in Corridor 5c for the next three years, no one else will be responsible but entity authorities. I want this phone booth to get such a clear message. All the preparations have been made, the state has done its part, the entities need to do theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6815	Replica, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6816	So I had no intention of discussing Corridor 5c this time, very often, almost daily traveling that part which is called a successful project realization. So I think I'm going to retire and this Corridor 5c from the exits from Sarajevo to Zenica, so that route, I'm not quite convinced it's going to be over. I mean, so much for the success of previous ministries that they planned and with uncertified companies made so-called. 150 km projects. I, then, quite wrongly heard, have other information that where we have money for part of the route to be done there we don't have a project, and where we have a project there we don't have the money to finish that realization. And it started out bakously, by the former prime minister setting up a rock foundation and everyone taking pictures of it, then it was a few years to start with the works, then from the checkout houses, etc. And, I don't think things are going well at all, so there's always some redesigning going on, because we have, above all, unprofessional, and I'm going to use the hard word here, and structures that don't care, not to call them by another name, to build it, but probably to give someone, to someone, to their companies, to certain jobs. That's why it's so good and successful. I can't agree that this project went well and that it's still going well, because the results we need to see should be recorded, and they are very easy to measure by the miles of built road. Until now, as we have seen in the neighborhood and in countries far behind BiH by road infrastructure, they are building 100km a year as Albania, and I do not see, I have not seen where this highway to RS is better built than this one in the Federation. And I would consider that state to be one defeating state, as part of the established structures that clearly don't care about their business, not interfere in their business, and the funds, finally if we could see anything and we could see that, that we paid a commission of fi, or a tax on untapped assets of 1,750,000, thanks to this structure of government... that does so.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6817	Replica, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6818	If it hadn't been for the introduction that started her debate or was a replica, I don't remember, colleague Uzunović, I wouldn't have answered for this replica. I wasn't talking about the success of the project, though, I'm talking about the failure of the project, its unrealization. But I was saying that the state institutions did their part of the job in time. The Sarajevo bypass, it is true that in 2000 a cornerstone was set up and it was appointed by former Federation Prime Minister Mr. Edhem Bičakčić. But the bypass of Sarajevo was built as a cantonal project in fact. I don't even know if the feds were enough, and the feds, in fact, this, as soon as Mr. Bičakčić suggested it, and it was started, it was credited, and there was no project at all. So, absolutely no impact on that ministry had any state or federal influence. Well, we can see what it was like. As far as RS is concerned, I said. Environmental problems have been solved there, a compromise has been made because at one point there was a collage between the Bosnian hydrocentrals and the highway route, and it was very successfully solved. As far as financing is concerned, I made it clear to my colleagues from the RS and to my colleague, who came from the RS, suggested to approach a similar way of financing through the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development and the European Investment Bank, and made it clear that the State Ministry of Communications and Transport is willing to assist the RS in the same way as the Federation, however, the government's decision was then and today to build in a different way. I respect that 77, of course. The main thing is to build a project. I'm the only one who hasn't missed the deadline. So most of that route should be finished in 2012, which means today should be the beginning of construction. And as far as the projects are concerned, as far as the State Ministry and the Council of Ministers are concerned, it's also ready. Those projects are over, almost most of them. So, the main project. But of course, I said, the entities have been responsible and so far, and in the future they will, especially since we have an insurance fund for 70 km, and that we have the remaining 80 km almost negotiated, that we have the main project. So it's just a question of whether or not it's going to be wanted and whether it's going to be realized on entities. And the fact that this parliament did not agree first that Corridor 5c was building a state, or state ministry, that's up to a political decision here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6819	Zvonko Jurišić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6820	Thank you, Chairman. We are now on the agenda point, so we are looking at the report on activities on the project "Autopute on Corridor 5c" and we have a plan for the next activities and we have a report from 28.7.2011, meaning just 8, 9, 10 three months. So it's been prepared and in this report some things have changed, like. preparatory activities for the construction of Bijača shares – Zvirovići, is it. So we don't have any premises there, but we have real stores on that stock there. And what my colleague Ljubić was saying was that for the further construction of the most responsible entities, I must mention that for further construction, progress in further construction, means not only responsible entities, but also municipalities and counties are responsible. So their willingness to co-operate with the Federation and RS highways when it comes to land expropriation. I think it's now some kind of shop that, eventually, is the hardest to go in the field, no matter what the means, the means are secured. And we know that in the Federation and in the preparation of the law, it means changing or passing I don't know exactly the new law on this exemption of land. Because if we're doing this expropriation this way, we're really not going to do it in a decade, what we possibly have secured funds for these about 150km of highways. I will hold a debate here in Parliament about a month ago or a month or a month ago, so what Mr. Ljubić mentioned, about the possible movement of the route on this part of the highway, means from Salakovec to Gubavica, is that, this is the White Tower, north - Mostar to somewhere to the Holidays. Here I think it should mean local authorities, the authorities of Mostar, Capljina, the county and entity government, or the ministry that has given the amendment, whether, on the change of this spatial plan, it is necessary to sit on both political and professional sides to evaluate it. I have this section of expertise, the section of expertise, which is why I wouldn't, so I have some analysis and an estimate of what the length per variant of the former and possibly changed or shifted to height and how much the price difference would be. So I'm saying that 113m euros would be cheaper if this potentially removed variant was moved. That's why I'm saying that we're not the ones who can possibly evaluate and make judgments, whether or not, without including what the Federation of BiH's entity government is saying, and the profession and politics, just like these and the municipalities and the county.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6821	Thank you. 78 Second Replic, Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6822	I have to replicate to my dear representative, Col. Jurišić. I just said that entity authorities would be the most responsible if no new 150km were built for the next three years because funds and the main project were secured. And the municipalities, a colleague of Jurišić, are in entities like the county. Therefore, the role of the entity is that it then negotiates and settles these matters or in RS, of course, an entity with municipalities. But since things were heard here that are actually completely illogical, I would say, absurdly that the path that is longer is cheaper than the existing one that is shorter and I would therefore pray, here, and as a member of the College of Ministers to explain to us what it is and to possibly answer some of the questions that have been heard here. Maybe I was wrong somewhere, too, eventually, so I'd like to be corrected, but here's when the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6823	Replica, Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6824	Here's because my colleague Ljubić invited the minister to explain, then I would like to hear the minister eventually, then I'll take these out about the length of the route and the price, and here we can copy this. So we've got this short route, I don't know, 10 kilometers of tunnels, and there's no longer. Here, just to tell you, it's more expensive for those reasons, is it? And if the minister will, then I'll be happy to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6825	Word has Minister Rudo Vidović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6826	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, of course, I have a need to state the position of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, as well as the Council of Ministers when it comes to this biggest project which is here today deserves attention through this debate that opened here in Parliament. But he's the co-chair of this house, Dr. Ljubić said, so about the analysis of the activities so far, I'm not going to talk about it. I'm going to talk about the moment that's here today, which is actually the result of previous discussions over the years and through this defined agenda, the activity report for the past year. So, you have on the agenda material that was written here on December 31st 2010, and today we are discussing... Meanwhile, there has been a number of activities, including in BiH institutions, especially in the Federation institutions, which are currently due attention from this home. So at the beginning of this year, when the material was directed towards the Council of Ministers and after the constitution of the federal government, we warned the federal government that there were projects done, that all activities, projects for 130km that were entrusted to the Federal Highway Directorate and that for all activities of any character, even movements within the 500m band, should actually be consulted and taken into account the position of the competent institution in BiH that is in charge of designing from Svilaj to Biajca. Unfortunately, I have to say here that despite the clearly referred stance, the Federation government has decided to launch certain activities, even on a new part of the White Field route. About how to design and determine the route, so-called multi-critical analyses, can only be spoken by people who deal with 79 professions and who are not only from BiH and the IPSA, but also from IGH Slovenia, Spain, etc. and they want and are ready and have shown here at a public debate to be made, gentlemen, to face the profession, to confront the profession of people who have been working for years on the design of highways and to trace contacts with people from project houses working for this ministry and to know that here is the potential for changing certain sections of the route, here is the Committee President, in charge of the Council of Ministers, Mr Vrankić. We scheduled a meeting 15 days ago with representatives of the federal government and made it clear that we were facing positions. The result of the meeting is an appointment of 8.11. in Mostar, where representatives of all institutions will speak here about such plans to move the route. Therefore, both the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the IGH consortium, the IGH IPSA, the representatives of federal institutions, so ministries, public enterprises, representatives of the county institutions dealing with spatial planning, the municipalities of the city and all those in such a joint project and as individual and through some part of the joint competence in charge. I want to believe that here is our clear position which is here from this ministry, I would say, I would have received the support of the unanimous and the Council of Ministers, and at a public hearing here a dozen days ago in this Chamber, and yesterday at a session of the parliamentary commission, I would have to be respected and respected by the representatives of federal institutions, since it is, I would say, of common jurisdiction and here it is clear that the state ministry is, by the decisions of the state institutions, in charge of designing and defining an idea course of solution, I said, from Svilaj to Biaca. Any other requirements that may arise must pass the structural analysis of the profession. It is illogical that, at the request of individuals or groups who think they can do designing such large projects, changes occur. In that sense, here I believe that the House of Representatives will support the conclusions of the parliamentary committee that have therefore received unanimous support and that in this way we who will participate in this meeting or in a public debate in Mostar, so on 08.11., misunderstandings of this character as they come out here, this route is shorter, this is more expensive, cheaper, etc. - to be clarified. I repeat, when at the table where we will face the profession, the people who have been working on these projects for years, which are designers, auditors, and finally that we who are in charge of certain activities in this project, therefore, these misunderstandings are finally resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6827	Replica, Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6828	Here I have to tell you that I am pleased and delighted with this presentation of Minister Rude Vidović because we ran the campaign together about a year and a few days ago, so we gave a speech next to each other, so I remembered a little after these 12-13 months, but here, only that fellow Ljubić said, about some absurdities. I'll just give you two or three examples. The route according to the idea project now has 13.9 km of tunnel. Here's what Mr. Rudo Vidović probably knows. It's 5.7 km viaduct and has 0.8 km bridges. And this one eventually moved has 6 km of tunnels, which means almost 8 less, has a viaduct of 5.9 km and an open route of 36 km.... That's why she'd be longer than five, but she's cheaper because of what I said. So it's not absurd, but I did say it on the basis of some arguments. But this is road 8.11. to this debate, on the spot. That's the way. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6829	Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's to getting into this debate and another dimension. So we're talking about a highway where people will probably drive and transport what they need to carry, passengers, goods, etc. These people down in the local community, because of these people here and fellow MPs who don't know the situation down there, they're not savages, they're some people who live here on that ground, and of course they should be asked too. You should ask these people. Normally, most of them here fought against that one-party system, now they're all introducing it. They're drawing a need, and there's no more talking. This is a democratic state. These people downstairs who live have the right to express their opinion so that they can influence this project, not only because of what Mr. Jurišić was talking about earlier, whether it's cheaper or not cheaper. The people know if someone's gonna throw a bag at his head or his house off the highway. So we need to move it. Here's why I'm not going deeper into this analysis, etc. In the end, we're discussing something written a year and a half ago. The federal government will decide how to enter this project. And what I'm trying to say is that we can't have this one-sided discussion about these things. I'm getting circumstances I couldn't be at this public debate, I'd say that then. So there are demands down there for people who want to stay on that ground to continue to live, but that route of the highway in this kind of solution endangers their lives down there. Who are we telling? To whom we make a highway if someone has to stay or not to be on their hearth, and lived there for years, and here these effects of a cheaper project are very important. And it's not going to stop building a highway in this new version and it's going to come together where it's going to connect, but it's going to have to be satisfied and people are going to have to be too much of the same, this country of BiH is because of the people here, not because someone's making highways or doing something else. So consider how and how you do this, and this very important and most important item for me, and this is going to end up either worse or down. Experts, if they're experts, they also know at the request of people to build a project so that no one can be, what our people say, bereaved. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6831	I'm closing the debate within the 11th point of the agenda. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Opinion No 1 of the 2010 Commission Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs Report on Agriculture for BiH You've reached your conclusion, we've also read it on the agenda. You've also received a report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. Today, we declare ourselves in the second round on Proposal No. 1 of the Opinion of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs. There's no discussion here. 81 We move to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Opinion No 2 of the 2010 Commission Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs Report on Agriculture for BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6840	Oh, come on, one sentence. I think it would really be good for this home to reach a conclusion in which it says that political actors who have been given the mandate of citizens to establish power to do anything to do so, and then those elected to the Council of Ministers will do everything possible to speed up BiH's path on the road to the EU. Everything else is a story about a story. There is no way to talk and talk about what laws and the accelerated path of BiH to the Council of Ministers in the technical mandate! There's no capacity for that. So, the Council of Ministers is currently getting out of business. It's not a proactive role. So it's absurd to make this conclusion in a country that has no budget and in a country that has no authority formed. So, please, I don't think this conclusion makes any sense. Because it's hypocritical, the chairman, even if you're cheerleading to this conclusion, that every three months. Who? When you know you won't do anything. Here we have seen today from this debate that we have had that there is not a crumb of one permissiveness to the extremely strained relationships and demands. No, it's not. It's not moving. So, what's it gonna mean every three months? And what will the Council of Ministers do to us every three months? What is their end and responsibility, with the fact that they have a technical mandate? So, don't play with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6841	Here I am applying, let this be treated as a replica, but first, I hope that in the next three months we can also get a new Council of Ministers of BiH. Secondly, if we're not going to look at it once a month, there's a legal initiative here that we're going to declare today, that we plead once a month. Or you have a proposal unanimously adopted by the Joint Commission for European Integration, which says that by January 2012, it will be the Council of Ministers and that we are then pleading. Of course, the media often does, and sometimes we talk about political actors agreeing on 84. I think we should go back to constitutional provisions in this country. BiH citizens chose the BiH presidency. They chose this parliament. We here need to do our part of the job and assume our share of responsibility. The Council of Ministers should also do its part of the job until a new Council of Ministers is elected. So here I really invite everyone to take over every part of their responsibility and try. I hope in the next three months that there will be a new Council of Ministers, and this is such an important topic that I don't believe and I know that you don't mind that we really do this issue at the end and analyze here and at Parliament and give some new impulse to speed up this process in the coming period... [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6842	My debate will be shorter than the time for replication, but I just left a replica for any answers. I would suggest that we move this deadline from 12 to 13 January, because it is 12 Thursday, so that we extend this deadline Friday for the establishment of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6843	No, January 13th is the Serbian New Year...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6844	Then we'll have to move the week behind. I respect, therefore, Mr. Jovičić's remarks. Well, look, I'm not gonna support this initiative. Not because I don't care about European integration, believe me, I care how much you all care about it here, but I think it's one alibi of an initiative that is essentially, whether it's monthly, whether it's three months old, etc., nothing will bring anything new to the Council of Ministers, unless we change our relationship towards the essential direction that BiH needs to go, and for that change we don't need any conclusion, no initiative, we need to change it first in our heads and in our relations. So to build such relationships that will not generate blockades, and these relationships can only be based on trust, mutual trust. Based on the removal of fears for which every day, even in the debate today, we see that there is a reason. Because we're not irrational people here, none of us here. I believe that rational people sit here and when they react cautiously to some suggestions, so when I say so, it has a mark, to express myself medically, and paranoia, and it's legitimate. Even paranoia, so a senseless fear must be considered, for it is also the result of something. If nothing else, the consequences of our relationship in the past. Therefore, the essence is here, I have come out only to not be my restraint or against, when voted on, any signal that I am not like Šefik Džaferović and most of you here for the EU, etc., the approximation of Europe, but because of that there is nothing, because it is an alibi proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6845	Replica, Salko Sokolović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6846	Thank you, Chairman. Well, look, there's no Šefik here, he'd answer it best, but here's just a few sentences. I'd consider the Chief's initiative well-intentioned. So if we started from there, then I'm sure 85 of our discussions would be in a positive direction. They're kind of negative now, and I don't think we know why we're doing it ourselves. At least for these debaters who spoke negatively of her. Mr. Ljubić, the people have given a saying a long time ago, he says, warn, a warning is good. Here's what if we remember every month what our obligation is, so let's analyze if we've done anything, maybe even shame ourselves, and we'll have some result at the end of it. Here, it's not a replica of Mrs. Majkić, but in her presentation just now, here she says we can't agree. What do we need the Council of Ministers if they sent us the State Aid Act, and today we're weighing here whether it's funding from three levels or from one level? Let's sit down and figure out what this is. Here's an example of the State Aid Act is proof that we here in Parliament can take that step forward. Among other things, Mr. Džaferović thought of it, I suppose, when he was giving this initiative. And I wouldn't just say no. I would ask everyone to accept it as well-intentioned, so just so that we can give ourselves some commitment, so at the end of this analysis, what we are, and, after all, what the Council of Ministers did. Well, the Council of Ministers is getting paid there, people. This is where we release the Council of Ministers from obligation and not release from funding. Why would they do that? I'm not saying people aren't well-intentioned there. They're well-intentioned, so let's go push them in a little bit. Let's give them some commitment, let's give them some assignment, regardless of the policies we represent, sitting here in these parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6847	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6848	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Sokolović, that's all great what you said. But I'm asking you who we're going to ask for all this information to be notified within a month or every month. What's he gonna tell us about? Wait, here we go. We'll back her up. Here we go. We'll pick a new Council of Ministers. And whoever we choose, this is not a threat, whoever comes, there will be a thousand running questions for him, as if we were the European Commission, so someone put it out to us, only to them. But we can't do this to these people when they're fighting where the bread will eat after they've been removed. But this suits them, people are here, doing honest work. But when we choose a new Council of Ministers, let's run for them, so if it takes every 15 days, not a month. What are we going to do about these people, remember my constant greetings? The first row of three chairs – greetings, the second – four there is no one, and all that. There's something here today, something. Next session... 20, 50, 500 -- nobody has any. Who are we going to ask questions to? Let's ask a common parliamentary question to those from these European integrations, so we don't get an answer in three months. No Niko's obliged. Is there a sanction if someone doesn't answer me within the legal time limit of the parliamentary question, will it be removed? He laughs at me for asking him stupid. What kind of question, what kind of obligation? And now what do we load up to people who don't know what's gonna happen to them tomorrow? Let's make a choice. She has a saying, and it is not a provocation: 'First sheath to herself, then to the people.' To choose the Council of Ministers and as soon as they come, take an oath, each of us has the strength, to jump some minister and say, "Thousands of questions to answer me, man, we're going ahead, we all want to go to Europe." 86 So it's not against this, this initiative is great, but I'm asking who's gonna deliver it to us? And then what do we do with someone's initiatives alone, create ourselves a commitment and someone else, when we'll never get an answer to that? My kolega Sokolović, that's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6849	Replica, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. And get Mr. Belkić ready for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6850	I wish every time we heard this, we didn't hear it, because we're not smarter. If we remember that the agenda point is to get information, this initiative by Parliamentarian Džeferović, to get information about activities on the way to European integration, then I think it is a very regular and good initiative. Is a month a little, little time to make something happen? There's little time and five years in this country, one term. Let us remind ourselves that we asked the same thing when the Council of Ministers was in its full capacity, in the last term, that we couldn't count, and well said MP Jovičić, but then they weren't in the technical mandate and they didn't want to come. And so it's neither a technical nor a non-technical mandate to do anything or not. The reason is because of the unhappiness and simple tolerance of this home that it does not give them tasks, as MP Majkić is trying to edit, at least that segment on the commission to do their job. I would have insisted in the same way last year when the Council of Ministers' work report was submitted, the chairman of the Council of Ministers was not there, and we never got for the past term what the Council of Ministers did and we will never get it, and it is evident that it should be said in one word, even if they send us these reports. Will we agree to do it once a month or to do it in three months, that's a technical question, but it's obvious it should. The Council of Ministers therefore has within the state services, there is this Directorate for European Integration that certainly follows all these processes and can certainly give us a report because there are not those who have been elected there and who will change now, but someone who is professional and who does the job as civil servants. Therefore, this is nothing against it. Secondly, I must, therefore, report to MP Ljubić to say that the stories about the blockades you are talking about, so at least you should talk about the blockades and the failure to reach an agreement to form a Council of Ministers, because it is evident what the results of the negotiations are and what insistence of your implementation parties on forming a Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6851	Replica, Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6852	You can see that I did the tactically right thing by applying for a hearing, because otherwise I wouldn't have had a chance to answer. In fact, the end of your debate or replica is completely out of context. I categorically refuse any innuendo that parties to my implementation – I do not know what 87 should mean, because we are a party to democratic implementation – to block therefore the Council of Ministers. I'd say that's before the Social Democratic Party. Therefore, I would like to say that whoever has the highest mandate, who in the beginning has declared himself an electoral winner, has the highest responsibility for the formation of but also for the informality of the Council of Ministers, and you know who it is, who has the highest mandate in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6853	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6854	I just said it's very difficult to be on this Joint Commission for Defence and Security. God, it's not even in this House of Representatives that easy. So we had one initiative, a very simple initiative, a business opportunity, a man took advantage and suggested. So, I see that others have forgotten what the man has suggested. The man suggested that these things be entered into the work plan, the work programme, so the documents made by the College, etc.. Mr. Džaferović's absence as chairman considered him a handicap and wanted to help talk a little about his initiative, as he felt it might not be possible to get support. So, I also don't think it's possible monthly, given our capacities and maintenance and sessions and getting material, but I'm absolutely sure it would be very necessary, regardless of what can be interpreted as making up and showing interests to the EU, etc., but we need that information, we don't know. I had an initiative today for these three documents that people haven't seen. I haven't seen all these three documents, and it concerns this state and this Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, I'm absolutely comfortable with this initiative, but it needs to be precise. The work programme has been established, as far as I know, at the House of Representatives, it takes the Šefik to estimate how many times we can by the end of the year, whether it once, twice, we have this kind of report, why not.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6855	The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović and the initiator.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6856	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, so I had to go to a meeting at 4:00 a.m., and I was sitting there, and then they warned me that there was a debate going on here and I came alone. So, I'm sorry again for not being at the beginning of the debate about this item on the agenda. The meeting was of such a nature that I had to maintain it, I couldn't delay it. What asked me to suggest this? If it hadn't been for bad experience that we wouldn't have had if we had acted the way I suggested in this initiative, I wouldn't have suggested it. You will all remember the liberalisation of the visa regime and you will remember that BiH is too late to fulfil its obligations and that, after Serbia-Montenegro, it was left to wait almost a year with Macedonia to liberalise the visa regime. 88 When we looked at the reasons why it was done, we saw that BiH, among other things, was a key reason, late with the issue of biometric travel documents, and when we looked at the reasons for the delay in issuing biometric travel documents, we saw that between the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on travel documents of BiH was agreed, it seems to me, six months, so here between us and we will not go anywhere further than the White Hall and the Blue Hall of this Parliament – the Law on travel documents agreed between two homes for six months. For six months, it was waiting to be published and to start issuing biometric travel documents, or passports. So I saw that as simple as Parliament, we must have information – given that the terrible consequences and the terrible consequences – about what is happening, who has fulfilled his obligations, who has not fulfilled his obligations, which is why he has not met and who is responsible for it. I believe that, for example, the European Commission's latest report when BiH received a negative report should have led to the fact that the BiH Parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly, had already met, at a joint session of both homes to discuss the situation. I think it's such a serious thing. And I don't know what the problem is, if this is what you're proposing to do, you're making a plan of work, so you put the extended college in that, here I've written, monthly, here you go, if it's full monthly, then in two months, in three months. The Joint Commission for European Integration said, let's postpone this until the new Council of Ministers arrives, such a report, they wrote. Let us simply as Parliament remind ourselves of the state of fulfillment of our obligations, which is the stage in which we are located, and simply as the most agreed people in this country call on those who have not fulfilled their obligations to meet them, because that is why it suits the whole country. I know there are questions that are of a political nature. It won't be an opportunity, and I didn't even think of it as an opportunity to conduct some barren political debate, but just so we know. I believe that anyone here in this room received a report a month later that the Law on travel documents did not agree, that both homes, both homes, would react and that the law would be in line in the next month. That's because of the situation and the situation, I suggest we have this. Because BiH's key problem is that a system of responsibility has not yet been built in BiH. We do not have, following various reasons, a proper system of responsibility has not been established in BiH. We had in a period of post-Dayton development a system of responsibility which was mainly at the role of the international community. The role has changed, and BiH has not built its own system of responsibility. This is one of the ways that, with the help of the public, parliamentary debates, one of the most democratic discussions tries to introduce more order and more responsibility in fulfilling the obligations of all of us. Because it won't matter, no matter what someone disagrees with something, if it is publicly said here that this minister or that minister or that president, or this and that MP, has failed to do what all four million in BiH were to do today. So that was the goal of what I suggested and nothing else. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6857	I'm closing the debate within the 19th point of the agenda. Moving to the 20th item of the agenda: 89 Ad. 20. Appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the Professional Commission of the DTT Forum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, issue: 01,02-29-928/11 since 7.9.2011 The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport submitted a letter on 7 September 2011 asking the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to appoint three members of the DTT Forum's Expert Commission in accordance with the Decision amending the Decision on the continuation of the work of the DTT Forum. At the 4th session, held on 29.9.2011, the joint college of both homes established a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the forum on digital and terrestrial television in BiH, with the conclusion that the House of Peoples appointed a member of the Croatian People's DTT Forum and a representative home for members of the Bosniak and Serbian people. Do you have any suggestions? Danijela Martinović applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6859	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, the SDP representative club proposes Mr Mirsad Mešić as a member of this commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6860	The word has an Emir Kabil.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6861	Dear President, in front of the Alliance for a Better Future IsmetDervoz I suggest this committee...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6862	Let's move on. We also need a member of the Serbian people. We're at an extended college yesterday, my colleague Kalabić is not here right now, but he asked to be considered until the session itself. Here you go. My colleague Milorad Živković, the first deputy, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6863	Here's what we discussed at the club last night, and I think Mrs. Dušanka Majkić might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6864	I agree, therefore, that from the Serb people is the candidate we will plead with Dušanka Majkić, and from the Bosniak people we have Mirsad Mešić, Ismet Dervoz. Of these two candidates, one will be elected. I'm closing the debate on the 20th agenda. 90 Before we move to the 21st item of the agenda, I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 21 to 33 of the agenda is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I invite you to prepare and vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 22 votes "yes", without "against" and without "sustained" has accepted this proposal. The opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on approval for ratification has been given to you. I'm opening a debate on these agenda points. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Now here's two minutes to five hours, I suggest we vote at 17.20. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to prepare for your vote. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda, adoption of the minutes from the 10th and 11th sessions Please prepare for the vote. Comrade Jovičić, have you prepared yourself?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6866	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6867	Please vote now! I find that the House of Representatives has accepted and adopted the minutes of the 10th and 11th sessions. 29 votes "yes", "no" nothing, "abstained" niche. Of course, we have the necessary and entity majority. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Glasmo, on the adoption of an emergency procedure. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. We're crossing. Are we going to the second circle right now? Please prepare to vote in the second round. 91 vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, we do not have the necessary entity majority from the RS. This request has not been accepted, the law of the High Representative remains in force. We move to agenda 4: The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall be voted first, therefore, on the adoption of an emergency procedure request. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I realize we have the necessary general majority, but we don't have the necessary entity majority from the RS. We're going to vote in the second round. I invite you to prepare yourselves. Vote, now! In the second round, we have 11 'against' from the RS again, so this request is not accepted. The law remains in force, so the law of the High Representative. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, firstly, on the adoption of an emergency procedure. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. Shall we go straight to the second round? We're going to vote in the second round. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have 11 votes against the RS, so this request is not accepted. The law of the High Representative remains in force. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) Here we will vote on 15 amendments to Dušanka Majkić and finally on the proposal for a law in the second reading. Would you like to make a statement in the package about these amendments? Okay. Please prepare to vote. 92 Vote, now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] About 15 amendments to Dušanka Majkić. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6869	There's no need for me to vote when it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6870	Comrade Kalabić, come in. Come on, we won't be making any of that trouble, please. I asked, no one answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6871	I'm sorry, I'm asking my colleague to vote individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6872	We'll vote individually, not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6873	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6874	Well, we don't always vote together, but I have to say I asked you clearly. If you didn't hear correctly, we'll repeat, we'll go from amendment to amendment. So we'll vote individually. Let's get the amendment number first... [[Common discussion]] First we voted on the package. If he wants an amendment and a SNSD club individually, we'll go, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6876	If it's known that none of the amendments will pass, and that's what those who yell let's go in the package say, that means let's break it all down. If it's known it won't pass, then there's no point going from amendments to amendments. And I see such a mood is obvious. And if there's any chance that any amendment will pass, then it would be logical to go from amendments to amendments. So we can in the package because obviously there's no way to achieve... 93 [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6877	Okay. Wait a minute. You heard. The amendment promoter Dušanka Majkić made it very clear. She's asking us to vote in the package anyway. Here I am now inviting you to prepare for the vote. We're voting again in a package of 15 amendments. Here's a colleague of Živković's, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6878	I really don't want to complicate it, but look at the result, the result that should have been on the question whether or not we're going to vote in the package: 13-3-10. Mrs. Majkić, don't give up. Apparently, according to this result, there are people who would like some of your amendments to support. Then ask this question again, too, to see if Parliament will accept in the package? And you decide after that whether or not you will. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6879	Okay. After this intervention of colleagues, we will first vote on whether to vote in a package or individually. Please prepare for the vote, we're voting on that now. So we're voting on whether we're going to vote on these amendments in a package. 16 'for', 10 'against', 10 from RS
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6880	No, no, there's no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6881	It's not enough. I don't know why we're complicated the whole thing. Are we going back in the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6882	I'd rather go individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6883	Here, if you agree that what I was talking about a few minutes ago, we should vote individually from one amendment to another and please prepare for the vote. First we vote on amandman I. glasati, now! 12 "for", 15 "against." amandman I. did not receive the general majority. We're moving on to Amendment II. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! amandman II. to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended accordingly, he didn't get the necessary general majority. We're moving on to Amendment III. Vote, now! amandman III.. he didn't get the necessary general majority. We are going to vote on amandman iv.e. Vote, now! Amendment IV. not accepted, no general majority required. We're going to vote on amandman v.. We glasati, now! "For" 12, 11, "against," has a general majority, doesn't have the necessary entity majority. Shall we go right in the second round? Please prepare immediately for the second round of voting. Vote, now! So we don't have a general majority. This amendment has not been accepted. Boba was missing. We're moving on to Amendment VI. Please vote, now! This amendment did not receive the necessary general majority. We're moving on to Amendment VII. Vote, now! Amendment VII. there is no need for the general majority. We're going to vote on amandman vi. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote for amandman vi. So there's no need for a general majority. We're going to vote on amandman IX.. Vote, now! I find that there is a necessary general majority here, but there is no necessary entity majority. We vote in the second round. Agree? Please prepare yourselves. Let's vote, now! There's no general majority. Amendment IX. not accepted. We're going to vote on amandman X.. glasati now! "For" 12, 11 versus, there's no need for an entity majority. We're going to the second round. Agree? So we vote in the second round on amandman X. glasati, now! There is a necessary general majority, there is no 'against' vote. 95 Amendment X has passed. So you'll uphold the law. We're going to Amendment XI. We vote, now! "In" 12, 10 "against," so we have the necessary general, but we don't have the entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. We're moving on to Amendment XII. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! This amendment did not receive the necessary general majority. We're moving on to Amendment XIII. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! 15 'for', 13 'against', we don't have the necessary entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. We're going to vote on amandman XIV.. Please prepare to vote on Amendment number XIV. Vote, now! We're going to vote again here. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! 13 'for', 11 'against', has a general majority, doesn't have the necessary entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. We're going to vote on the amandman XV.. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 'for', 'against' 11, there's no necessary entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees and ethics of the Glasmo on the opinion of the Joint Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! 26 "for," three "against." I find that we have adopted the opinion of the Joint Commission. _________(?) 96 [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDS Club, we will repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! 'For' 26, 'against' one,'sustained' nothing. So we accepted the opinion of the Joint Commission. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Proposal for a system law __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6886	There's not enough votes "against."
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6887	Yes, the Commission's opinion was adopted. There are no 19 votes against the Federation. The law is down. We move to the 10th item of the agenda of the draft Milorad on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Do we need to read it one more time? It's not, you know. We vote, now! 13 "for" seven "against." There's a general majority, there's no necessary entity majority. We're going to the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! There is obviously no required number of votes "against", so we can say that the proposal for the conclusion of MP Milorad Živković was accepted. There is no point further to plead on these conclusions by Aleksandra Pandurević and the law. We move to the 11th item of the agenda Report on activities on the project "Autoput to Corridor 5c" and plan of the next activities
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6888	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6890	Thank you. ... the conclusion of Mr. Živković that the Council of Ministers made a consolidated text and that the Council of Ministers proposed a new law, etc. We have a living law here. He needs to be made known. We don't have to plead on the conclusions of a colleague, if you do, but the law must be declared, I mean, the law must be completed, we have a living law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6891	So we agreed to go towards making a consolidated text of this law. 98 kolega Živković, come in. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6892	And the new law suggests it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6893	Comrade Živković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6894	I simply have nothing but business that this conclusion is devised to vote on the law and to propose a new law within 30 days of the Council of Ministers. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6895	A colleague of Džaferović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6896	Oh, please. So it can't be concluded that the vote on the law can't be drawn up. The law may be withdrawn by the promoter and the House may bring him down or adopt him. So, vote on him in the House. The law is on the agenda. The conclusion is: "It is up to the Council of Ministers to produce a consolidated text of the Law on State Service in BiH institutions within 30 days and to propose a new text of legislation that will go towards improving the efficiency of the functioning of joint institutions." So, here's to knowing, I mean, why vote and what goes through. But this doesn't mean that we don't have to vote on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6897	Secretary of the House of Representatives, how do you interpret? _________(?) [[Common discussion]] Clean stuff. [[no microphone turned on]] She looks clean to everyone, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6899	There's no microphone involved.....to make a new law, we voted that.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6900	counterpart Džaferović believes that we should also vote on this law on the agenda. Hey, buddy Lozančić, here you go. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6901	I think there's a slip here in the order of the plea. So, first we should have made a statement about the bill and this proposal makes sense if the law falls. So this suggestion of a conclusion makes sense if the law falls, then it's the Council of Ministers' responsibility to offer something new, is it? And if the law passes, then it can be stated about this conclusion so that, past this, here's the Council of Ministers again... but we absolutely have to make a statement about the law, so we can't say a single conclusion, except that someone suggested delaying the statement of the law, and no one suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6902	I think we made a good order, and now,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6903	I don't think so. So, anyway, I think we need to make a statement about the law, but also about these proposals for conclusions, even though right now, right now... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6904	Just a little bit now. Obviously, then, we have a shared opinion in this situation as we already are. I think the best solution is for Parliament to now declare whether or not it will vote... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6905	Chairman, I mean, don't make a statement about things that are business offices. You interpret the Rules of Procedure of the Three of you and say so and the story is finished. Because if we get into making a statement about the Rules of Procedure, then we've just made a problem, then we've opened up a practice very ugly. Say it and it's over. Šefik, you're wrong. People, the law, have deadlines prescribed there and when the late commission is ten days and when it... writes a letter, we ask for an extension of the deadline. Now you're leaving here living law here, coming up like that, we don't know what we did with it. I think, first of all, the consolidated text of the law cannot be done by the Council of Ministers, but the consolidated text of the law works by the constitutional commission after the House of Authorities. Furthermore, they are not joint institutions here but BiH institutions, and these are the two things that angered me not to vote, and I am therefore of course to improve the state service system in BiH, but this is not the way to break this law and it is not the way to do it. I won't vote for anything, which is illogical, and I won't vote for any paper where they write common, listen, joint BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6906	Here I have supported this conclusion, but I think it is right that those who feel that the law should be declared, but that does not derivate this conclusion. Even if this law passes or fails, this conclusion states that the Council of Ministers immediately starts working on a new law and prepares within a month. Therefore, I still think we should make a statement about the law. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6907	Here you go, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6908	The chairman, the agenda item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Service Act. So we didn't vote on this, and we should put it to the vote, and then, after the vote's outcome, eventually, we find some moderation if we have some collapsing. But the conclusion can't have more specific weight than the draft law that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6909	Okay. Please... take it easy. First we vote now, here's the College's position, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6910	If there's already a suggestion to look for some space, you can't ask for it today. All we can do is leave Koelgijum to take a stand at the next session. We've voted for a conclusion. Well, I voted a hundred times when I was wrong later, I think, but that's mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6911	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6912	So you have where the foothold is when we're asking for a delay on the plea of the law. I don't dispute the arguments that this is all, but we voted, all these arguments were supposed to stand before the vote came to a conclusion. But the least we can do... is get the Kolegijum to agree to the next session. I think
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6913	Here's a colleague of Lozančić, a businessman.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6914	I warn you of article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which in paragraph (3), says: 'The debate ends in the first reading by adopting or rejecting the bill in the first reading.' Right, here's the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't dispute adoption or failure to adopt conclusions, but the law is like this...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6915	Okay. So, first, counterpart Džaferović voices doubts about the vote and we are voting on the conclusion of MP Milorad Živković. Please prepare to vote. We vote, now! "For" 13, "against" 11. So we have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. Of course, 101.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6916	Wait, did you suspect both rounds of voting or just the final round of voting? ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Which first? How are you going to go to the second round of voting, if you are expressing your suspicion of the first round of voting? This was an expression of suspicion of the second round of voting. Now we've done the second round of voting again and we've finished the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6918	Here you go, Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6919	So, I've expressed my doubts about the results of the vote. The vote, when the vote is said, knows everything that's in it and the man is going to vote again. And he's going to vote, it voted in the first round, and I'm now saying, I suggest you leave this for later, here we go. So if you'll appreciate it, you won't, it's your business, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6920	Of course we'll respect it. We reiterated the vote, so in the first round there was no need for the entity majority, there would be a subsequent consensus on this conclusion. We don't have any others.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6921	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6922	We've re-voted the vote. We've repeated the procedure. Do you agree to schedule a break for 10 minutes and make it extended and what do you want? Here's everyone arguing at once. Šefik, we have obviously an MP here who unfortunately votes on some things, [[Common discussion]] Do you agree to leave this issue completely for the next session? Here we go to the point, here we go to vote of course. We're voting on this whole case, so point 11. We're voting at the next session. In the meantime, Koelgi will have a debate before that. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Vote, now! __________(?) 102 Point 10. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6925	He fell. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6926	He fell, considering it's the second round. We move to the 14th item of the agenda Report of the Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on Proposal No 3 from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only in the second round on Proposal No 3 of the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs. Vote, now! I find that we have 11 votes 'against' from the RS and that the proposal for a conclusion has not received the necessary majority. Moving to point 15. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Opinion No 4 of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs Opinion on the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second round on Proposal No 4 from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs. Vote, now! I find that in the second round of the proposal, number 4 did not receive the necessary entity majority and was not accepted. We move to the 16th Point Report of the Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on an effort to reach agreement on Proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović for the discussion of the 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Vote, now! We have more than two-thirds of the votes 'against' from the RS and the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović has not received the required majority, but there is no general majority here. Right? We move to the 17th point of the Commission's report on the efforts to reach agreement on receiving conclusions from the Joint Commission's opinion on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the discussion of the BiH Ministry of Security report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the area of the protection of classified data in 2010. Only in the second round on receiving the conclusions of the Joint Commission's opinion on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. 104 vote, now. I find that the House of Representatives in the second round has not received any knowledge of the conclusion of the Opinion. We move on to the 18th agenda Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Commission's Opinion on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the discussion of the BiH Ministry of Security Report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the area of the protection of classified data in 2010. Only in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Commission's Opinion on the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency. Vote, now! I find that in the second round of the Opinion's proposal, he did not get the necessary entity majority. We have 10 votes against the RS. We move to the 19th item of the agenda Declaration on MPs' initiative Šefikto include in the work plan of the House of Representatives that every month the state of fulfilment of the obligations that BiH has on its European, Euro-Atlantic and Security Road will be analysed" We vote on the adoption of the conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration, which reads. Do you have this text? Can you read it or Branko, it's my throat.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6927	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6928	Yeah, the point is that. You don't even have to read it. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6929	The microphone says we'll get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6930	There's no microphone on. hajde on, we can plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6931	There's no microphone involved, of course we'll plead, it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6932	Well, yeah, we'll get to the bottom of the Initiative. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6933	We have no opinion on this initiative, we cannot plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6934	There's no microphone involved and no opinion, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6935	This is the Opinion with the Opinion, without the very opinion of this initiative as an initiative. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6936	Please, can we speak out on the initiative that this committee, the Joint Commission for European Integration, adopted to postpone the discussion of this initiative by January 2012? Well, let's not make it any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6937	How will we plead on the initiative that contains a categorical claim that until then the Council of Ministers will be formed? We don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6938	It's not them. To be clear, no, people wrote when expected. Well, we can expect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6939	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6940	Comrade Živković, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6941	We have two ways to get out here, to vote on the Initiative or to put this committee in charge of giving the relevant opinion we have so far had on initiatives, positive or negative, and to plead on the initiative. So, you want to complicate the matter, put this commission in charge, or vote right now on the Initiative. That's two solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6942	He's a colleague of Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6943	... So, I propose, I am now modifying the Initiative and I say this, 'That the House of Representatives asks the College that when this plan is made to assess what time it is, whether it is a month, two or three, when 106 will put this point of the agenda, which is called Analysis of the fulfilment of our obligations on the European and Euro-Atlantic security path'. Nothing more. So here's my suggestion now not to be a month, but to evaluate it in a program of work that you're going to write whether the moon, whether two, is three. That's, I've achieved my goal.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6944	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6945	My dear Ljubić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6946	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6947	My colleague Ljubić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6948	Look, I don't agree to be reminded of what my right and duty is. Because it's my right and my duty to take care of it and put something in the agenda as a member of the College or not. What would they vote on that? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6949	I think it would be good if an idea like this, which is essentially a good idea, didn't fall apart.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6950	not the microphone included is Zivkovic's proposal to ask that this commission is not playing with us but that what is expected of it is a real opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6951	Can we accept this conclusion as well? So, that this commission gives its opinion. Here, let's get this straight. Please prepare to vote. Therefore, we vote on this proposal by our colleague Živković. Vote, now! 27 "for" nothing. We have the necessary entity majority. The proposal for the conclusion of his colleague, Živković, was accepted. We move to the 20th item of agenda 107 The appointment of members from the House of Representatives to the DTT Forum of Bosnia and Herzegovina During the debate, proposals by Mirsad Mešić, Ismeta Dervoz and Dušanka Majkić were heard. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to say that by estimating the professional qualifications of Mrs Ismeta Dervoz, we have decided to withdraw Mirsad Mešić's candidacy, so we vote on Ismeta Dervoz and Dušanka Majkić in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! In the package, then. I find that both candidates have received the necessary majority, without any vote 'against' and'restraint'. I now propose that we vote first on all agreements from point 21 to point 33 in the package. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find this proposal has received the necessary majority. We are now voting on granting consent to ratifying the agreement from point 21 to point 33. Prepare to vote and vote, now! I agree that we have accepted and agreed to ratify the agreement from point 21 to point 33. This closes the 12th session. Here you go, Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6952	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, please, so today is 27.10, the next session is 10.11. We voted today under item 8. for the draft law on the state aid system in BiH. So, the law that is the essence of this session. And after the first vote law didn't have a third of every entity, but there were no votes 'against' of this law, you concluded that the alignment would take place later. I beg you, so this is 15 days, 15 days for this law is a lot. If there is a willingness for this law to be supported today in the first reading here, even in a way that will be'sustained', which will not be 'against', I ask you to consider this in the College and to finish this thing today, so that we can move on. I want to, so I got up to call a complete home, if there's a mood, let's get this over with today, 15 days is a lot for BiH, when it comes to this thing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6953	My kolega Džaferović, I received assurances that there is no such readiness.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6954	There's nothing on the microphone, then it's done. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2011-10-27-0.u6955	The next session is November 10th. Thank you for your presence and for your participation in the debate. The seat is closed at 18.20 hours.
