ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u544	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and representatives of international organisations, respected representatives of the media and embassies, I warmly welcome you and open the 6th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 15 delegates present at the session, which means that all delegates from all three clubs of the people are present. For the 6th session, the following amended and updated has been proposed 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 3. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on the Census of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011, Proposed by the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the settlement of liabilities on the basis of an old foreign savings account, No 01,02-02-1-1411 of 18. 8. 2011 (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Report by the College of the People's House on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010; 6. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Proposer of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the PSBiH; 7. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010, number 012-09-48311, of 2. Six. 2011; 8 / 8 Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31 March 12. 2010, material number 01,02-50-19-56711, of 15. Six. 2011; 9. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH Institutions, No 01-02-1-85311, of 28. Seven. 2011; 10. Report on agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2010, issue 01,02-28-89311, of 25. 8. 2011; 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the execution of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić-Finc v BiH, the proposal of the Serbian People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Co-ordination Committee Agreement under the Ministerial Defence Process in Southeast Europe; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Classification of figurative elements of stamps, made in Vienna on 12 June 1973, with amendments from 1 October 1985; 14. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court (ICTY); 15. Giving consent to ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the settlement of the debt of the Republic of Albania relating to the account amount based on the exchange of goods between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; 17. Council Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of 13 December 2006 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation’s association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement (Modernisation of the University of East Sarajevo) between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement (additional financing for the Health Strengthening Project) between BiH and the International Development Association On the proposal of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, the name of point 3 has been restructured so that point 3 is now the proposal for a conclusion to extend the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011. The proposer of this conclusion is the Joint Commission. We also reformed the name of point 11. The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the execution of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić-Finc v BiH, according to the recommendation of the conclusion of the Serbian People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, given that earlier in the draft agenda, it was a proposal for a decision rather than a conclusion, which would be a mistake. Point 19 is also included for the agenda of today’s session. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement (additional financing for the Health Sector Strengthening Project) between BiH and the International Development Association, and at the special request of the ministry, which was approved by the respective committee of the House of Peoples. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? Are there any amendments and additions to the read agenda? There are no reports. Thank you. Given that there are no amendments and additions, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 3 We move to the first point of Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th session of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u548	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u549	I find he's pleased. Now I invite you to sign up for participation in this agenda item if you want to. Here you go. The honorable delegate, Mr. Josip Merdžo, appeared. Here you go, Mr. Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u550	Thank you very much. Greetings to the chairman, the chairman, all colleagues, colleagues and guests. I would like to ask one question to the Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: 'The Constitutional Court of BiH in Case No: U9/09, by resolving the request of the Club of Envoys of the Croatian People to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, made a decision under which provisions of Article 19.4. The election law of BiH does not comply with Article II. point 4. The Constitution of BiH, as regards Article 25 The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. The Constitutional Court ordered the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to amend and supplement non-constitutional provisions of the Electoral Law in accordance with this decision within six months of the publication of the decision in "The Official Messenger of BiH". The decision was announced in the middle of the sixth month of this year. So it's been more than three months since the announcement. 4 So, in accordance with Article 144. I would like to ask the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations a question to the Joint College of both homes: At what stage is the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision in the section concerning the order to the Parliamentary Assembly to amend and supplement the non-constitutional provisions of the BiH Election Law within six months? The reminders are that part of the Electoral Law relating to the election of councilors in the City Council of Mostar is not in line with the Constitution of BiH and Article 25. The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. Realising that certain things go hand in hand with amendments to the Electoral Law, which are not specifically related to this topic, I think this Constitutional Court decision should have one priority because the elections for the local level expect us next year, so I think that the Parliamentary Assembly should have a priority when resolving this issue, i.e. acting on the order of the Constitutional Court of BiH." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u551	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Merdžo. Here, on behalf of the House of Nations College, after the consultations, I can offer you the opportunity to make a written statement after a session of the Joint College, and I hope that will satisfy this moment of your interest. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u552	Acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u553	Thank you. Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Merdžo. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u554	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I warmly welcome you all. I have two delegate questions. The first is: 'The Personal Data Protection Act has been adopted, yet thousands of BiH citizens are lurking in danger of identity theft because their home numbers are available to everyone on the official websites of a series of public institutions that should know they are breaking the law. I ask the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data: Can this also stand still, and have the conditions for the transgressors of the law to be punished? And second question: 'Kemal Huseinović was appointed director of the RAK four years ago but never received a decision from the Council of Ministers to appoint him because they did not agree to his appointment. The procedure was implemented by the RAC Council, which submitted a unanimous proposal to the Council of Ministers for the 5th appointment of the gentleman-in-chief-general, because he was the only one who met the requirements prescribed by law. In 2008, the RAC Council addressed the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for interpreting such an attitude, but never received an answer. I ask the Council of Ministers or the Competent Ministry: Why did it not act according to the law, and what is their position on this problem today and ask for a written statement?"
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u555	I thank Mr. Bradarić. Can you answer now? Any of the addressees on behalf of the ministry? There isn't. It's written. Mr. Bradarić, are you satisfied at this moment?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u556	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u557	Yes, it is. You'll get your answer in writing. Thank you. The next thing you know, an esteemed colleague, Mladen Ivanić, appeared. Here you go, colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u558	Dear Chairman, my question has been addressed to you. In June, I asked why children from the Serb people in Glamoc could not learn in Serbian. Here's October, I don't have an answer. When do I get an answer to my question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u559	I thank you, Mr. Ivanić. So what I can do is, in your name, direct the emergency to whoever's question is asked, and if I get an emergency response, I'll send it to you in writing. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u560	I expect your authority to do something about it anyway, and I'm going to ask this question until I get an answer. 200 children, Serbian children, cannot learn in Serbian in Glamoc. If it were somewhere else, it would be made of both media and any other spectacle. You just keep your mouth shut about this. And I won't give up every time I don't ask when I'm going to get an answer to that question. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u561	All right, Mr. Ivanić, if you think your authority wasn't enough, I'm going to advocate my authority, so I hope we can resolve that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u562	I hope yours will be stronger than mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u563	My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. Here you go, colleague of the Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u564	I would like to ask the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers and colleagues, the representatives of the Council of Ministers and, of course, the others present in this Chamber, which is why I would like to ask the question of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of BiH, which is why the procedure for the appointment of the Management Board of the Institute for the Search for Missing Persons of BiH is not being initiated, and I believe that, on the basis of the conclusions adopted by this House, at one of the previous meetings of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Refugees and Human Rights has done nothing, and I think it is extremely unacceptable. We have a situation that this authority, which should take care of this very important humanitarian issue for all BiH citizens, is not legitimate, does not have a full mandate and notes that of the six members of this Management Board only two are in force..., for four, the mandate has already expired or have moved to other functions where, in accordance with the Law of Conflict of Interest, they cannot perform the function at the same time." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u565	Thank you. In the name of the address requested, would anyone like to speak to you? Then it's in writing, okay. Thank you. We move to the third point, since there are no more delegates to participate in this agenda point. Ad. 3. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011, Proposer: Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development at the 4th session, held on 29. Nine. In 2011, she discussed the Bill's proposal for a census, households and apartments in BiH in 2011. With this in mind, the Commission adopted and proposed to the House of Peoples the adoption of the following conclusion, I read: "The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH extends the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011 by 30 days from the date of adoption of this conclusion at the meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH" (completed quote). I am opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? One of the members of that committee? No, I don't. Thank you. Now we move to a vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 14 delegates present at this time in the O.R., 13 voted 'yes', one'remained'. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u569	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I will only say under this point and under point 8 that we have a state of BiH's duty at 31.12.2010, so I don't go out again, we had a session of the Committee on Finance and Budget yesterday, and one and another document was accepted to the knowledge, or adopted in the form that was delivered to you. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u570	I thank my esteemed colleague, Čović. I now give the word to the legislator of this law. Here you go. There's no need. I thank Minister Vrankić. We're moving on to a debate, I'm opening a debate, and I'm asking you to sign in if you'd like to participate. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Mr. Simić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u571	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and colleagues, gentlemen, perhaps... business will not be directly related to this topic, but about this issue I have long been plagued by a large dilemma – which is why in solving the old foreign savings system the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka have been bypassed and I think that one bank was the BEO bank. I think that this is how one great injustice, discrimination, was done, and there was no reasonable reason to save these banks from the system of solving the old foreign savings. They had the same status as old foreign savings, they lived in BiH territory. There are always arguments: it would increase debt. That is true, but given that today we will have a report on the state of debt and debt of BiH, entities, and even local communities, I believe that this amount of old foreign savings based on savings in the Bank of Ljubljana and this other bank, I do not know which one is left, would not be such as to compromise the system, and I think our obligation would be to consider this issue and see the possibility of allowing these citizens to recover their savings in an identical way, and that the state would later regulate this issue with the countries from which they encourage these banks, if it has a legal basis. I think this is a serious issue and that we have created one discrimination against citizens who have invested their resources in the previous Republic of BiH, and I see no reasonable reason why they are surrounded by this solution to the problem. Unless the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resort Ministry finds some modes,... that within the framework of the mandate it provides... The Rules of Procedure we try to propose one such law. And I believe that this injustice must be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u572	I thank my colleague Simić. Given that this is the first reading, I hope the Proposer will take this remark into account. Anyone else want a part of the discussion? No, I don't. Thank you. Now I urge you to move to a vote on this law in the first reading. Thank you. Of the 14, 14 delegates present, there were 'yes' (from Federation nine, from RS five), and with the existence of both the general and the entity majority, I find that the draft Law amending the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations based on the account of the old foreign savings was adopted in the first reading. 9 We move to the fifth point: Ad. 5. Report by the College of the People's House on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 12. 2010 At the 5th session of the House of People, held on 14. Nine. In 2011, we discussed the report on the work of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency for the period from 1. 1 to 31. 12. 2010 During the vote, the report did not receive the required majority of entity votes, so the House College agreed as a commission. You have received a report from the College of the House of Peoples, and it says that the Kolegijum has not reached its agreement. The House of Representatives has not adopted this report. In accordance with Article 73(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, we now have to vote on the report on the work of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2010. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of the votes cast by those present and voting, provided that the votes 'against' shall not contain two-thirds or more of the votes of the delegates elected from each entity. We're going to vote on... They're reporting to the agencies. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, the Agency's report voted one delegate, "against" the report voted five delegates, "maintained" eight delegates. From the Federation: one delegate was 'yes', eight were'sustained'. Five delegates from the RS were 'against'. This report has not been adopted, since there is no general and therefore no entity majority, so I find that the report on the work of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency for the period from 1. 1 to 31. 12. It wasn't adopted in 2010. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Report by the Joint Commission on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the PSBiH
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u575	Wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u576	I'm sorry. This... what Marin has prepared for me has this error, this paragraph, so that means to delete this part and from the stenogram, there is no need: The Joint Commission held at the 12th session. Nine. We're moving on. The House of Representatives adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the amendment and addition of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I now give the word to the rapporteur of the Joint Commission, Master Nermini Kapetanović, if he wants to, of course. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I apologize to you, dear colleague, but you must apply for the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u578	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Commission, considering both the amendments and the amendments to the Code, tried to reach an agreement on the same text, and in particular took care of the fact that not all elected officials were in a permanent working relationship with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and that all officials belonged to the monthly pause, regardless of their working status, so we wanted to equalise both groups of elected officials and agreed and unanimously adopted by the Amendment of the Joint Committee for Consensus, which stands before you and which reads: 'Article 22 of the position (2) changes and reads: Novni penalty may be given once in the height of up to 70% of the elected official who is not in the working relationship and does not receive a salary in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. in terms of the total salary and paid by the majority of BiH. The Joint Commission unanimously accepted this amendment and proposed text, so it proposes that this respected home adopt it and vote for it. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u579	A great thank-you to the esteemed colleague Kapetanović. Now I'm opening a debate and I'm asking you to participate in the debate, if you like. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u580	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a problem with a different approach again. What's 70% and 10%? I know what the starting point is, but this seems to me, if I'm punishing someone with 70% for the same offense because he's getting paid somewhere else, the pay difference, he's taking a shower here, and especially since the current statuses are even, I think the percentage should be the same. We've been here as long as they'll take away the money, but it's a matter of equality and access. And this one really, when someone reads to me: this one's 70%, this one's 10%! It even turns out, not getting into the final amount of the figure that's being punished, that the greater responsibility of those who take a flat break than those who are here on a regular basis and who receive salaries, which they should no longer need, but figuratively they need to work more, to be more responsible. It's a little problematic for me, and I'd like to be explained how to avoid this one, to say conditionally, anomaly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u581	All right, fellow Simić, they're still being taken from them, and they're still receiving two salaries. You're allowing this, of course...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u582	Mr. President, these are the same differences, here...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u583	Of course, I'm sorry, I wanted to relax a little. Okay. Is anyone else answering for word? A esteemed colleague, Josip Merdžo, came forward. Here you go, Comrade Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u584	Thank you very much. Well, here, in some ways as a participant, along with Mrs. Kapetanović, in the work of this commission, it may look like this at first sight, 70% and 10% point of view. But ultimately it's about the same amount. So, even one who is not professionally engaged in this home must meet and satisfy as all others who are professionally engaged in the norms of the code. And if you go to some degree of sanctions, it was seen that no one was discriminated against, either positively or negatively. And in this context, therefore, for working in Parliament if someone receives only a cobweb, then the 70% somewhere corresponds to the 10% who receives and breaks and pays, so that in the context it goes towards a single figure that would not be different depending on which status the envoy is in this home. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u585	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Merdžo. Anyone else want to take part in this discussion? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 13 delegates voted in favour, "maintained" was one delegate. There were nine delegates from the Federation. From the RS, four delegates were 'yes', and one delegate was'sustained'. With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that the Joint Commission's report on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the amendment and addition of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. We're going to the seventh point, Ad. Seven. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2010 You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission took the information into account. The House of Representatives did not receive information. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of our home to Mr Simić, if he wishes. He's giving up. Thank you. I'm now giving my word to the prosecution's motionary. Who wants to take a word from the proposer's representative? You don't want to either? Okay. I'm opening a debate now. Here you go. A esteemed colleague, Mladen Ivanić, appeared to participate in the debate. Here you go, colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u587	Dear colleagues, after a few years, here I am for the first time in my ability to talk about the prosecution's work, because I was the subject of their observation during that period, and then I felt it was incorrect for me to speak and comment, and now, because I can, and I have the right to say a few sentences. I was among those who were in favour of bringing foreign prosecutors to BiH, because I truly believed at that time that we would get true prosecutors and that we would really get the right and action of the rule of law and there would be no political manipulation and, unfortunately, made a huge mistake. The largest political manipulations, which took place, took place right through foreign prosecutors in BiH. And on the basis of this personal example, I can say it myself, and I am fully convinced that far greater was the political 13 influence of international institutions, not official international institutions, but informal circles of international institutions on prosecutors, but ever from any domestic political scene. I also know on my own example that some investigations, instead of through the competent institutions of SIPA, the RS Police, the Federation, were conducted via SFOR, are through the military institution. I know SFOR followed, filmed people, which is absolutely inappropriate in one normal country. I know that in the prosecution itself – I spent several, several, several, a month from morning till evening – there was fear of foreign prosecutors. There no one should have said anything, or spoken to domestic people who were very often out of work only if they were defending some basic principles. I know that before many of the indictments, which the foreign prosecutors specifically filed, there was a preliminary debate in the OHR. What if it's not a political influence on the D.A.'s office? And that no one has ever said a word or dared to speak of it. It reminded me deeply of the age of Stalinism, because people who want to do their job normally shouldn't, because someone tells them how to do it. I know that there have been cases, in fact on my own example, I know, only, as far as I know, all MPs in the past meeting – there is no Mr. Tihić here, I think he was the only one – have received my indictment, all the MPs of the BiH Parliament, all the MPs of the House of Peoples, all the MPs of the National Assembly. What was the point of that? But the foreign prosecutor felt that he had the right to do so and to do so. Absolute political pressure and the creation of a political environment that is completely inappropriate. No Niko wanted to talk about that word. The party I'm running is the only game that the long pipes have entered, and that's the side of the long pipe. I don't know that in the SDS. Foreign long pipes. _________(?) Guns. Now, that's possible. But then I'm talking about some time, here later when we became a democratic country. What do I mean? If we truly want to spend normal... each of us public figures must be ready to go through that kind of thing. But then the Gods and prosecutors must be prepared to pass. Everywhere in the world, it's normal for politicians to have a special kind of story, I know it. But if he gets lost, then the D.A. should lose. Then he can't do his job after that, too, because he obviously played it wrong. Like a politician after that when he's convicted can't be a politician. It's all natural, it's a game rule. It didn't happen here. And it's not normal. The prosecutor who lost my case, after five years in the OHR, then four or five years in the prosecution, and today he's not coming back to his country because there won't be anything special there, and today he's an adviser to some of the, of course, international institutions that need to teach us democracy, order and justice. I think this prosecution must once run an analysis of the role of foreign prosecutors here. There were also honest people, not only critics, there were people and of profession, but little. In time, it became an institution for hiring officials from OHR who lost their jobs and salaries there and were employed here. And from an idea that was a great idea, to bring in 14 professional people into this country and bring in truly true norms of law, it turned into a complete opposite, the greatest possible political abuse we had. So, I expect this assembly to once ask, whether the High Judicial Council, whether or not the Prosecutor's Office, should run an analysis of the role of international judges and prosecutors in BiH. Realistically to point out positive things, but God damn it and condemn the negative ones. If we don't, it'll remain one very negative episode, in my deep conviction, which will also cover the positive things that were happening there. And domestic prosecutors, I ask the judges to raise their heads, because many of them are worth more than any of those foreigners who worked there, especially those who have never been in court, and here they... have been hired as prosecutors and judges – to raise their heads and defend their dignity. I know it's worth it. This kind of statement could cost me again, but I don't care. It's human law to say that when you have an incompetent man, even if he can relieve you, you should tell him that he's incompetent. Otherwise, we become homeless people who accept everything alive, and there's absolutely no reason or need for that. So my suggestion is that the prosecution is asked to analyse the role of international prosecutors in cases, whether war crimes, or economic crime, during that period when they played a decisive role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u589	I thank Mr Ivanic. I ask you now to use the continuation of the discussion of other participants as... if in one sentence you would formulate this conclusion in writing for the Rules of Procedure that we have, that we can only put it to the vote, so that we can fulfill that form. With the hand of course, no special form is required. A esteemed colleague, Josip Merdžo, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u590	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, here in a similar way as Mr Ivanić has expressed his experiences in part, I could, not slow down all the positive things that we are, to say, watching and watching these days, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is indeed in certain areas, to say, together with the BiH Court of Justice, certain successes in the most difficult forms of solving the most difficult forms of crime. However, things should not happen that cast shadows, tarnishes, or I don't know what to do but the prosecution's work. I'm going to bring only one part here, a taxing part of the facts that happened in certain processes, for which the public knows more or less than he knows, and in some normal system, a judicial, prosecutorial, there's absolutely no room for them, or they're entering the area of illegality. So we had a situation where we determined the detention of persons who had responded neatly for years in the investigation procedure for reasons only known to the new prosecutor who was taking over a particular case. Maybe it's a coincidence, it's the same prosecutor in Mr Ivanić's case. Then, the indictment is being filed, the BiH Prosecutor's Office is pressing charges against a person who has not been heard at all in the circumstances of that act, which is directly contrary to Article 225. The law on 15 criminal proceedings in BiH. Then the prosecution in the investigation procedure, i.e. one of the prosecutors who has learned about the investigation, has received knowledge of the conduct of another crime, does not take any action even though the law obliges him to do so, so when a call is made to the VSTV with the evidence recorded, there is no room for disciplinary responsibility, but it may be more of a problem of the High Court and Prosecutor's Office. In which all areas the BiH Prosecutor's Office enters when it comes to criminal acts, it sets an example that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is carrying out an investigation and pressing charges against the works... that treat the working status of cooks in the menu of the Herzegovina-Neretva County. It's a subject covered by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Furthermore, when it comes to the opening of exceptional evidence, it shall be carried out contrary to Article 71. The CAP without the presence of the parties to which the evidence relates, without the presence of the defender. The prosecution is pressing charges against a person for whom, for example, no warrant has ever been issued for conducting an investigation. That's not in the report we're pleading today. Prosecutor's Office in Evidence Procedure, the BiH Prosecutor's Office is using art for which a written order on the conduct of art is never issued, which explicitly requires the Law on Criminal Procedure. And when the police department is already gathering evidence from the ground, then the prosecution is hiding evidence that might accidentally contribute to the defendant, although it is clear that the law and that it obliges them to look closely at the evidence that goes into service and on the burden that the prosecution is conducting investigations even after the main investigation has begun, and that's true. And then, after all this, the question arises when, and how, and what should be done, is just one conclusion of this home enough to make things better or should we really see through one full reform how it is done, how it comes to the right data, whether the information is available to the public. Because if we have a situation, and we do, that the D.A. was working against the law in some things, who's going to answer? And perhaps ultimately, it should be seen, here in the case of Mr Ivanić and some other items and some of what is coming, which is the damage caused by the institutions, or the budget of BiH institutions, based on such and similar procedures, which, for example, were conducted after four years and ended by liberating judgments. Here, I think that these are all the things that should really be carefully examined, investigated, checked these allegations freely, and then and then taken certain views and took steps to make sure that something like this does not happen, or... that we have security and faith in the way in which the BiH Prosecutor's Office, as the highest level of prosecution in this country, works and refers to possible perpetrators of criminal offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u591	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Merdžo. I don't want to rush you, but there's a lot of work ahead of us, so if there's any really interested in taking part in the debate, we might as well record it for work planning. Thank you. My dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u592	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman of this distinguished House, the Honorable Vice-President of the Chairman, the Honorable fellow Members and fellow envoys, respected ministers, deputies and all participants at this session, I will move from the point of view of this information to what is actually a fundamental role and task of the prosecution in general, and of course the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which, as stated in this report, is one Sui Genis, which implies in the sense that there is no jurisdiction, to say, in the organisational sense of the prosecutions that are lower, at entity level and entity level, at the canton level. Of course, I'm not going to speak from experience, but in fact everything that the distinguished colleagues before me have said about all these cases I know and really stand behind all of these words that I am as a citizen and as a person who has been following, let me say, for reasons of interest in the work of the judiciary in a broader sense of the word, which includes the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In fact, the prosecution's core task is to detect and prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. Of course, all of us who follow, and even from this information, can hardly see that this function is accomplished in accordance with what is prescribed in the law and in accordance with the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor's Office. Given that the D.A.'s work is really working, where prosecutors have been appointed internationally who, here we have heard a good part of the debate, simply which have been in the role of their free judgments and political pressures to file charges. Indeed, I am speaking for the reason that I have read, unfortunately for me, a certain number of accusations that I think today, if anyone knows what is right, I should say only in a formal and factual sense, and in that fact, you would not dare to give such a single charge. Of course, this all happens for reasons because, in this situation, I do not exclude domestic prosecutors by the term they are mentioned here, indeed, given that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is an authority that seeks to be independent and impartial and appoints prosecutors, it has appointed them in a way, so let us remember now who our prosecutors are at BiH level. Here it is mentioned that they are named according to the law in special departments for organised crime, for corruption in BiH-level institutions. They are prosecutors who are rewarded from municipal levels, who are either from mixed marriages, no one in this way injures anyone, it is everyone's right, but in a way that they are direct obedients and that they are truly so guided by work in certain prosecutions. To put pressure on that judiciary by international organisations, I'll tell you something on my own personal, own example. I heard from a prosecutor who told me – indeed, I don't know why against you, but I have constant pressures to press charges against you, so I said - there's no reason, it's a person who's really dependent on the law and accounts, it's loaded with the system. It doesn't matter, he says, just pick it up and let him deal. Is that the D.A.'s office? Is that the prosecution that this BiH needs? A moment ago, my colleague Merdžo said, and at the end of this debate, I think that we are enough from both these and the colleagues we still need to hear, I think we will hear enough where and where the BiH Prosecutor's Office is today to discuss the information. So in that sense, I wonder how much this BiH cost, does it lead and expose the perpetrators to prevent these crimes, to protect this 17 state order, to bring it into the system and to make BiH really a legal state or to run something else? Or maybe corruption and lay there in the BiH Prosecutor's Office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u593	I thank the distinguished Mrs. Krišto. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u594	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy, dear fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on this subject. Fortunately, I cannot speak from experience, however, perhaps from the position of someone who is able to monitor all the social processes in BiH, competent enough to say a few words about our reality in which we live. I want to believe today that 16 years after the end of the war, we are creating a system in which all citizens will be equal before the law. And ultimately, the basic postulate of every democratic state is the rule of law. When I look at this report that we have in front of us today, then we'll agree with one fact that he speaks in a dreary way about what the D.A. was doing in the previous year in all of his organizational parts as organized. However, I would not talk about it, I think it is much more important at this point to talk about the phenomena that are present in BiH in all segments of crime and crime that are of course present in each country. What every citizen in BiH should be interested in is that this type of processing cannot be any kind of vision that puts pressure on any individual. The fact is that when we look at everything as far as the end was concerned and the acquittals speak in the direction that we've ever conducted these processes. We know that one of the basic legal rules is that no one is guilty until proven otherwise and that it is better to condemn thousands of guilty than one innocent, which only speaks for what I say. I want to take a brief look around, since my colleagues have talked enough about what is currently going on in the prosecution and the role of international judges. I also believe that when we take any segment of life in BiH, with the gratitude of all the good that the international community has helped us, I think we have many and qualified and professional personnel who can bear this responsibility to reach the ultimate goal of living in a society where every citizen will feel safe enough. But the fact that so many processes are neither open nor processed to this day, and often the character of war tries to prove itself through these judgments. And this is based on the fact that both the number of convictions and the number of accused are in a huge disproportionate state when it comes to Srbin and others. I don't think there's any kind of willingness to behave the same way in all cases. For this reason, I believe that in the future period and I think that even after today's debate and what we're about to hear, we can give one incentive to come to an institution like this in the next, which, on the basis of everything that's happened today and all of these experiences, and I'm speaking from that other aspect that is present for me: what after all of this we release, after all these pressures that aren't just the pressures that apply to a judgment or something else, there are 18 moral pressures, there are all the things that a man has lost by running such processes and finally we say there's a point. That shouldn't happen in our society anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u595	I thank my esteemed colleague Rodić. My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u596	I think it is very difficult to talk about the BiH Prosecutor's Office today without touching some painful issues of BiH. And of course, it is very difficult to comment on something today rather than say that obviously in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the best manifestation of the influence of foreigners in BiH is. And we can't definitely give up the impression that obviously the BiH Prosecutor's Office is something that BiH feels the same way and something that still deeply offends us and something that divides us deep into this BiH. We cannot give up the influence, i.e. the impression that there is a tendency to influence policy and certain political parties' organisations from one part of BiH. And we cannot deny the impression that today and in Parliament itself it is very difficult to speak when both Mr Čović and Mr Ivanić and Mr Merdžo were exposed to the pressures of the international community through the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and that, if we remember, in some very important situations in BiH and in important processes in BiH. And of course, this is causing us an increased dose of suspicion that the BiH Prosecutor's Office obviously has no interest in giving answers in BiH but is giving answers to foreigners present in BiH and, of course, to some political leaders who are trying to be very important persons in BiH and that they are using this instrument in BiH as a type of pressure in various processes in BiH. I'm not going to talk about it anymore, I think that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, of course, has not been treated with aneks IV, but I want to say something that hurts us all in BiH, regardless of whether we are Srbin, whether we are Bošnjak, whether we are Hrvat. It is about the process of finding the missing in BiH and processing those responsible for the war crimes committed in BiH. And unfortunately, and on this very sensitive issue for all of us in BiH, the prosecution has again shown its true face. I will tell you that since 2008, when the Institute for Missing Persons in BiH is in office, we are not all satisfied with the results in BiH. We tried to take steps further so that, first of all, the process of finding and identifying missing persons in BiH would speed up, not knowing again, I would like to confirm that no one in BiH today knows exactly how much missing is required. And that is the political problem in BiH because the process of identifying the total number of missing in BiH is quite politically colored, and I will no longer enter it. But when an effort is made to open these issues in a universal way from the RS with the aim of speeding up the process of finding and identifying, then we have the situation that out of the 51 reports submitted by the RS Operation Team to seek the missing from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, 21 absolutely has not been launched, or an open investigation. Some of these cases were even from 2008. Whether we have the right to hold certain items so many times and so many years, that we do not determine whether at a specific location, for which there is the necessary documentation, we do not determine whether there are definitely missing persons and whether we have the right to try to do so in some way, in the interests of different categories present in BiH, let us color this or that color. As one of these examples – of course, here there is a table picture of all the reports that have been submitted to you in the BiH Prosecutor's Office – since 2008 a significant number of cases stand, without having responded 19, and the aim of the Institute for Missing Persons is to speed up the process, and you are well informed, i.e. I want to believe that you are responsible for issuing orders and the question of how and how these commands are implemented. One such example is these latest events in Bihac. Exhumation was carried out in one location where eight bodies were found. According to operational data, there are seven other bodies. Helić Nazif is a cantonal prosecutor who was in the barracks the whole time, worked at the military prosecutor's office, the process was suspended. Is the BiH Prosecutor's Office right to remain silent on this issue? A man who is also today head of the Institute's office in Bihać Begić Mujo, an identical situation that the BiH Prosecutor's Office in this most recent example has done nothing and has done nothing. ekshumacija aborted. Families are looking for 15 years of their loved ones. There is a problem: from the day the Operational Team delivers information to the Prosecutor's Office for issuing an exhumation order, at least six months have passed, and some, you have seen, and how many years. We're asking you what you're doing. Exhumation at the Lozna site, that's Mount Ozren, I'll tell you I've been recently, skulls are on the surface. The prosecution's order to exhume the RS Operational Team is issued, and then, under the influence of individuals, the BiH Prosecutor's Office's orders to do so are still the skulls, unfortunately, still several months on the surface of Ozren. The representatives of other peoples in this House are likely to have objections when it comes to the exhumation process itself and the identification process. These are all official documents from the RS institutions and on the basis of which I speak here today. There are a number of problems when it comes to postmortems, where they do not call for autopsy representatives of the RS Department of Judiciary Medicine. We have a series, that is, of course, the element of orders issued by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I don't think we have the right to sit here today without opening this issue and not asking for the full responsibility of the BiH Prosecutor's Office because this process should be accelerated, precisely for the reasons I said at the outset. The second question I want to open is trial for war crimes. Just to speed up the issue, to resolve it, there is a state strategy in BiH. We saw when we discussed the High Court and Prosecutorial Council what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council itself said. I'll remind you that you're 11. Seven. In 2011, I had a conversation with the vice-president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, and I have a memorandum here. The head of the BiH Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes has found that the BiH Prosecutor's Office does not fully adhere to the obligation to process the most complex war crimes cases in line with the criteria for reviewing and assessing the complexity of the case from the state's war crimes strategy. It's worrying in BiH. That's what the BiH Prosecution is like. The assessment was that out of the 29 indictments filed in the BiH Prosecutor's Office in war crimes cases, only nine of them were of the most complex cases, while the remaining charges... were in less complex cases. It was stressed, acting as head of the department, that no consent was given to press charges in cases that do not fall within the most complex case category, but that charges in such cases were brought to BiH's chief prosecutor's attention to achieving as good a result as possible in terms of increasing the number of war crimes charges brought. First of all, I think that we need to find out every war crime and that every war criminal has to answer, not that in a way that counts, numbers, figures and letters, 20 informs the public that something in the BiH Prosecution is doing. The discovery of the most complex cases is the key to BiH's success, the key to the BiH prosecution's success. What do we have today? It has been established that several prosecutors or prosecutors in this department have not been charged in the last two years. What are we talking about when it comes to the BiH Prosecution? On the satisfaction of the interests of foreigners, certain projects in BiH, etc., etc. What is worrying is that in the cases being conducted, here in a minute I will finish, before the Court of BiH...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u597	I give you my minute, so others don't get mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u598	Thank you. In the case, i.e. Duško Jevrić, Goran Marković and Neđo Ikonić, a protected witness S101, it was a public broadcast in the media, he clearly says that he was pressured to testify, that he was kidnapped, that they threatened to confirm the statement they say. And you know who did it? SIPA investigators Bajro Kulovac and Muriz Brkić, the BiH prosecutor's office's investigator. And we're talking about the BiH Prosecutor's Office...! And I want someone to correct me from the lawyers, under the BiH Criminal Procedure Act, the extortion of statements by the prosecution's investigators was not treated as a criminal offence. This is what kind of land we live in. And then the question arises why there are different criticisms, whether this is the impact of some other factors etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u599	Thanks, Košarac. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u600	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a report from an institution that really, by its nature, represents the Sui Genis institution in the modern legal system. It was simply ripped out of the legal system with, I'll say freely, the questionable constitutional basis of its establishment, but it exists, it works and it works. Of course, this institution operates in very complex conditions of the pores, conditions when we approach the reforms of many areas of social activities, including the judiciary, given the desire to create an independent, professional judiciary that will be in the service of citizens and create legal certainty for all who live here. Today we have a report containing those technical data that should not be the subject of interest to us. We know them, how much is done, where it is done. Here it is also necessary for us to raise the question of whether the objectives of this body, this institution, have been achieved in carrying out its laws of established obligations. The primary issue of every judicial institution is whether it is indeed independent. That's what's bothering us. My colleagues here said that this institution is not independent and they have shown and cited numerous examples where we have phenomena that this independence is really in one very serious way threatened. She is threatened by those who should have been mentors in a certain way, helping us to reach an institution that serves this country with pride. We can't escape 21 impressions that we've had political processes during this period. I don't know all the items that I could say is true, but when you take the characters that have been processed, when you take the items and, in the end, when you take the way these cases end, it is inevitably imposed as the only possible conclusion, especially when you take time, period and time in which these people are accused. Do we – that we can today and tomorrow, because we will deal with this report and next year – we must ask a question and ask for a serious analysis of whether there have been political processes in this period. If it was, it's a disaster. I remember the previous prosecutor, not about Mrs. Jadranka, but Marinko Jurčević, who I contacted professionally, a very, very professional man, who at the time shared fears, who was afraid that he had been tapped, who had even had an arrest on the ground, and that it was an action that the chief prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office did not know about it. What kind of institution is that? Is this institution independent? Well, at the end of the day, you saw how the Honorable colleague Jurčević disappeared from the prosecutor's scene. This parliament and the public deserve the answer to find out, if Mr Jurčević has done something, to say that we know, too, is that, and where Mr Jurčević was wrong, and not that we're guessing now, simply the man went to sick leave and never came back to work again. And he told me himself that he was afraid to be tapped. Major problems in this prosecution have arisen by the arrival of foreign prosecutors. I say it was people who didn't have credibility, now I can't remember all of them, here they were talking about two prosecutors, one prosecutor in the same case. Yeah, for example. I know __________(?) In two cases. in two cases, I know that this prosecutor came to Banja Luka and asked for the procession of Mladen Ivanić and that group that was related to the 'Serbian Forests'. People had no arguments to launch, then the case was excluded, came to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Of 13 people, 12 people are freed, 12 people are freed. And most tragically, since we've politicised everything in this country, when these people were supposed to leave, there's been a major political problem in BiH institutions, in the public, in the media that someone is destroying BiH because this man who has done serious damage to BiH is doing his prosecutorial work. 13 people were charged, 12 were released. And that poor guy who was convicted, I'd like the esteemed colleagues to read that verdict so they can see that he was supposed to be the same prosecutor there because he committed the crime of inciting certain people on bribery, bribery. The story was: give us Mladen Ivanić and you will be free. That same prosecutor, according to some information that hasn't been verified, last time I told them, asked for a listening to the judge of the Constitutional Court just in Mr. Merdžo's case. I'd like the D.A.'s office to tell me if it's true or not. But that was the information that was requested. You know why? Because the Constitutional Court has adopted a provisional measure in a case that has stepped down such lawlessness and such conduct. Is that true? If it's true, we need to know. If it's not true, then I'll be told that the information I received is not correct. These are all the questions that are very important here. Political persecution through the D.A.'s office really needs to be clarified whether he was or wasn't there. One of the reform segments was to get responsible prosecutors. Please, former 22 RS President Mirko Šarović has been charged. There is no lawyer who works, as Mrs. Krišto said, who is...the lowest level of the prosecution who has not seen that against Mr. Mirko Šarović there is not one element to be tried. He spent 11 months in custody, he was released, I don't know, he collected the damage, the media wrote, he was paid for, one 200,000 marks costing budget users. I'm asking if a proper sanction has been taken against that prosecutor. Whoever accuses, I apologize to Mr. Čović, Mr. Mladen Ivanić, Mirko Šarović does not, who accuses such a conditional capitalist from a political scene, if his indictment fails, he must resign, he must be resolved. It's in those cheap American movies, when you're making a career, you either fall on that class or it's working. It's nothing to anyone. And when I talk to certain people about that question, you know what they tell me -- so that's proof that there's progress in BiH, you see they're freed. Who asked Mr Ivanić what he was going through, came 50 times, spent all day, what his family had survived. Who has the right to do that? I also claim today that in the Prosecutor's Office, where I have often come to, there are such great colleagues who work both professionally and responsibly, but who created a system in which self-censorship prevailed, where people fear for their status, and we need to release the Prosecution of all disciplines to really perform freely, professionally and to stand behind their decision, and of course to be worth it. I don't know, last time someone here said there was no responsibility in the last system. Mr. Tihić used to say that because he was in the tužilaštvo's office. Then there was the math of whom how many charges were dropped. These people in that system, one-party, where there was stronger self-censorship than it was supposed to be today, were having controversies if there were a yearly four-five charges that fell. No one here today has ever been responsible for these great charges. And in the end, I'd like to say something that might be a relief to the prosecution. I am aware that after the war, not only in the area of law but in all areas, there has been a halt in the profession. There's less and less professional people. There's less and less quality people. And I know, since working in the RS Parliament I was involved in all of these reform processes, that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council had big problems finding high-quality judges, high-quality prosecutors. We had an anomaly that people who were rejected two or three times in various elections later became judges of the Supreme Courts. No frames. We're here... because in a certain way, from the aspect of the party, we created to prey on our own people, forgetting where and who we should be. Professionalism in these relationships has been put aside for us. There's one more thing I'd like to say, though maybe this isn't where I should be talking about war crimes. Of course I support the prosecution's work in that direction, I can't deal with this information that Mr. Košarac made, but there's something that bothers me. It's very easy to move charges of genocide. We lawyers do this job and we know what genocide is. It's to skip eight meters, prove some genocidal intent. So go only from the verdicts in The Hague. Mr. General Krstić was convicted as an aide to genocide. And here every day is genocide. Find out in history how many people are convicted of genocide. It's a very difficult charge that has such shades, and basically nothing that qualifications is easier than the qualifications of criminals and humanity from the Statute, Article 5 of The haški, and has been passed on to us, because the crime against humanity is also a terrible crime. Every war crime is a terrible crime. And I don't know, I'm ending up, which is why we're so easily bringing some interference into this... I hope that next year's report will have little of that data and answers to these questions that deserve it, and I support those who believe that these issues should be cleared up in order to improve the work of the Prosecutor's Office and better relations in BiH. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u602	Thank you, Mr. Krstan Simić. I call for Mr. Ognjen Tadić's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u603	I thank my esteemed colleague, Čović. Since ancient times, there have been very important sayings, which of course I will not quote here that someone would not consider me conceited, which are summed up in a sentence here near the country of Montenegro, which they say: as the coat of arms does not correct it. There's a lot of common organs, a lot of so-called. The institution, there is much in BiH that the coat of arms was born. There is no way to create anything and produce a legal or legitimate result, unless it is in conformity with the Constitution of the country in which it is created. When someone as a lawyer accepts a job in an institution he knows has no foothold in his country's fundamental law, the principle of independence and independence has already been questioned, then other motives are raised for which someone takes over the job. If you do not have respect for the Constitution of your own country and its laws, respect for the fundamental human and civil rights and everything that this Constitution guarantees, then that person will hardly do his own legally established job. So don't be surprised. Not because the situation is like this, but because the situation will not change after these fates were carried out by Mr. Ivanić, Šarović, Čović, Merdžo, many others, not after a number of raised and failed proceedings, nor after a number of convictions which, as the only result, had personal abuse of people, their families and huge damages, nor after certain members of certain peoples for war crimes are tried when they have to. That's not gonna change. Your arguments are shot blank. This Parliament and this home at this time cannot do anything on this plan and do not be hypocritical to the public of this country and say that it is different. Why? Because he's in the middle of an outlawed institution syndrome in this country. The Regulatory Agency for Communications responds to Parliament's both homes that our conclusions are illegal, so that it will not implement them. The D.A. is listening to us because it has to, in terms of debate. High court and prosecution advice on your own. Who gives support to such behavior? I can assume and do so on my own behalf, so those who in different ways and channels abuse a personal position to influence their work, but so tomorrow would look like BiH if only they were asked. And that's why BiH will never be like that, because we see three institutions that there would seem to be no such parliament, no House of Peoples, no entity vote, no vital national interest and everything else. They failed a well-meaning test by all those who influenced the work of institutions that, by force of opportunity and by force, could ignore the views they heard in this House. We vote today on a report signed by a man who recently, in a street jargon dictionary, fell. They took a picture of him with, apparently, arms dealers. He was the boss of these people, here's his signature, here's his seal, so what are we talking about? Against this man, Mr Barašin, rose in public in one part of BiH, even part of an entity, such a campaign as if it were a world-class criminal. Of course until yesterday he was praised. And for his report in the House of Representatives, only MPs from that part of the entity vote. Strangely, they may not vote 24 on him, perhaps some other prosecutor's policy was conducted besides him, perhaps this BiH Prosecutor's Office and does not have a single professional policy, criminal policy, and every other one that is required to have in the spirit of his profession and the enforcement of the law. There's only one question here that depends on the answer to this problem. The question is provocative, and the answer must be sincere. To whom, ladies and gentlemen, prosecutors, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, on whose behalf were all these things spoken by fellow predecessors? Why is it that when this is the land of all the people who live in it and when? If you are able to answer these questions honestly, then BiH will be better. You know why? Well, because then at least it'll look like a state of law. It is not this parliament that is responsible whether this country is a legal state or not. Look, we can't order anything from you. You're law enforcement. But the citizens look at us and say, "Why isn't there a rule of law?" If you have objections to a law passed in this House, say so and we will fix it. If there's anything that bothers you to do your job the way that it would really be if there weren't these remarks you just heard, we're fixing the moment. But listen to the remarks spoken of, be better for all the people of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u604	Thank the chairman, fellow Tadić. Mr. Tihić signed up for the next word. Mr. Tihić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u605	Honorable delegates, envoys, guests, here I want to say a few words about the prosecution's work, and I feel obliged to consider my profession until '92. A year. We've heard various, in my opinion, easily given reviews, negative assessments of the prosecution's work, although I with certain grades and negative grades can agree, but the fact that this view is only on one side, and that's the other side that the prosecution didn't do well. And they may agree, especially when it comes to certain charges, charges against significant and responsible people, members of the presidency who fell, where their personal and social reputation was questioned, that someone must therefore answer. Back in the day, in that system when I was a prosecutor, it answered. You couldn't have had a lot of negative charges without still being a prosecutor. But we have to look at this thing from the other side, you know. Here's Mr. Krstan Simić said that after the war, after all that had happened in many institutions, not only the judicial institutions but other state institutions, he got in everything and everything. Something is there, international organisations were doing something, giving some certificates, removing those... who entered those institutions, later being accused of crime or war crimes. When we observe the work of the D.A. and all the judicial institutions, we need to know that a huge job, a big job, was found in front of them. You know, there's been a war, there's been major casualties, there's been major crimes, there's not a single far more orderly country with more judges and prosecutors, etc. And normally that's where certain maybe misss happen, easy going into indictments, pressing charges, etc. Well, the very frame that was real after the war, it seems to me, it wasn't the level that was pre-war, it seems to me, how much we cared about it and how hard it was to pass a judicial exam to be a judge, so you were going through needle ears there on those commissions. 25 I am personally when a reform of the judiciary was made with objections and criticism and I was then warned by the OHR, I know that even the gentleman... told me - Mr. Tihić, do not, say, interfere, it is a political influence in the court. And I stopped talking about it. But what's there is, you know, we have the D.A.'s office, we have judicial institutions that have done a great deal of good work, you know. A lot has been done in the interest of justice, in the interest of truth. They've been punished for some crime, for war crimes. Far more good things have been done than these individual negative things I'm talking about, where there have been mistakes, and in all the jobs where it's wrong, you know. Here I am personally, and we don't need to, you know, share criminals here, or war criminals by ethnicity. They are not Srbin, nor Hrvat, nor Bošnjak, nor Muslims, nor Catholics, nor Orthodoxs, they are simply criminals and they are criminals. I know in the Bosnian Boat when I was there, Zvjezdan Jovanović was a national hero, he was master of life and death there. And you saw what he did - he killed his prime minister. Therefore, simply, a criminal is a criminal, a war criminal is a war criminal, he has no nation or faith. If he had faith and believed, he wouldn't do these things, especially I'm talking about convicted war criminals, not those who are accused and later released. Personally, here I am, for 10 years, the president of the SDA, mostly the largest political party in BiH, believe I don't know any prosecutors. I've sat down with Mr. Barašina once in my life, had a cup of coffee, that's the only prosecutor I've ever had, to say the least, shake hands and sit down and have coffee with. And now I don't know who it is who can and who has the right to influence the work of the judiciary. There's a lot of talk about that influence, about the independence of the judiciary, the prosecution. I'd like to know who he is, who he is, and how he influences and that the influence is normal, but also possibly the judge or prosecutor who might fall under that influence. I mean, I disagree with those who question the constitutional basis of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court here, these are the institutions of sui generis, special, special courts and prosecutors formed in certain times and certain occasions, but the BiH Constitutional Court has made it clear that there is a constitutional basis for the establishment, and for the establishment, and the adoption of this law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. You know, if we're calling on Dayton, then don't take anything now, and we're not taking anything from that Dayton. We must accept the decisions of the Constitutional Court no matter how much they agree or disagree with them. I believe that here is this debate and these criticisms that have been made, even though we as delegates need to guard these individual cases, the evaluations. The question is how did you inform us? Here, and I find myself in some way competent to talk about specific objects, but I would never let myself talk about any specific object, you know, because I don't have all the elements of it, neither is this opportunity, nor is it a place to talk about any object whether it should have been done like this or not. And I don't know, when it comes to missing, we all have to give one piece of support to both the D.A. and the institutions to find everyone missing... in the past war that hasn't been found yet. Now that more Bošnjak have been found than others, members of other nations, they are all victims of war and suffering. Probably because most of the victims were killed, most of the victims were on that side. But we have to look for all those who have disappeared, regardless of ethnicity and we have to give support to institutions, here's if we need more financial support, and what Mr. Tadić said, if we need something in the legal sense to change things so that we can speed things up in that direction. Therefore, in the end, I would like to say that this debate that has been conducted, no matter how critical and sometimes some grades are less or more easily given, will certainly have an impact on the future work of the Prosecutor's Office, and that the prosecution will certainly draw and learn from these cases which have ended with acquittals. But there will always be cases of acquittals, which we have in far-developed countries, but it should be as small as possible. 26 You know, it can't be and there are rare situations that a member of the presidency, I know, here's my colleague, I apologize for mentioning, Mirko Šarović ultimately accused a man of being in prison for a year, in custody, and finally being released. It's one serious mistake that can't happen in serious justice, but I hope that such mistakes and failures will be less and less, but don't let us deny these institutions now and all the good that they've done, you know. We also have entity levels and, I don't know, county courts, cantonal courts, and peas. So remember you and the indictment, when I speak of names, against Mr. Dodik, how many charges were charged, so he was released. So, there are mistakes in the judiciary everywhere, but don't just channel them in one direction and because of these certain peas, which should be less and less, we completely deny that institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u606	I thank Mr. Tihić. I must inform you that today's work has been planned to stop the session at 12.45 for the religious obligations of a number of delegates, and we will continue at 1400 hours. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we can continue our work. As far as I can tell, the quorum is satisfied. Yes, it is. Thank you. The correcting of the wrong allegations was reported by distinguished colleague Krstan Simić, of course, unless he gave up taking a break, and there is no Mr Tihić here, so perhaps you should wait for Mr Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u608	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u609	Okay, thank you. Dear Mr Hasan Bećirović came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u610	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will, given the time spent, try to really be as short as possible and condense what I think if I succeed. Namely, by respecting all this that has been stated on the occasion of this report, not, of course, entering individual cases, deeply respecting everyone's experiences, by my deep conviction we should perhaps, perhaps we should lead the debate in another direction. In fact, I am convinced that the judicial institutions, and within that and the Prosecutor's Office, are the expression of society as a whole and with all the weaknesses 27 that society has as a whole. However, the fact is, and I am deeply convinced that the prosecution is not fulfilling its function, not because they won't, of course there are probably such individual cases, but I think that we are the ones who created this institutional framework for their action. We are the ones who have taken action since the war, I'm sorry, you are, not me, I am not, who have taken action when it comes to these institutions, when the conditions of these people are secured for work, and we unfortunately continue, and by real economic indicators and by perception, we belong to the most corrupt country in Europe. The question is, how is that possible? Either we've really provided conditions for them so they don't, or they don't really do their job where they need to do it. Unfortunately, for me, it is a far more important issue in which and how to help the institutions of the judiciary than a legislative body that creates institutional frameworks to ensure that the opinion, perception and real state of play in terms of corruption and crime in this country is reduced to a bearable measure. According to the latest surveys in BiH, more than 30% of the social gross product is in the so-called The gray economy, in the dark, and there does whatever it wants. That's about 8 billion a year. Of which about the state belongs, I mean all levels of the state, about 60%. So that's 4-4.5 billion dollars that swims somewhere. Not to mention other forms of organized crime and corruption. And I'm more of a supporter to see what's necessary on our part to provide these people with conditions to do their job effectively, with all the weaknesses they have. But I'll remind you, during the war and right after the war, you couldn't exactly go to the D.A. and the Court of Justice if you hadn't brought a membership card to a particular political party. It's my experience, because we have some experience. What I'm saying is that the level of expertise and professional performance in this institution is the same as in all other activities in this country, because unprofessional people, unprofessional people are present to us in other places. And then who are these people dependent on? They're not from me, believe me. Let's see who did them then and how I depend that they can't do their job effectively. So what I was going to say is, I'm more than just trying to see what it is in the legislation that we should possibly do, and that's what we should do if we need to initiate or ask them to do it to make them more effective in doing the task they've been set up for. What are the human and material assumptions that need to be provided for them to be effective? For that reason, I think that every truth has two sides and that we need to think twice. I'm undermining again, deeply respecting all this that's been said forward, these individual cases, I have no intention of entering them because I don't even know them. And in the end, something that I'm esteemed: my colleague Krišto, I was really in a dilemma about whether I should rephrase you, so I didn't, I gave up my own courtesy, but I'm going to say it in a discussion. To claim that the D.A.'s office is, as you said, mostly similar from mixed marriages, indicating that you have nothing of course against it, etc., at least it's unexpected of you. It's similar to someone, if they're similar, someone installed them. Believe me, I'm not. And for me, there's nothing more natural about marriage, and for me, at least a natural marriage between a man and a woman and he can't be mixed. In my view, marriage could possibly be mixed between two species, and that is neither in our tradition nor in our culture, nor in Bog and humans. And I think at the very least it's unacceptable to say one of those grades by fenced as if they weren't being discriminated against. I would beg you don't, don't, because too much of this topic has been exploited, it's too much of an ugly word said, we shouldn't need it in this house to share people in this way. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u611	I thank my esteemed colleague Bećirović. An esteemed colleague, Borjana Krišto, appeared to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u612	Thank you very much. Here, as the esteemed colleague said that he was in a dilemma, I was in a dilemma before he said that dilemma, too, to report for this replica, or correction of the false assumption. I mean, through this I have no intention of saying what the definition of marriage is, I think we all know here and it's prescribed. I won't, it's well known what I meant and I support it by fact, because it's through interviews and biography asked people from which nationality the husband comes from or... which nationality is the husband. Well, that's what I meant. I don't mean anything ugly about marriages that are called mixed, and in my sense, words are marriages that are from two nations. So, in that sense, so much. But Mr. Bećirević now said something, that it was us who created the conditions, that we were the ones who brought that framework. Indeed, the legislative authority creates this framework, but I now see it alluding to those in power. I'm now getting the impression and I'm really ready here to say that we've made a major failure which, while we've been in power, we've created preconditions and assumptions for an independent, impartial and professional judiciary, while some of us, under cover of independence, have contributed in one other way, including that we have this kind of justice today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u613	I thank Mrs. Krišto. A distinguished delegate named Mehmed Bradarić appeared for the word. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u614	I have to admit that after all these discussions, I'm a little bit sad and unhappy because I know that without an independent judiciary, we don't even have a front door in Brussels, and no one has the right to say that we don't care about that. The independence of the judiciary, the prosecutions certainly cancel and destroy political statements. Today we've heard a lot of political statements, and that's why I'm saying I'm scared. Of course, and I say, I deeply respect these individual cases, individual examples of colleagues who have brought out today, and I believe that, to their satisfaction, the general satisfaction of all, is done. What kind of trauma they've experienced, they're the only ones who know. But I'm sure this country is full of crime. In a country where everyone says, the relevant annual reports say that you have a lot of, or that we are somewhere in 91st to 97th places by corruption, by crime, where they place us with some sort of Šri, Lanko, I don't know either, Sri Lanka, Svazilend, I don't know any more of what kind of bati or buti. Or that, according to the EU report, we stand very badly and that we may even be the most corrupt state. Then on that side, I'm afraid the judiciary, the prosecution, might lose its independence. It must not really lose its independence when it comes to Zijad Turković's criminal group, but I am afraid of political pressures because both frogs and sparrows and birds, I don't know everything who knows, that 29 people, that organized crime is doing, I'm afraid that the political pressures of a man don't come out on the street and that we all have damage. Also, we're aware there's a lot of it in the police force. Here's a case of commissioners who went to prison and everyone there in Grahovo knows that he brings out every last cubic of the forest with his uncles and I'm afraid politics won't bring him back to the same place as Vjekoslav Vuković. I'm sorry, but a man has been punished in Croatia, no one has the right to say he's unjust, I'm not sure he's not being punished. I don't believe there were any political pressures for man to return to his post, etc. I know in Doboy that the man in the court, in fact, in prison, was the man in charge, so he left only on the other side of the lock and I don't believe politics will do anything to get him out of jail. Or at the Department of Direct Taxation, we all know that there are wicked acts there, and now you've got an assistant director of some kind of management who lives in Novi Sad, who they say is a criminal and I'm not sure that politics is this way, as long as we have the judiciary independent, that politics won't try to get those people out of prison. When it comes to war crimes, there's also the War Crimes Department, only an independent judiciary can do that. Oh, my Bog, please, it's an appeal to resolve the Bihac question, to resolve the Podrinj question, to resolve the Srebrenica issue. We know it's going hard, really, we don't get in the way of solving these problems, but we know that there are objective problems because witnesses go missing, and they're the key to all of it. And here we are, asking you to make a real effort so that we don't have a chance like this anymore, either unilaterally or, I don't know, we're having a cheerleading debate. People have problems here. You've seen, they've got a problem with space, they've got a dactylograph problem. It was unclear to me, so I've read it three or four times, please answer me what the problems are. And that's something we need to solve, which we need to help people get rid of, etc. So let's really make sure that the judiciary stays independent. Political statements won't do it, but make sure it's in all our best interests to keep it that way. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u615	I thank Mr. Bradarić. I'm sorry, I think I have an obligation to say that no one is guilty until proven guilty and that any debate from this House is not understood as pressure to condemn or release someone. Dear counterpart Krstan Simić reported on the replica. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u616	Thank you, Mr. President. I also have a replica for Mr. Bradarić and a respected colleague of the Tihić. Mr. Bradarić, I fully agree with you that we have a state that is by corruption at the top. The fact itself indicates that we did not create an effective and therefore professional judiciary. That's what my colleague was talking about, sharing all our institutions, all our professions. I, when I spoke today, and I have a feeling that when everyone was saying, they all had the same goal -- independent justice. There are data that this judiciary, through certain procedures, suggests serious suspicions that we have even had political persecution here. That's terrible, if that's true. What we said today can and should be interpreted as supporting the prosecution, not assault. We claim that three members of the Bureau were tried, none were convicted. That Mr Dodik was tried -- was not convicted, 30 that the foreign minister was tried -- was not convicted. It's a very serious indication that we have a judiciary that's not independent. And you're saying that because today you have a fear that it won't happen that this current most powerful trial doesn't end with pressure. This is a message to the judiciary, or to the D.A., that it should be independent but that if they want help, when we talk about justice, the D.A.'s office, I speak at all levels of government, it must ask for our support. I'd like to hear that they weren't independent, that they were under pressure when it comes to these people. I'd like that, because we, and you, and me, and everybody here, would have the answer to that question. We keep talking independently, and no one's gonna tell who's putting pressure on them. Who? We need to know that, because that's the data, I just said that the prosecutor was coming to Banja Luka who excluded the case because they weren't allowed to pursue Mladen Ivanić. I repeat this to you again. He came, he asked. How does the BiH prosecutor's jurisdiction to enter the RS prosecutor's office in the first place if he doesn't take over the case? He comes in, intervenes to prosecute Mladen Ivanić. That's the stuff we're talking about. I fully agree with you that these questions should be answered. So I have a feeling that Mr. Tihić also misunderstood, this is not an attack on the prosecution, this is the opening of a problem from the aspect of society, social relations and the desire for us as a society to participate in solving these problems, so that these problems can be resolved. That's the point of this. I completely agree that there have been brilliant judgments, that there have been brilliant procedures, but you have procedures that cast a very, very difficult shadow of what is well done. I agree that we have to go that way. And I'm one of the people who gave the judiciary a lot through this judicial reform. All the laws passed by me, all those international organizations, I supported it with all my strength, all my strength. Here, sit down, pals, and let them say I've ever called someone to ask. No, no. If I had called someone to intervene to elect a judge, here's someone to call me, I'll resign to this office, that I've called someone. No, I don't. But it happens to us that we have a condition that isn't good. We have a condition that we all disagree with and...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u617	Mr. Simić, it's time. I'm sorry, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u618	... I had two replicas, and Bradarić and Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u619	You learned to use replicas on the block.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u620	Thank you. Therefore, don't understand this because today I am even extremely pleased with the whole intensification of this discussion and I consider it a support to the prosecutions of all as BiH-level institutions, from those of the municipalities to these states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u621	Thank you, Mr Simić. A prominent delegate, Josip Merdžo, appeared to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go, Mr. Merdžo. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u622	Oh, here, a little bit. Mr. Bradarić touched, in a way, more political connotations, statements concerning today's debate. I was really careful in my presentation, and I never once, not on the ethnic field, not on the political field, turned away. But to point out an apparent violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I think it is correct and it requires certain answers and steps. So there can be no problem with the dactylographs that the prosecution is pressing charges against a man who has not been heard for a certain crime. It's no problem for a dactylograph to hide the evidence. That's what I want to point to, no matter what side. If we open this issue, so here, if you have two prime ministers in one case county, three police ministers, three commissioners, four years, and people are freed, and during that time they are basically blocked during any professional or political career, then there are policies.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u623	I thank Mr. Merdžo. For a word, i.e. a correction of the wrong allegation, the distinguished delegate Mr Ivanic appeared. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u624	Well, I should tell my colleagues, who told... stories of individual cases, how I and how I kept both ethnic and jurisdictional, and anything else. But I can't help but say that the greatest abuse came from people who were supposed to bring democracy to us. Of the people who, me, Hasane, and Alija Behmen signed consent, so both SDP and PDP participated in creating that environment to bring foreign prosecutors, believing that we were doing a good thing for this country, that we would get quality. And we open up space for people who make money on our torture by working from police experts, through experiments in OHR, to prosecutors, and they never did that in their own countries. It's not a defense, it's not a Bosnia, it's not an institution, it's nothing. It's the mere cover of incompetent people looking for a place. And woe be to him who found himself in their way and had the courage to tell them that what they were doing was not good. He had to pay those prices. It's not normal for military troops to follow key politicians. It's not normal for them to be filmed. It's not normal to investigate not in SIPA, which is a state body, but at SFOR base. That's not normal stuff. It's not a normal thing for me to say publicly without someone investigating it, that before the indictment was filed, there was a conversation in the OHR. That's not normal. Someone would have to check it out. It's a violation of the law, and I say so. Now, that's not a blow to the institution, so I've finished my speech by asking the local, professional people to raise your head and don't be afraid of anyone. I know the price of many good prosecutors and judges being no longer judges because they had an attitude, so one group of semi-literate officials replaced them. There are also those who deserve to be replaced, that we understand each other, but there are honest and responsible people who were good prosecutors, good ones, and they had an attitude, and as soon as they had an attitude, they were replaced. We know that, and I, and you, all of us, and it has nothing to do with ethnic, national, political, or any other attitude. Domestic people need to lift their heads because many of them are worth more than those who come under the company of great experts... These are naked officials who have nothing in their country to do. And don't let it be interpreted as a blow to someone, some institution, I even call on the contrary, but I can't understand that the work that is in the jurisdiction of the municipal primary 32 court will be declared a key piece for the BiH Court just because it's a politician. Well, that's, don't, so I think it's a terrible political abuse. It can't be defined differently. It doesn't matter who was the victim of these things, but it's political: the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, it's taken by the Court of Justice of BiH, and it's like it's going to be promoted by the Court. So it only develops mistrust in an institution that we objectively needed and could significantly help raise the public. I'm sorry, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u625	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivanic. An esteemed colleague, Dragan Čović, appeared to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go, Mr. Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u626	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the specificity of the topic and of everything you said I did not answer for a word in the debate, but I cannot keep my mouth shut in my best interest, although I hope that Mr. Bradarić has similarly wanted to point out problems, because the whole debate today is not good, even I think it is inadmissible and that is why I came out here – that Mr. Vuković's name is mentioned in any context in this speaker, and now Mr. Merdžo has helped us because of the sensitivity of the job he is doing and for that, if nothing else, which judgment against Mr. Vuković has been annulled. It doesn't exist like that. Now, Mr. Merdžo told us from the Mostar County full of four years, the BiH Court of Justice on exactly 101 arrivals at the Court of BiH came three prime ministers, three commissioners or police directors, or two and two interior ministers. In those four or five years they were prevented from doing their job and each other, equally Mr. Vuković was prevented from doing his job until the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia... had annulled the verdict, now I do not know exactly the organisation of the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia, the court in Rijeka, I think. And for that reason, here's why I went out for a pay phone, because that's how we make a disastrous message to all those who want to abuse BiH's judiciary institutions. The best way has just been to press charges against some person, three or four-five years to function normally and live. So, here, I'm going to ask you to appreciate that, when that verdict and if it ever does, I don't think it will ever be, but if it's right, then we'll talk about it differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u627	I thank Mr. Čović. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u628	I have no intention of interpreting the judgments of the court and the solutions, etc., but I do know that the verdict against Vjekoslav Vuković has not been annulled, it has only been reinstated for some of the prosecution's failures and will be remanded in court. There, just so much, but I've really tried not to speak hazyly but I've tried to develop some fear of what people tell us. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u629	I apologize to you, Mr. Bradarić. Did you sign up for breach of the Rules of Procedure or was that a mistake?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u630	It's nothing. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u631	It's the replica. Okay. Just finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u632	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u633	That's it. All right. Thank you. ... An esteemed colleague, Halid Genjac, called for the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u634	Thank you. Somewhere at the beginning of today's debate, I think the debate started one that was worrying about me, at least. In fact, it has been said that acceptance of the work in the Prosecutor's Office is in agreement with the anti-constitutional action and agreement with the anti-legislative action. I don't think it's a place for such grades here in this high house because the Constitutional Court's verdict is also known, the content of the law is known, jurisdiction is known, etc. and thus discredit all the people who work in the Prosecutor's Office do not contribute to the debate that needs to give real content and real contribution to the improvement of the justice system. I find much of the debate truly a sincere urge to improve the work of the prosecution. I have witnessed Mr Ivanić's actions and conduct all this time. Indeed, as long as the case was current, he never even spoke in the Parliamentary Assembly about the matter. In every profession and place there are honorable and dishonest people, there are professional and unprofessional people. The worst thing is when those two get mixed up and they blend together, the worst results are. I, unlike some, don't see any space for mystification or any conspiracy. Before I see a place where certain people who found themselves in the wrong place used the prosecution for their own personal or perhaps group interests. And we need to talk about it here in the House of Peoples, not in a way that we treat specific cases and we need to consider, but about the phenomenon that we point out above all, so that those who are dishonest and unprofessional in the future think carefully about what they will do and that it is a reminder to them. At the same time, I see much of the debate as really supporting the prosecution and trying to improve it. In the end, there's one question I can't ask, unless there's a D.A.'s representative here, he's simply asking for an answer. On the pre-late page of this report, which is about the state of crime in all BiH prosecutors in '06,'07,'08,'09, and '10. A year, one very interesting thing. So, received reports in '06, '07. And '08. It was about 30,000, '09. - 104 thousand, and again '10. About 30 grand. Charges filed in '06, '07. And '08. About 20 grand again, '09. - 66,000 and 34 again in '10. - Nineteen thousand. I'd like someone from the D.A.'s office to answer me, this is an interesting phenomenon, what happened that year, and why it was that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u635	I thank my esteemed colleague, Genjac. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the work of our session has been joined by a senior delegation of the Kuwait National Assembly headed by the deputy president of the National Assembly, His Excellency Abdulah Yusuf Jusuf-Al-Runi. I ask you in an adequate way to welcome their presence. [[APLAuz]] I hope that, rather than say by the expressions of our faces, they will see that we are having a constructive debate and that, of course, we welcome them and wish them all well. Make yourselves at the Kingdom Hall. We continue to work on this agenda point. Since there are no more applications for participation in the discussion, I am concluding the debate and in this section I ask first of all, does anyone from the D.A. want a certain kind of comment? I can see he doesn't want to. Can you? Chief Prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u640	No need, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u641	I thank Mr. Čović. I give my word to the motionary, if he's present. And Mr. Vrankić of the ministry doesn't think it's necessary to address it. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. The honorable delegate Mladen Ivanić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u642	At this session, I won't be long, since I've talked a lot about it on this committee, so I have no intention, but there's only one thing I have to say: in 2008, the total debt was 4 billion 240 million, at the end of 2010, 6 billion and 250 million. In two years, BiH's debt to abroad increased by 50%, in just two years by 50%. It's a terrible responsibility for the government, excessive borrowing, and when you look at the structure of everything, 14% of the debt goes into investment for the development of the economy, what it can repay, everything else is public spending. There can be no more direct warning that we are going towards Greek syndrome than this one. With 4 billion and 200, at 6 billion and 200, 2 billion in two years. And I guarantee you that the Information that the Ministry has done well does not collect all the data in the municipalities, because it depends on the volunteering that anyone will report it and that the public debt is far greater, not far away, significantly higher, and especially that it will be larger if considered in 2011. It's a dramatic task. Just look at these graphics, and you'll see that it's this kind of exponential growth. I have a feeling that this is all completely out of control and following up on an unprecedented concept of duty. If you look at one of these interesting data scenarios, what happens if the entire IMF tranche is used. In the case of the use of the IMF tranche 2014, BiH, which otherwise returned about 300 million annually, is due to return one billion and 100 in one year. People, where will they find 700 million marks of free money like this and these entities?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u643	With all due respect, Mr. Ivanić, I'd like you to escort our guests.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u644	Okay, I'm sorry. They don't have this debt back problem, because they give money, so they probably don't find it that interesting. [[Common discussion]] They left right away. I can see that. The Srbin always cause trouble, my Hasane, did you see? You think you're strong and they're strong! So, what I'm saying is, we are tired and we've done a lot today, one billion and 100 million, we don't let Bog put us in a position to get that back. And you know what the problem 37 is when you have 100 million minus in your budgets, and in principle if this really happens – compared to the usual stuff, it was 300-400 a year, so I don't believe that it's ever been 400 and some million tranches a year in BiH – in one year one billion and 100 million, it's hard for us! And this, I don't blame anyone, at least these BiH organs, are far more responsible entities, they're the ones who are most in charge of it. BiH if it gets 10% satisfied. And I'm not saying that I'm still convinced that there's a lot of hidden debt at the lower level of government that's not mentioned at all, and that includes the public sector itself. That's it, I don't have a suggestion of a conclusion, but an attempt to take this job more seriously than we understand at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u646	I thank Mr Ivanic. It might be interesting for guests to fully understand everything, because there was the President of the Budgetary Commission of the National Parliament Kuwaite Adele Abdul Aziz Al-Al-Savi who practically has Kuwait's money, so, yes, but good. I thank Mr Ivanic. A esteemed colleague, Josip Merdžo, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u647	The issue of responsibilities is certainly one of the most important issues for each country and what Mr Ivanić has raised, and on the basis of the report here, this trend of sudden debt, or growth, is certainly not a good indicator, although in some absolute amounts someone will say that BiH is not an excessively in charge of the state. But knowing what our economy needs to be afraid of these trends and do everything to reduce them, however, the fact that very little percentage of the funds is engaged in, let me say, the achievement of what is called excess values as opposed to public spending. We know, for example, that significant credits have been granted for the realisation of large infrastructure projects, particularly Corridor Vc. We know that there are, I don't know, obstructions, impediments to the realization of that project, and that money is being paid by the state for a certain penalty. And did that sort of burden this whole picture, our duty, or, I don't know, that maybe the opportunity for the minister to be here or sometimes explain to us when and how progress can be made in this area? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u648	I thank Mr. Merdžo. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u649	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, here's a few words I'd like to say on this subject. After this previous analysis of the situation, to put it this way, on the upgrade of society, I think this topic deserves also an extremely high attention from delegates, as it speaks of the overall state in which BiH is currently in place. What's very interesting to me here 38, and I have to say that the information on the work that we have ahead of us is very comprehensive, with a lot of indicators and I think that certain thoughts of people who have been doing this information in the direction that it continues to provide answers to certain questions. But also the fact that, at this point in time, between 2007 and 2010, BiH retained external debt indicators at a sustainable level, while the ratio of external debt in the gross social product of around 22% classified BiH as moderately in charge countries. If we looked at it this way, then we could say that the state isn't as alarming as it looks. However, when we see all the other indicators that tell us what state BiH is in, then it is very clear to us that right now is the moment where we bring in certain planning documents for next year and that we react to these phenomena. When I say that, then I base myself on two important indicators, which is that the apparent growth in the debt, that the apparent growth of investment and what is at this point particularly alarming is that the huge number of these assets and the debt that we've got is just going into public consumption and there's no new value being created. Otherwise, when we look at this borrowing right now, it binds to itself those assets that don't go directly from the original incomes and taxes and that it may be invested in a certain part and in the future of this country, and normally no modern state works without this kind of borrowing. However, we must always take care of only once – that this part must go to the most part in the base, to produce those effects from which social peace will also be preserved in this country. Therefore, in the end, we had a meeting of the Commission on Finance and the budget of the People's House, a very comprehensive debate, heard a lot of things, and we also got certain responsibilities in the coming period, but I think what is most important is to make a certain borrowing strategy in some future period and thus try to bring what is now in BiH, this degree of responsibility, into certain control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u650	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr Rodić. A distinguished delegate, Stjepan Krešić, appeared in the word. Here you go, Mr. Krešić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u651	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the Public Debt and Duty Information in BiH should be understood by us as an alarm to consider how to proceed. Is this particular data accurate? Probably, this ministry of what it had to do with, it made information. According to the records, we're a low-indebted state, which is good. Is in this information the responsibility of the citizens, according to this formula, the duty of the citizens if added to this figure should be significantly higher and should warn us that for example. The neighbouring state of Croatia has a government debt of up to 15 per cent in that public duty, and that in these other citizens and businesses, etc. increases that debt to an alarming amount. Here in BiH, if we count what citizens are obliged and what businesses are obliged to do, I think this responsibility would be much more unfavourable. It's not a problem that you go into loans, investment in terms of debt, and you need to go into debt, you need to do highways, you need to do everything because it's a developmental driver, the problem will be if we take that debt, and we can't service these loans, they come quickly for payment. The only solution is the debt reprogramme. Probably, those who made the plan, they've already made it clear that the debt needs to be reprogrammed, because in a year, two days, it won't be possible to pay back 1.1 billion a year, when for example. The federal budget is about 1.7 billion marks. So this report is quite correct, and it lets us know that for future purposes, we need to think about how much money we owe 39... we need to invest, that this money that's being invested and that we can and can repay, or that we can service our duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u652	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stjepan Krešić. I can see there are no other applications when it comes to delegates, so I'd like to give the word to the distinguished minister, Mr. Vrankić. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u653	Dear Chairman, chairing, distinguished representatives and guests, I welcome you all together. And here, I'm glad that today's theme and thank you to all those who have recognized that this information has been made in quality. We have recognized the importance of these activities in the Ministry for a long time, so that's how we came to this job. This can be one basis for a total of one broader analysis and the taking of political and macroeconomic and every other strategy in our country. When it comes to duty, I'm not going to be exposed, I'll just say it for a second. The fact indicator of duty is understanding as analytical and parallel indicators within the country with a certain, is the elements we want to do so. As the information shows, we can easily say that we are not in charge of the country by all criteria, I don't know, GDP, comparisons with public revenues, with exports, etc. However, what the distinguished representative Ivanic was saying, we are in a delicate situation, we have gone one wrong way when it comes to the responsibility and purpose of the sector in which the funds are placed. To be in charge of one brand of public spending is a great sin. To invest in a real sector that will bring jobs, no matter how much it is compared to GDP, should be a practical strategy. Compares, I think Japan is almost 200% of GDP in charge, that Italy, I don't know, over 120%, here's what I mean by memory is saying, I didn't take the exact data, but that's just what we have to take care of, and that's how we show up. Why did this increase occur? In the meantime, we hired, or an optional London debt was activated, so he, if he came to pay us, raised this duty. But we've made an arrangement with the IMF, and that's what I think we have to deal with more, where we said we're going to implement some structural reforms to reduce public spending right now. And that's why we got one short-term loan from the IMF that we've already placed one-third in this previous period, and unfortunately we haven't implemented the reforms. We've done two evils, we haven't implemented reforms, and we're in charge. If we were to go to the end, it would be a huge debt now worth about 350 or 70 million marks a year, which in two years would be nearly a billion. I don't think that's supposed to happen, although I point out another problem that entities are going to do what they planned with the IMF in this year in gymnastics, so they're looking for other solutions to the task, because there's no debt, and they're creating the same debt. No matter how they show it or explain it to us that it's not long, it's a debt, and it's certainly going to have a negative impact on our indicators. 40 What I'm saying is that when it comes to the real sector or where it should be invested, especially our infrastructure, I've had one small inconvenience today, so I'm going to share it with all of you, and taught by the debate, who was at this second home, the House of Representatives. Namely, my colleague Merdžo has asked and touched this question, we are paying heavy interest for unrealised funds, part of it is regular and part of it is criminal because we have not realised it by dynamics. My first contract as federal minister eight years ago was a Sarajevo bypass and has not yet been realised. It's a tight interest payment, we pay at Corridor Vc, it's called a bypass, so it's not Corridor Vc, we just paid in a year and a half, so we paid 4 million stamps of tight interest. We were scheduled to go to Luxembourg on Tuesday... to sign a new agreement. I stopped him for one simple reason because we don't hire already existing means of engagement, we pay tight interest, and we're not ready to implement them, we make an additional effort to do so. And the other problem that arises is the sectoral problem. Niko one sees it, here I have taken this time to look at the sectors where we can be in debt. So those who come from traffic, they'd be in debt; those who come from health care, they'd want to spend that quota, so on schedule. I think we just have to do it this way in order to make one task strategy. And I'd like to ask, since it's a respected home and people from the entity are coming, we've been having practice lately and we've been showing up to be in charge of entities without the consent of the state, which is against the law. Here, I just wanted to share with you the short information. Thank you, cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u654	I thank Mr. Vrankić. Given that there are no other applications for participation in the debate, we are moving to a statement on the Information, i.e. to the vote. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates voted (from Federation 10, RS four). There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12.2010 was accepted. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH Institutions You've been given the Constitutional Commission's opinion. The Commission adopted the Report, proposing to the House the adoption of the Report with the following conclusion, I quote: 'The Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of organising an expert discussion at the latest within two months to analyse the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions and to improve the situation in this area.' Closed quote. 41 The House of Representatives adopted a report with a conclusion. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Simić, if he wishes. He doesn't want to, or he's not there. I give the word to the motionary, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. A registered esteemed colleague, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u656	Thank you very much. Here, on the agenda we have a report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the making of regulations in the institutions, meaning both the authorities at BiH level and lower. I think that this point is no less, too, to say, important than these previous ones that we've been having a big debate about, and in that sense, and by analysing what this report actually says, I would at this point in some way commend the resolute ministry that is keeping track of how these unique rules are applied, because it's kind of comprehensive here, which is what it is, which is all missing when we pass the law, that is, the legislation that we adopt in our homes. We know that the Single Rules apply for reasons to make the rules that would be of quality to us, which would be clear, accessible, easier to apply, which would not open up the possibility of abuses, or make it difficult to apply the law, even by applying the law to unequal case-law, open up the possibility of authentic interpretations for one institution that we have, I am free to say here, can say more abuse, so that in this sense I want to and support all these conclusions relating to these shortcomings in making, but would also suggest to all of us that we also have a responsibility, because we are making decisions on such matters, pleading on our commissions and what we can already influence at this point, means, regardless of waiting, on time, on this public or professional debate that we have proposed through the Constitutional Commission, which should be held at the request of two months, even at this time. So at this point, I'm just going to point out, without what's relevant to information technology, to professional human resources, to the security of resources, the conditions and everything that goes to bring in a quality regulation, I think we need to fix what's possible right now. We get laws in our materials that have stereotype arguments, which somewhere in certain provisions don't even manage to change or change; if someone reads it carefully, they'll see such failures. We also have what it takes to contain that law, and we know that every law when it is passed must include the opinion of the Ministry of Finance from the aspect of financial security, so most often that provision is either not necessary or at this point we do not know. We don't even know in a year, let alone the law that's been passed for a certain time. So in this context, here I am supporting, and I am asking all respected colleagues and colleagues that, when we adopt these regulations, we are already following these regulations and that we fix these regulations so that we can be simple, clear, precise and not leave any doubt tomorrow in their application. Thank you very much. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u657	Thank you too, Mrs. Krišto. Yeah, here's a regulation that the Communications Regulatory Agency keeps warning us about. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u658	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, ladies and gentlemen, just a few words very briefly, because I believe that every codification and every regulation that is clear enough warns in a certain way what may be the consequence after its application. I want to give absolute support to this report. And if we see that in 2005, the Single Rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions were adopted, then it is quite clear that, in these six years since it was applied, we have seen whether we have made a certain step in this matter and whether it is better than it was before. In any case, I always advocate certain rules, certain norms and what will minimise any additional interpretations of any regulation. And that's why I think that this information in one comprehensive way has touched everything that's important in this regulation, from nomotechnics, from the very reasons of all these regulations and I think it gives a real picture of how it goes on. We are on the Constitutional Commission today, as Mrs. Krišto said, just talking about this subject and we have given support to this particular species, I would rather say round table than public debate, because this is about matter within the realm of artis matter, meaning narrowly professional, and thus with the help of all those who have helped us regulate these areas to make a step further in these rules in making these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u659	I thank my esteemed colleague Dragutin Rodić. There are no other applicants involved in the debate, so I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the elements of this agenda point by voting first on the report. The report, unlike these earlier ones, is being adopted or not adopted. We're going to vote. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present in the hall, 13 delegates voted 'yes' (from Federation 10, from RS three). There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the report on the application of the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions has been adopted. We are now going to vote on the Commission's conclusion. I don't think there's any need to repeat it. Right? Thank you. Please initiate the voting process. 13 delegates voted "yes" (from Federation 10, from RS three). There's a general and entity majority, so I'm saying, the conclusion has been adopted. 43 We move to point 10. Ad. Ten. 2010 Agriculture Report for Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received the opinion of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The Commission has taken note of the Report and is proposing to the House the adoption of the following conclusions. One, should I read the conclusions or how? It's not necessary, is it? Okay. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Hasan Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u661	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u662	I thank Mr Bećirović. I give the word to the proposing representative. Neither does the proposing's representative wish to participate in the discussion for the time being. Thank you. I am now opening a debate on the proposed material and, of course, the conclusions. Here you go. No Niko's answering. Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point, so let's move on to a plea. The first thing we're going to vote on is the report. I suggest you run this, can you? Oh, great. Thank you. Mr. Bradarić, are we repeating the vote or was it?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u663	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u664	So, out of the 13 delegates present, 12 delegates were "for", one delegate was "sustained." From the Federation: nine delegates 'yes', one delegate'maintained'. Three delegates from the RS were "yes". With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that this report has been adopted, i.e. A report from the BiH agriculture area for 2010. We are now moving on to a statement on the Commission's conclusions. I ask the ad hoc president of this committee: did you arrange a statement individually on the conclusions or as a whole? _________(?) 44 [[no microphone turned on]] In general. Thank you. So all the delegates know we're pleading in full on the conclusions. Here you go. Thank you. Out of the 13 delegates present, 12 delegates voted in favour and one was "sustained". The Federation of 10 delegates voted yes. Two delegates voted "yes" from the RS, and one delegate was "sustained". With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that the Commission's conclusions have been adopted. Moving to the next agenda point, that's point 11. Ad. 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to execute the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the Sejdic-Finci case against Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Serbian People's Club at the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u668	He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Genjac, distinguished delegate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u669	I think, in any case, we should welcome the proposal for this conclusion and that, finally, in the Parliamentary Assembly, this way, we should begin to address this very important issue. However, I think that in the text itself, the proposal for a conclusion lacks one sentence in terms of the composition and number of members of this committee. That is why I propose one addition to Article 2 which, I think, is in line with the proposal's intention. So, in Article 2, to add the first sentence, which would read: 'The temporary commission is composed of one representative of each parliamentary party', because this reflects approximately the intention, and then the text from the House of Representatives would continue, etc., is named from the House of Peoples. 45 So, just to add the first sentence, which reads: 'The temporary commission is composed of one representative of each parliamentary party.' It's a certain number and composition of the Interim Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u670	Thank you very much. I call on President Tadić to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u671	Thank you, Mr. Čović. Dear colleague, ladies and gentlemen, this is practically a replica, but not to limit my time unless I might be convincing enough myself in these three minutes. The political agreement on the table in the Parliamentary Assembly implies exactly what Mr Genjac is talking about. This decision is the result of an extraordinary effort to run the whole story from a dead end. The form of the nomotechnical decision itself can hardly bear the obligation established by one of the parties to participate in this procedure. And you would be asked the question of the formal fulfillment of the decision itself in case a party says – that's your problem, we don't care. Then we'd get this process back to square one. I wish this was part of a conversation at the clubs, not because you don't need to say it publicly, but because some things still need to be resolved slowly, gentlemen. The deal is that all parties be presented, and that's certainly part of the principle we're talking about. And here's what I'm saying on the record here. So, responsible enough on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, on behalf of the SDS, if you will on behalf of the RS, so we are in favour of all parties participating in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly having a representative in this commission. I would ask you to take this kind of statement, attitude, so as an attitude and a statement that is extremely responsible so that I say the elimination character in relation to this decision, if it is not respected. But if we don't create a form of decision that tomorrow may be a problem if someone wants to create a problem, no one will want to, but there's a possibility that a particular individual, perhaps, and a party to this whole process completely different, possibly as a process perhaps personal promotions. Don't forget what happened to the April package. Here, so we've been looking for a form that, by principles, which I here confirm is the right of each party to have one representative, to be so set up as not to have the process braked by someone's will. I ask you, therefore, to respect this kind of statement and attitude as an attitude, if I have to repeat, the club of delegates of the Serbian people, the SDS, as participants of all conversations, and of the RS, which I am entitled to, given everything I know, what I have heard, and in what I have participated, the least I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u672	Thank you, fellow Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u673	I would then suggest we move to a plea if... 46
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u674	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u675	Mr. Genjac, I'm just asking you now in shape, it's hard to say replicas, this is conversation, but put the replica, don't correct the wrong quote. I'm sorry, I have to, I have to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u676	I appreciate that, but I think that can also be solved by saying that each parliamentary party has the right to propose one representative at a time in the Interim Commission. If one of the parties does not propose its representative, it will be considered, within a period of 15 days, that it has given up, and the appointed representatives will be deemed to constitute a complete commission. I mean, it can be that way, and we can take it from now on.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u677	It's better to imply, believe me, that the process starts from a dead end.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u678	All right, I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u679	Okay. The next thing we need, if we are done with this kind of discussion, is to approach what is expected, I would say the least, and that is that the political parties, who have their representatives in the House of Peoples and want their representatives to be of the order of delegates from the House of Peoples, have announced the candidates' names for this position so that after that they can adopt the conclusion with its elemental part, which is the part that contains the names of elected delegates from the House of Peoples. Mr. Dragan Čović. Dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u680	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, means in the spirit of what we have now in some way agreed, agreed, I suggest on behalf of HDZ... that we fill in from the House of Peoples, exactly, and do so today through Mrs. Borjana Krišto person.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u681	I thank Mr. Čović. My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u682	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, I am also taking this opportunity to, on behalf of the SNSD and based on all our talks at the Serbian People's Club, when this was on the agenda, propose Mr. Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u683	Thank you, Mr. Košarac. Dear colleague Mladan Ivanić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u684	Well, let me just say that within 15 days before PDP, I will deliver, whether I or Mrs. Spremo, one of us will be... – a proposal, so we will agree, I'm not ready to say it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u685	Mr. Ivanic, I'm speaking now, so from this position I'm in, it's not a replica, or anything else. The end of today's work means that the House of Nations has done its job. We cannot, as the House of Nations, choose an MP from the House of Representatives and vice versa. I understand there is a need for consultation. You're still the party president so maybe there's an opportunity to decide at this point, given...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u686	Vesna Spremo and we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u687	Nothing, then we don't choose anyone from the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. A dear colleague, Halid Genjac, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u688	I mean, there's a need to inform the SDA that a member of this committee has agreed. He's from the House of Representatives, and that's why we won't propose here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u689	I thank Mr. Genjac. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u690	We know that from the House of Representatives in front of the SDP, Saša Magazinović will be. It's already agreed so we don't have... 48
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u691	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. A esteemed colleague, Josip Merdžo, came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u692	Here, on the trail of information that other colleagues have provided, as far as HDZ 1990 is concerned, the representative in this commission will be Dr. Božo Ljubić from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u693	I thank the esteemed Mr. Josip Merdžo. Mr. Dragutin Rodić. Here you go. This is now a debate for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u694	So what do we do now, I'm going to propose to this commission of Petar Kunić, DNS.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u695	It will be adopted at the House of Representatives. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, there was a need, you see, this is good news because it means that all the parties want to participate in this, so in some way we've already started, we've gone two steps further even from what was planned today. I thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. So, compared to the text of this conclusion that you have received, it is complemented by being held in Article 2(3) behind the word 'Home of the People' and behind two points by two names, and that: delegate Borjan Krišto on behalf of HDZ and delegate Krstan Simić on behalf of the SNSD. In everything else, the text of this conclusion remains the same and goes into further procedure. I now invite you to move to a statement on this agenda point. Thank you. Out of 14, there were 14 delegates (from Federation 10, all from RS four, all). With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find that the conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to execute the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdic-Finci against BiH has been adopted. We're going to the next item or the agenda. On the agenda of today's session, we still have the agreement to ratify the agreements, conventions, memos and cancelling the Convention on the Protection of Motherhood of the International Labour Organisation, No. Three from 1919. 49 Ad. 12. - 19. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u698	I don't think there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-09-30-0.u699	I thank Mr Bećirović. I'm opening a debate, so a united debate on all the agreements. Is anyone answering for a word? There were some announcements. Nothing. Okay, thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point, united, agenda. 50 We now move to a vote on giving consent to ratification of agreements, conventions, memos from points 12 to 19, including item 19 and point 17 concerning the cancellation of the Convention on the Protection of Motherhood of the International Labour Organisation, No. Three from 1919. Here you go. The 14 delegates present voted by having all been 'yes' (from Federation 10, from RS four). There is a general and entity majority, so I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreement, the convention, the memorandum and the cancellation of the Convention on the Protection of Motherhood of the International Labour Organisation, No. Three from 1919. We are now moving to a vote on the conclusion proposed by the Commission. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, they were all 'yes' (10 from the Federation, four from the RS). There's a general and entity majority, so I find that this conclusion has been adopted. Thank you today for your true parliamentary work. I hope we continue this way in the future. The seat is closed at 3:30.
