ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u946	Given the scheduled meeting at 1200 hours and since we may seem to be on the verge of a quorum at some point, I'd like to ask you to prepare for the beginning of this session. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the moment, there are 12 delegates present, from the Bosniak people's three, in the order of the Croatian Five, from the order of the Serb four delegates. Mrs. Hasan Bećirović and Mladen Ivanić reported their absence for justified reasons throughout the session, and Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović reported her absence at the beginning and arrival during the session, and all for justified reasons. For the 9th session of the House of Peoples, I suggest the following 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 3. Proposal for a law on the application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading), Law No 01,02-02-5-910 of 25. 01. In 2010, with the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading), No 01,02-02-1-2311 of 13. Ten. 2011; 5. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v Bosnia and Herzegovina (material No 01,02-50-14-105211 of 6. 12. 2011); 6. Information on the Recommendation on HIV, AIDS and the Labour World, No. 200 from 2010, International Labour Organisation, Council of Ministers of BiH, No. 01-50-19-106511 of 12. Ten. 2011; 7. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on impact audit - Management of the cost of employment and accommodation of BiH institutions, material number 014-16-1-120311 of 24. 11. 2011; 2 8. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Anti-doping Control Agency for 2010; 9. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Public Procurement Agency for 2010; 10. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Market Oversight Agency for 2010; 11. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Insurance Agency for 2010; 12. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Statistics Agency for 2010; 13. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial management audit of the 2010 BiH Archives; 14. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the Centre for Informing and Recognition of High Education Documents in BiH for 2010; 15. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate for 2010; 16. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Consumer Protection Institution for 2010; 17. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Accreditation Institute for 2010; 18. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the Institute for Intellectual Property for 2010; 19. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Standardisation Institute for 2010; 20. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the 2010 Competition Council of BiH; 21. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH State Department of Appeals Committee for 2010; 22. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for 2010; 23. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial management audit of the 2010 complaint office; 24. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the review of the financial operations of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2010; 25. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the Court of BiH for 2010; 26. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs for 2010; 27. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Presidency for 2010; 28. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Missing Persons Institute for 2010; 29. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Council of Ministers' General Secretariat for 2010; 30. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Veterinary Office for 2010; 31. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Ministry of Justice for 2010; 3 32 Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2010; 33. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Ministry of Security for 2010; 34. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in BiH for 2010; 35. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Border Police for 2010; 36. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the review of the financial operations of the BiH concession Commission for 2010; 37. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH State Service Agency for 2010; 38. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Police Support Agency for 2010; 39. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial management audit of the BiH Foreign Affairs Service for 2010; 40. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency for 2010; 41. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH (IDDEEA) for 2010; 42. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Postal Traffic Agency for 2010; 43. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the review of the financial operations of the Commission for the preservation of the national monuments of BiH for 2010; 44. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2010; 45. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial management audit of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury for 2010; 46. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the Central Election Commission for 2010; 47. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security for 2010; 48. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the 2010 BiH Constitutional Court's financial audit; 49. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Skills for 2010; 50. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment 2010; 51. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH for 2010; 52. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH High Education and Quality Insurance Agency for 2010; 53. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH European Integration Directorate for 2010; 54. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Human Rights Institution for 2010; 4 55 Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre for 2010; 56. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Law Department for 2010; 57. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency for 2010; 58. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Food Safety Agency for 2010; 59. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial management audit of the BiH Return Fund for 2010; 60. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Council of Ministers' legislation for 2010; 61. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Education and Professional Training Agency for 2010; 62. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Ministry of Defence for 2010; 63. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2010; 64. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Plant Health Protection Administration for 2010; 65. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for 2010; 66. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial operations audit of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate for 2010; 67. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Mine Removal Centre (BHMAK) for 2010; 68. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the Institute for Metrology for 2010; 69. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate for 2010; 70. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH for 2010; 71. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education Agency for 2010; 72. Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the Ministry of Communications and Transport for 2010; 73. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH institutions' Joint Affairs Office for 2010; 74. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the financial performance audit of the BiH Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources for 2010 This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the People's House. Now I'm opening a discussion on this agenda. I'm asking if anyone has a proposal for a change or a supplement? Here you go. I find that there are no reports, and since there are no amendments and no additions, the agenda has been adopted and it is not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 5 We move to the first point of Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u955	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u956	Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a plea. Thank you. I find that according to this item of the agenda, in the first round, of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were "for" (from the Federation of Nine, from the Serbian Four) so since there is a general and entity majority I find that the Office for the Audit of the BiH institutions on Impact Audit - The management of rental costs for the work and accommodation of BiH institutions has been adopted. We are now moving to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the Finance and Budget Commission. Here you go. Thank you. I find that according to the conclusions, of the 13 delegates present, there were 12 delegates, and one of them was "sustained." From the Federation eight 'for', one'maintained'; from the Serbian four 'for'. As there is a general and entity majority, I find that the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. 10 Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on the audit reports of the BiH institutions' audit and financial operations for 2010 from point 8 to point 74, including point 74. This is consistent with our practice so far. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports. Thank you. We move on to a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. Thank you. Of the 13 delegates present, 13 delegates were 'yes' (from Federation nine, from Serbian Four). There is a general and entity majority, so I realize this proposal has been adopted. Now we move to points 8 to 74, including point 74. The BiH institutions' audit office submitted a report to the People's House on the financial business audit of the BiH institutions for 2010. Opinions on the revision have been set for 67 BiH institutions, of which 17 have received a positive opinion, 33 positive opinion with a distraction and 17 opinions with a reserve. The Committee for Finance and Budgets of the People's House unanimously adopted 67 reports on the revision of BiH institutions made up of the BiH Audit Office, and proposed that they adopt them to the House of Peoples. The Commission proposes to the House of People to draw the following conclusions: ‘Find 1. The People's House adopts individual conclusions of the Commission on finance and the budget of the People's House on the revised audit reports for 2010. Annex 1 to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended accordingly, The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The people's home adopts a conclusion that commends institutions that have received a positive opinion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The People's House adopts the summary conclusions of the Commission on finance and the budget of the People's House on the revised audit reports of the institutions for 2010 which have been assessed by the reserve opinion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The people's home Annex 4' I give my word to the President-in-Office of the Commission, Dr. Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u957	Dear fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here at the shortest I will try to sum up what is already the chairman, counterpart Tadić, said. The commission, although only three members of the Committee are here, has brought a unanimous one-stop shop, and related to Annex 4, above all. 11 1. So, the Commission has reached the conclusions of reducing the budget by 10% for the following items, I shorten that conclusion: Ministry of Communications and Transport, Civil Aviation Directorate, State Investigation and Protection Agency, Office for Law, Administration for Immaculate Taxation on the items 'fuels, oil, procurement of new vehicles' and the Office for the Protection of Health of Plants of BiH; 2. The reduction of the budget by 20% in the following paragraphs: the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Institute of Measurement and the Office for the Protection of Health of Plants of BiH, according to certain items as it says in the Report that you received in the materials. Since the House of Representatives adopted these materials at its previous session and, unlike our proposal, our Commission for Finance and Budget, two items exempt from reducing the budget by 10%, this conclusion is 1st, and this applies primarily to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, meaning the costs of representation, i.e. ‘fuel and oil costs’, and the Directorate for indirect taxation on the items ‘fuel and oil costs’, i.e. ‘car purchase’, for the specificity of these two institutions, means the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, i.e. the Directorate for Direct Taxation, that was the basic logic of why the House of Representatives freed, let's say conditionally, these two institutions of reducing the budget of 10%, while respecting the specificity of their work. My opinion, and I haven't consulted with all the members of the Committee, so it would be reasonable to conclude today all the reports that we, in the same form as the House of Representatives, have accepted these reductions, means this conclusion of the Committee of the House of Finance and the budget to align with what the House of Representatives did. Thus, in the point of the 1st reduction for the 10% budget to exempt the agencies, i.e. the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, when it comes to the cost of oil and fuel, i.e. the cost of fuel and oil, i.e. the Directorate for indirect taxation when it comes to the same costs. Here's my proposal, and I'd like to ask my fellow MPs to respect this, as well as my colleagues from the Budget Committee, or finance, to accept this, too, because so far, we've adopted everything unanimously on the Committee so that we don't violate this relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u958	Okay. This was practically a proposal that Mr. Čović presented as a delegate, assuming, of course, that we had agreed earlier on all this. I'm just saying this for the Rules of Procedure. Okay. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u959	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, good afternoon, everyone. I am a member of this Finance Commission and, of course, I agree with all that has been made in these conclusions and I support these changes in conclusions. However, I will say something, I have done some sort of review of the opinions expressed for the period 2006. - 2010 and the general impression 12 that a number of institutions in BiH have been strengthening public responsibility when it comes to spending public funds, financial resources, because it is, in fact, the subject of an audit. Unfortunately, so far these effects of institutions have not been measured, but in a number, and not so small, behavior has not improved or changed at all. The worst part is that according to the BiH institutions responsible, no procedure of responsibility has been launched to correct errors, failures and irregularities and, I say, to make this financial part a little fairer and different in order to strengthen this financial discipline. The audit office did report to the authorities on the implementation of the law on irregularities but, unfortunately, that was the end of it. I'm saying, I've done a review for myself, an analytical review of the opinions expressed, and I've written myself this way that from what is characteristic of this number of institutions, as many as there are here and on the agenda, 20 or 21 institutions in the last five years have not received any positive opinions. So five years of institution, here's a short list, they get opinions that aren't positive. So, they get opinions with the reserve, they're bad opinions. They get an opinion with a reserve with an emphasis on the subject or perhaps positive opinions with an emphasis on the subject. These are the Food Safety Agency and the Civil Aviation Directorate, the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, the Institute of Measurement, the Competition Council, all ministries except the Ministry of Justice. The Presidency, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Foreign Affairs Service, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Veterinary Office and the Office for the Health Protection of Plants and the Mine Removal Centre, which received one positive opinion in 2008 though. This is terrible, I mean, this is a disaster. So people, responsible people for five years get opinions that aren't positive, and today they're headed by these institutions. The question of responsibility is the key question. Irregularities in public procurement? Almost every institution has that problem. This isn't about small funds. There are big remarks because... agreements are signed with only one charger, there are no more, with non-solvent bidders, with non-tax providers, health contributions, pensions, etc. And of course you have to doubt that, and of course, everyone is, unfortunately, talking about that corruption today, and religious officials, that is... when the holidays are about it, and there's no one right to say that we are angels, that we are clean, etc. And unfortunately, it's not a mobile responsibility for these people. They pay people for their schooling! That's where you'll find the director of the Return Fund, pay for his education, his master's degree, his doctorate, and I don't know what he is. And when you ask him at our hearing if it's true, the man says he didn't deny it, but he says that's what others do. Niko one can challenge people to school, but pay their brothers out of their pocket, don't spend public money. They are illegal in implementing acts that regulate particularly sensitive costs such as representation, labour contract, fuel consumption, vehicle maintenance, stimulation, etc. Both here and most of the first people in the ministries and departments use vehicles for 24 hours, and when they're not for official purposes. Or, say, on vacations, it's not okay for someone to use a vehicle, fuel, drivers, etc. during vacations. It should be seen by ministers of Sweden, people travelling by public transport. It's inconceivable that he's using a vehicle to go on vacation. The rule on the use of mobile phones is not in line with the needs of the workplace, so you have a situation where one driver, and people generally don't complain a little bit but unfairly, one driver at the Ministry of Defence has 20 marks, and the driver at the Plant Health Authority has 120 marks. And normally, by that inert, they'll have a higher coefficient when it comes to the pay grade, and we've seen for the last time on this committee. There are unlimited limits, there are no restrictions, and it's not even 13 okay. It's impossible for someone to spend 1,000, 1/100, 1,200 marks on a mobile phone, I don't know where they're spending it, but you have a situation where the foreign minister's advisor gets 7,000 already, has a limit almost unlimited. And still got a man 7,000 marks, filed a request and gave him 7,000 marks on the use of the phone. Otherwise, the foreign ministry spent 1.550,000 fuel last year on these purposes. The costs of the team. There are internal and external costs and there's no cost specifications, there's no real reason to do it, what's being spent. And let's say, here's the Department of Defense spent as much as 62% of the planned funds. So it was planned for 514, and people spent 834 marks, so it's not about small funds, etc. And this year, like earlier years, I spoke last time, the Foreign Ministry made a purchase of gifts in value, again in the same jewelery, 36,650 marks without public procurement, so come directly to the gig there, give it to us, so without the contract previously signed, etc. I don't even know who they're buying that gold for, and what gold, when we know these officials are coming to us, so they bring us ties, I don't know, they bring wine, etc., gold, I don't know, we're not Turkey or Syria, so let's do it. Stimulations, for example, were paid even at 100% the last time and last year, so no man came, as our people would say, didn't come to you, and after those great criticisms, etc. So it pays even the stimulation at 100%. Or already, here are four years of people receiving 20% salary, four employees, again at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for work at the Commission for the implementation of the SFRY Succession Agreement, etc. Or, for example, the deputy minister gets 9,313 marks to work in NATO's co-ordination body again. Again, the deputy foreign minister, although under the law directors, ministers, deputy ministers cannot receive these incentives, etc. So, if I don't talk about an act contract, it's where people are signed or engaged, people pay for what's in the systematization of jobs, so it's totally unfair. Or it's a special story, what we just had, managing the costs of renting for the work and accommodation of BiH institutions. I'm sorry, I was going to talk about this, but I thought someone else would be within this previous point. But there's a serious matter. There's a lot of money being spent there. I think that last year was spent 28, and they say that in this year 32 million for accommodation, so people take both the center and the middle and the fairies, not the predators, but the fairies, so they're not, they're greedy, so that's what they're thinking. Or, say, in the same building, two institutions in the same building pay different prices, etc. So, what do I mean? There is a need to systematically regulate the function of managing institution accommodation, but it is also necessary to have uniform rules and procedures in BiH institutions when it comes to sensitive costs. We have this in the proposal to someone, but I don't think it should be accepted because the directors decide again, the ministers decide again, etc. That should be done by the Department of Joint Affairs in such a gallery and that, uh, the red time is running, right, that the monitoring is done by the Ministry of Finance and the vault. And finally, what we've come to find out, like when we've been hearing these institutions, from some other people between us when we talk, would be interesting to see the property situation of some directors, some ministers, assistant ministers, and they'd be amazed. Therefore, there is no honesty. I'm not for these militant decisions in terms of arrests, because then you can make a mistake, but, certainly, all of these conclusions that we've proposed here now, I'm also for that, but here I'm not asking you to plead, someone else in the future is going to do it for people to get rid of. So, for some five years, and even six years, he's doing a negative job, and he's still going on, so people like that need to be resolved, 14 to get out of the place no matter what political party they belong to. I will behave like this until the end of my term. That's it. I apologize for the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u960	All right, colleague Bradarić, you know that we're tolerant of each other, so that's never a problem, of course within the limits that you respect. The following came to the word from distinguished counterpart Krstan Simić. Here you go, Mr. Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the good part of the discussion I wanted to talk about was taken by Mr. Bradarić, so I will in a certain way just relate to his presentation. Those who are older remember about one politician named Mitija Ribičić and was president of the Federal Executive Council. And when he was leaving, there was this big interview of his when they asked him if he was happy with what he did. He's about to say no. When you come to an institution, you feel like you've only hit one, two times because there's one stale bureaucracy where the ministers come in, where the leaders come in, and it doesn't keep changing, and yet under the prism and form of independence of state officials so that no one gets involved. Because if you have the information that 17-24% of BiH institutions have a negative report, it simply associated me with this statement by Mr. Ribičić. They can't be just responsible people who were at the head of these institutions. There was created a skeletal system that simply does not allow changes, does not allow changes and cannot understand that the time has come for public funds to be controlled in a very responsible way. I support the Commission's report and I must even commend it, because in a very convenient way it summed up, counted the reports, so it was easier for us to follow them. These reports are all available to the public and in this direction I would like to make a suggestion, whether in the form of a conclusion, whether or not it is heard by representatives of the Council of Ministers. Perhaps it is time for the draft law on fiscal discipline, accountability to appear in this House. This law has many developed countries, and it is he who contributes in a different way to establish and discipline, so even somewhere, the criminal responsibility of those who keep repeating it year after year, in the same way repeat their failures, mistakes, not to say, knowingly destroy or steal the property of taxpayers. Simply, if we don't have the mechanisms of responsibility, whether through the shifts responsible for it, because they didn't stop it, unless we have such a regulation that explicitly regulates it, of course people do it year after year. Why would he change his habits, why would he change his way of spending his team, why would he change his appearance of a good host by buying gold that he doesn't give to anyone, which even looks a bit like a spine when you give it to someone today? He's acting the same way because we're acting the same way. We didn't say stop, we can't do this anymore, we'll deal with it, either by changing these people, by calling for responsibility, or by making regulations that will in one clear way. This issue can be resolved by possibly supplementing criminal laws that will regulate the issue. Many will say that it is regulated through certain forms of abuse. But if you define exactly as the criminal act against a fiscal system, be sure to strengthen your responsibility in this way. I therefore believe that this question should be considered and that we should have such a law very quickly. I must remind you, and as you may be following, that in Croatia and Slovenia, it is already at a further 15 stages of the adoption of such regulations. It is a very, very significant degree of strengthening the responsibility of those who abuse their position in this way and spend money on taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u962	Thank you, dear fellow Simić. The following came to the word, dear colleague Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u963	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues, I would like to say today a few words for the simple reason that this many reports should not go unnoticed at the House of Nations, because these reports were preceded by a comprehensive work of the Finance and Budget Commission: four sessions and four meetings of the Commission were held to hear all these institutions and to hear a lot of what, here, if we opened a debate today on each individual report, we could hear a lot of things and what would start to intimidate our public. However, the Commission's report has united all of this in one way, and I think that the conclusions are exactly going in the direction of what we need to do in the future, given that this House of People is in office from 9 June 2010, and I think full capacity in all of this we do and the foundations we are establishing can contribute in some years to come. If we know that the main objective of the public sector audit is to increase economics, efficiency, efficiency, legality, budget management and other public resources, then it is clear what is the key problem in all these audit reports. This is exactly what is repeated from year to year and what, in the last five years, somewhere since 2006 and until today, we have institutions constantly breaking the following: internal control not established in all these institutions and the total construction of that system, missing internal rules and inadequate application of the internal rules adopted, regulations and legality, weaknesses in budget planning, poor budget implementation control, weaknesses in filling the organisational structure, weaknesses in carrying out the list of assets, assets, sources of funds and liabilities, weaknesses in the application of the Public Procurement Act, errors in accounts and books and weaknesses when drawing up financial reports. If you look at it then you see that it touches every segment of business all and one of these institutions. And of course, that's what when we've been listening to certain institutions and when you ask why this is happening and why it's always typical mistakes and if those recommendations that the main audit service gave are not realized, then the most common answers are that there are not enough personnel, that the fit is not dressed and that education of people who can do the job should be done differently. It is absolutely incredible that there has been no positive report in certain institutions, and I have had the opportunity to hear the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees from 2006 to today, and there have also been certain agencies that have been established, but when planning and setting the foundations needed for the work of an institution, we see that, to this day, neither the staff concerned nor the accommodation issues have been resolved, nor the budget has been planned in the manner provided for by law. I also want to say here that there have been some frantic explanations from some people who have been heard, so the Foreign Ministry man said, "If I respect what 16 requests from me, then I get ears from the minister; if I don't respect it, I get from the main audit service." It was something to me that was really ugly to hear. I think we should do what the law says and act the way the proper rules and everything we have. I fully support this report, which we adopted unanimously on the Finance and Budget Commission. However, in general, here is what my colleague Bradarić was saying, and this was also the subject of the previous report, it is one of the reports that perhaps the main audit service often does not work, and this is a report on the impact review where the work of certain institutions could be fully considered and above all the business and spatial accommodation capacities of these institutions. If you know and have only one piece of information and if we say there are many new institutions and there are certain needs, but you have no visions or strategy on how to do it, and today there are unique rules on how to behave, then of course the enormous money spent on these purposes is what is both under the public's glass and under the bat of all those who do this work. Here I had a need for importance and theme and it didn't pass today that we weren't talking about these reports, but I think a huge job has been done and these conclusions reflect everything that's in the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u964	I understand, my colleague Rodić, I would have answered it, but there is no one to run the session. The next word came from a distinguished colleague, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u965	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, of course, I'd like to say hello. I was thinking whether to report for one simple reason why Mr Simić said several important findings about what we will have in the future and what we will be meeting with. We'll be in a situation very soon to discuss the 2011 reports. And I'm afraid we're about to show some excessive concern again and nothing more. First of all, this is citizens' money. The revision does its part, people are exposed to different kinds of pressures, issue their opinions, their recommendations, and about the analyses of what we have talked about and what we have been preparing for this session we see that a small number of institutions and agencies implement the recommendations issued. And then the question can be asked, first of all, what is the function of the audit, do we need this kind of review if management and agency directors don't make recommendations or our laws aren't exactly the best? We have a situation where such anomalies are expressed in these audit reports year by year repeated. And a fundamental question arises: then what does the BiH Parliament do in this context? Does the BiH Parliament come up with some solutions so that this kind of failure and spending on BiH's budget will stop and come to a situation where recommendations that the BiH main audit service determines fully and respects? It is inadmissible that five years of the repositories or the agency shall carry out a certain type of audit of institutions and that none of them have done anything to implement the recommendations issued. So what's the point of all this? By the end of this term, are we going to worry year after year that money is not spent in the best possible way without doing anything? I think the House of People can run a series of initiatives when it comes to laws and I think it should be one of the conclusions. I don’t think there is any obvious willingness, that there was no 17 willingness to open these questions in a more courageous way. And I think that the mechanisms of responsibility and analysis of the current ones, let me say, the effects of these audits, first of all, should be made by our Finance and Budget Commission and we should see how we can access the amendments and amendments to the law. Whether it's fiscal stability or not, I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u966	Responsibility?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u967	Responsibility, or through amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. To make the absurdity even bigger, we do not know whether and what the BiH Prosecutor's Office has done, if the procedure has been initiated for some who have violated the law. And we're coming up with a very, very complex question, and I'm afraid that we're going to be going round and round and round and round and running analysis of these reports. The Commission's efforts for finance and the budget of the People's House should be commended, which has certainly prepared a good report, comprehensively, with concrete proposals, with the view that I believe that the House of Nations should conclude, that the conclusion and the Commission itself for finance and the budget to carry out an analysis of the law in this area so that, based on this analysis, we can start to amend and supplement certain legislation that would be introduced primarily by this, as Mr Simić said, and fiscal responsibility and, of course, in order to fully and in the future try to resolve these issues in a legal manner and best possible way, so as not to repeat such anomalies in this system as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u968	Then can I take this as a formal proposal for a conclusion? Here I am then noting that it reads this way: 'It is the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People's Parliament Assembly of BiH's House of Parliament's budget to carry out an analysis of the law in the field of budgetary operations and to provide suggestions and suggestions on them, which would improve the situation, and given the current report from the audit sector.' Is that a text?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u969	We'll take five minutes off, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u970	Okay. I would then ask you to use the exhibition, of course, which I recommend and to hear from the distinguished colleague Krunoslav Vrdoljak, so as to prepare in writing at least a draft of your conclusion. Mr. Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u971	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to turn the turkey upside down a little bit, and I have to admit that part of that upside-down turkey has been reached by Mr. Košarac. Namely, the Office for Auditing us both seriously for 2009 and 2010 in a nice way, therefore not in a rough way, warns what 18 is about our task, and in order to overcome these problems, when it comes to the business of these public institutions, and even... in the last session we discussed their little clumsy name, at least in my opinion, the report on the implementation of the Budget of institutions. But in each individual report for each institution, about eight points, as far as I've taken out, many of these reports also warn the Assembly and some competent ministries, or the Council of Ministers and some other competent institutions, which is their job not to make mistakes like this. Let me just, this would be good to enter into this proposal of conclusions proposed by Mr. Košarac, and not to invent hot water, in this review report the report has a precise number, not in a rough, therefore in a fine way by the Office of Auditing what should be done. First, it was heard that the introduction of internal financial controls, i.e. finally doing an impact review, because without an impact review, this is all about Sisif's job. Because we did, for the first time we have this business space thing, so we have such data that it's for the trap from the legs how good it is. You can imagine what would happen if we had an impact review for all these institutions. Here, only in this matter of business space, there is a possibility of savings on the findings of the Audit Office between 1 and 2 million marks. Furthermore, they say amending the Public Procurement Act. In all the audits where it is not a positive opinion is highlighted in almost everything, I don't know if there is one, a problem with public procurement where they say finely that the law needs to be amended or better to bring a completely new one, because this one is not good at public procurement and should be in charge of the Public Procurement Agency, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly to do so. The third thing, they say, is to adopt sublegal acts on regulation of purpose spending: use of vehicles, telephones, representations, travel expenses, accommodation, separate lives, etc. These proposals already exist and are on the Council of Ministers, but there is obviously no good will to do something about it. The fourth thing, again, they say, there are no established standards of consumption for institutions, thoughts of the class of vehicles when bought, of the hotel category, on a journey of which class, whether business or not. Fifth, transparency in the employment process. More or less everywhere, that's the problem. The Agency for the State Service, the administrative inspection, which should put it in order, but obviously not, unless there are some initiatives by the Parliamentary Assembly. The sixth, accounting policies, all these institutions operate in a unique vault business, and this is not arranged. And then it's a big problem, and what I've read needs to be solved, it needs to be determined, so this accounting policy. The law on salaries and fees for BiH institutions, i.e. for the level of executive authority, legislative and judicial authorities: separately, they propose this. And I agree we should, and we don't have that. Finally, it systematically resolves the issue of availability of movable and immovable state property, a problem that is likely to take a little longer to solve the problem. So, I don't think that we can speculate on these problems either, and that we should finally start and in terms of this, so I would suggest that we supplement this conclusion proposed by Mr. Košarac, that we practically take these eight points from this audit report of the Audit Office and that it be our conclusion that we ask that these institutions all work towards solving these problems, which is why, I suppose, the future audit reports will be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u972	I thank Mr. Vrdoljak. My dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, come in. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u973	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow envoys, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, respected media, I welcome you all. I, at this point of the agenda, also have no intention of repeating exactly what the esteemed colleagues have already said and actually just give part of that debate in some way, because it has also started in terms of diagnosing these problems in terms of the correct proposal of measures to come up with a positive report from institutions, whose work it is doing, to say, audit institutions, or audit houses. I have no intention of commenting on their report, because I really don't think any of us in the context of these discussions, no matter how or how he looked back, I don't know from my colleague Bradarić, he didn't intend to say that the audit did it one way or another, because we think that there are competent people who do their job under the powers vested in the law. But actually what I want to stress here is that everything that is and from the Office of Audit is indicated and through the report of the Commission in which way it has been diagnosed leads us to one conclusion that we are really asking ourselves what it is actually Prlament in terms of the proposal measures, and the proposal for a measure refers to what, here is what my colleague Košarac said, and this is our legislation, these are our laws. In fact, these problems that we are facing and these reports of revisions arise for a simple reason because often in reports that are listed here, and negative and with the reserve, the question of whether it applies is, I say, a general regulation or a regulation of the lex specialis of a particular portfolio, etc., whenever the Ministry of Defence is involved, whenever it comes to the Ministry of Finance. Because here we need to go from a fundamental principle, which is that every ministry, so the Office of Audit has no right and it is not an interpreter of the law. So, the competent institution that is audited is the one that speaks, for example, about the responsibility of the ministry and in terms of interpreting those provisions, that law. So in this sense, I want to say that all the problems that arise are from our indeterminateness, our ambiguity. So here I will just remind myself of one provision even the Law on the Audit of Institutions, which says in Article 16(4), where our committee has also proposed, and it says: 'Parliament can, based on the findings and recommendations of the annual audit report or annual budget implementation report, reduce the budget of one or more budgetary institutions and take other appropriate corrective actions'. I don't know, really, did Parliament, one home or another, take that and any other corrective action? Here are the proposals, I don't know, budget constraints about 10%, 20%, etc. What other corrective actions are these? So we have unsettled laws, we have laws that are unclear, that can't be implemented until the end, not just the Law on the revision of the institution's budget, but also the meaning of everything else. We know we talk a lot, here we are today, saying we didn't support one such law, just to that end. But we have a lot that are not clear at this point, they're not defined, they're determined, and such a norm certainly doesn't guarantee what's called financial, let me say, stability and what's required of the Audit Office, which is transparency, I don't know, efficiency and all the other principles that require, to say, financial discipline. In the context of this, I would like to support the proposals submitted, with these proposals relating only to this financial part including another legislation on the proposal of 20 other users of the budget, because as far as I know, I have talked to the managers of certain institutions and they say: we have already made some kind of misunderstandings with the Audit Office, but we have to approach the amendments, I don't know, any regulations, any laws that are concrete and numbered here. So in this sense, I would like to say that I will support this proposal by Staša Košarac, with the financial changes to the financial area law, we should also extend to those concerned and other users, which relate to financial activity. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-28-0.u974	I thank the esteemed Mrs. Krišto, and I'm giving a 10-minute break for the alignment. I've heard more initiatives from more delegates, so maybe you can make some circle to make it a common conclusion, not to create some illogicality. [[PAUZA]] I think we're all in the hall. We've got a quorum. I find that in the meantime, the work of the session has been abandoned for justifiable reasons by distinguished colleagues Dragan Čović and Sulejman Tihić, given that we have concluded the debate. Right? Yes, it is. Before we move to a statement on each individual element of this agenda point, I will read to you this proposal of the conclusion sent to us by our esteemed colleague, Staša Košarac, as I understand it, in consultation with other delegates who discussed this topic. It reads: "The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges the Council of Ministers to carry out, as soon as possible, an analysis of the structure and type of observations by the BiH Office for the Audit of Institutions and to draw up a plan and programme of measures to deliver to this home, which will remove legal and sublegal barriers in effective control, thereby avoiding any negative consequences for the transparent and legal spending of BiH institutions' financial resources." Signed, Staša Košarac. That's it, good. If there is no further need to discuss this subject, I would conclude a definitely debate and now we should move on to a statement. First of all, we express ourselves on the adoption of 67 reports from the BiH institutions' audit office on financial business audits for 2010, from point 8 to point 74, including item 74 of the proposed agenda. Thank you. I find that in the first round, of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates were "for" (from Federation seven, from Serbian Four). Well, since there's both a general and an entity majority, I realize the reports have been passed. We are now moving on to a statement on the proposals of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, by correcting the proposals made by these conclusions in line with the proposal of distinguished counterpart Dragan Čović, the chairman of this commission, in Annex 4, in which the amendment concerns the abandonment of the BiH Direct Taxation Board from point 1 of this annex. As for the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, the restriction remains related to the item'representation costs', while the item 'car, fuel and oil purchase costs' is excluded from this annex. 21 All right, we're moving on to a plea. Thank you. In the first round, of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates were "for" (from Federation Seven, from Serbian Four). As there is both a general and an entity majority, I find that the Commission's conclusions on finance and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We are now moving on to a statement on this conclusion, a proposal from Staša Košarac delegates, who you have just heard. Thank you. In the first round, of the 11 delegates present, 11 delegates voted 'yes' (from the Federation seven and from the Serbian four). With the existence of a general and entity majority, I also find that this proposal has been adopted. This, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, has exhausted the agenda of today's session, so I would just like to finally, on behalf of the BiH House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, to give you my congratulations on the coming 2012 and hope that you will achieve both family and personal happiness, satisfaction and success, as well as on this political plan, for which we have been paid from the BiH budget. I hope that I will get your support and, as I say, consent when I say and what comes next, which is that I have the impression that the House of Peoples is a parliamentary assembly of BiH, working all of you together in its places and duties, has shown that the most responsible part of this political system is under the Dayton Peace Agreement, because no crisis, no problem, no disagreement, no conflict – has come out of this Chamber. I'd like others to work on our reputations, and every good in 2012, we'll continue, I hope. Cheers! Yes, and be closer if the budget is adopted. The seat is closed at 12.40 hours.
