ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u700	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH and representatives of international organisations, respected media representatives, I welcome you and open the 7th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 delegates present at the session, of which 5 from Bosniak, 4 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. Mr. Krunoslav Vrdoljak is not able to attend this session for justified reasons. For the 7th session of the House of Peoples, I suggest the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 6th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 3. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011. Years - Proposer of the conclusion: College of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Proposal for a law on applying the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis in court proceedings (second reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-5-9/10 of 25.01.2010; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign exchange savings account, (second reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-14/11 of 18.08.2011; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (first reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-118/11 of 08/09/11; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-23/11 of 13.10.2011; 8. Report on activities on the project ‘Autoput on Corridor 5c’ and plan of the following activities, material number: 01,02-29-860/11 since 29.07.2011; 9. Report on realized permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008, material number: 01,02-03-985/10 of 04.08.2010; 10. Report on licences issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009, material number: 01,02-03-985/10 of 04.08.2010; 11. Information on the resolution of surplus weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets of the Armed Forces of BiH, material number: 03/1-03-437-3/10 of 03.08.2010; 2 12. Information on the security situation in BiH in 2010, material No. 01.02-04-485/11 of 03.06.2011; 13. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH on the review of the BiH Ministry of Security report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the field of the protection of classified data in 2010, material number: 01,02-04-628/11 since 27.07.2011; 14. Proposal for a Commission Opinion on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the People's House on the Conclusions of the Public Television System Committee of Bosnia and Herzegovina of 15.11.2011; 15. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the interparliamentary friendship groups of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with the parliamentary bodies of other countries - Proposer: Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 16. Decision on the participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Group in the International Security Assistance Force operation of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, material No: 01,02- 03-1077/11 of 18.10.2011; 17. Appointment of members from the House of People to the Professional Commission of the DTT Forum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-29-928/11 of 07/09/11; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the mutual protection and exchange of classified information; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Establishment and Statute of the European Public Law Organisation (EPLO); 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the State Programme (Part I) for 2010 under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the State of Kuwait on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme - Serbia under the IPA cross-border co-operation component for 2007; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina - Montenegro under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2007; 24. Granting consent to ratification of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the State Programme (II) Part) for 2008 under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 1 to the Funding Agreement (since 27.02.2006) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and KfW, Frankfurt, May, for the establishment of the European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Fund's Finance and Management Agreement, signed on 21.07.2010, which was supplemented by the Fund's Additional Agreement on Financing and Management, signed between Bosnia and Herzegovina and KfW, Frankfurt on May - Credit Guarantee Fund; 27. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro on Veterinary Cooperation; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in Southeast Europe; 3 29. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the fight against corruption through the South East European Anti-Corruption Initiative; 30. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 1 to the Financial Agreement implementing the national programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the IPA programme - transition assistance and institution strengthening component for 2007; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme - Croatia under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2007; 32. Providing consent for ratification of Appendix No. 1 The financing agreement relating to the national programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina - II the part of the IPA support programme for transition and institution building for 2008; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Loan Agreement based on the assistance of the Netherlands between the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands for the financing of Project No: KGS10/BA/3/1; 34. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers B and H and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the temporary employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia with the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on a visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic and official passports; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports; 38. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Iran; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of the Fair Loan Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Erste Bank Der Oesterreichischen Sparkassen AG for the project "Procuring Medical Equipment for General Hospital in Nevesinj"; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Academy of Anti-Corruption Status Agreement; 41. Giving consent to the ratification of the Swedish Trast Fund Grant Agreement (A Water Quality Protection Project: Mostar Water and sewerage) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as administrator of the Swedish Trust Fund; 42. Giving consent to ratification of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission concerning the National Programme (Part II) for 2010 under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance; 43 Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement for the Zenica Main City Highway Project between the Saudi Development Fund and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 44. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amending of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) for the Energy Community Programme for Southeast Europe (ESCEE) (credit No. 4197 - BOS); 45. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the loan, financing and project of 23 June 2008 for 17,000,000 euros between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loaning) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Elektroprivreda of the Croatian Community 4 Herceg-Bosnia d.d. Mostar (EP HZHB) as a project implementation agency (Project Implementation Agency) and Kreditasse fur Wiederufbau (KfW), Frankfurt na Majna - related to the rehabilitation of the Rama Hydropower Plant; 46. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 3 to the Agreement on the financing of 27 February 2006 (European Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (EFBH) - Housing Loans Programme - Small and Medium Enterprises Loan Programme) between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representing the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and KfW, Frankfurt in May; 47. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (A Water and Waste Water Project in Sarajevo) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 48. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons against Forced Peters; 49. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of San Marino on the promotion and mutual protection of investments; 50. Giving consent to the ratification of the amendment to Article 20(1). UN Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women; 51. Giving consent to the ratification of the UNIDROIT Convention on stolen or illegally exported cultural goods; 52. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Member States of the Southeast European Health Network on the arrangements of the host country and the headquarters of the Southeast European Health Network Secretariat. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. I invite you to answer the word if you have any suggestions to amend and supplement this agenda. Here you go. A dear colleague, Mr. Mehmed Bradarić, came forward for the word. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u701	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I have an intervention on the timing of this session. The last 6th session of the House was held in 30.09., and here today begins the third month that we have not met and I believe that we are slowly losing, we are not actually following the activities of the House of Representatives. I'm not saying that we need to discuss topics that are not in line, such as the budget, such as the Law on the ID card, state aid, the census and so on. But there are things we can and need to talk about. Let's say, such as that Information on the implications of Croatia's EU accession process. M and we had a chance to discuss this information on the commission, there's a comatose state, we don't have a lot of time when it comes to it. Or let's say the information about the execution, or the report on the implementation of the budget, where it is there, and obligations, international obligations, where one luxury is shown, etc., or here on the agenda today we have 12 ratifications adopted by the House of Representatives on 27.10. means 30 days ago and a few days ago and so on. So there was a reason for us to meet more often, and I'm sure the story here in the House would come to some useful conclusions. That's why the suggestion though I think we should talk more often, I don't even believe it's okay that succession is the first House of Representatives, so we, again and again, think we can talk and talk about topics that they haven't even talked about yet. That's it. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u702	I thank Mr. Bradarić. Is anyone else answering for word? There are no reports. The Rules of Procedure do not allow me to open a debate on this subject within this item of the agenda, nor provide explanations. As a colleague of your party, I suggest you ask a delegate question at the next point and get a written answer about what you were talking about. Thank you. If there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda, it shall be adopted and not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 6th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Thank you. We're voting on the 6th session minutes. Start the vote. Thank you. The result of the vote is that of the 14 present - for any 14 delegates, against no one, abstentioned anyone. From Federation 9 it was for, from RS 5 it was for. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find the record of the 6th session of the House of Peoples adopted. I have to take a five-minute break at this point, I'm really sorry. And I call on IT sector workers to approach my work surface. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u706	Dear colleagues. I asked the question - What can the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees do to introduce more than a hundred students, Serbian students in Glamoc, teaching in Serbian because they do not have it there? I've got one detailed answer that gives a story about why it's supposed to be, so the Convention on Human Rights, so the UN, all of it alive, but I have no answer why, what it's going to do to make it really happen. Everything the Ministry told me -- parents can sue for discrimination. I, the chairman, want to ask now -- can I ask the question now to the Federal Ministry of Education, to enlighten through you, to answer me, or should I sue on behalf of those people for violating their human rights? And that no one, literally no one wants to do anything, and it all happens in one, one entity that boasts multiethnicity, which boasts that everything is so wide, and one city that was once dominant Serbian might not be so much anymore, but still children can't learn in Serbian. If something like this were going on in Srebrenica, it would be a spectacle, now nobody's doing anything. Well, please read the answer, so parents can sue. I understand the Ministry doesn't have jurisdiction, but it could at least ask for a more concrete answer then that ministry, whether it's cantonal or federal, I don't know. And even if everybody does that, we're not gonna end up anywhere. So, if I have the right to count on it right now and ask a question to the Federal Ministry of Education - what does he think he's going to do to make these kids learn in a language that's natural to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u707	Dear fellow Ivanić, therefore, there is a suggestion on how your question should be answered, but I suggest that this question, so I will take it as a question of the chairman, in writing to you for appropriate procedures that would be completely perfect, so that you would not be able to resist the type whether you have the right or not, or whether you have used the right in an adequate manner. So I ask you to refrain for some days until we have a written answer to this question. Do that, thank you. Next, a distinguished colleague, Staša Košarac, came forward. Mr. Košarac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u708	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. 7 I have asked a delegate question that reads - Why is no procedure for calling a contest for the selection of members of the Management Board of the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH? I must say that I am disappointed, obviously in one notor truth that is present in BiH, that some processes in B and H cannot be implemented for the benefit of all BiH citizens, for the sake of the presence of international organisations. And then the question arises as to what the purpose of any conclusion in the BiH Parliament is when in particular the procedure for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH cannot be implemented since 2010. For almost two years, this process has been in B and H because... it does not give consent to the selection of new members of the Management Board under the structure of the national, defined by law, where there is no problem of this kind, I would say, on the inside of BiH. So what do we do now? What will Parliament B and H do when the Missing Persons Act of BiH is not implemented? What will we do when the Main Audit Service finds out twice in the report that they are not the legitimate organs of the BiH Missing Persons Institute? Here I ask all those present here, what will the BiH Parliament do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u709	Thank you, Mr. Košarac. The next thing you know, an esteemed colleague named Mehmed Bradarić came forward. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u710	I've got a package of answers. I'm not going to comment on them all, I'm going to comment on only one of these, and the question was - Do employees at the Communications Regulatory Agency and the BiH Institutions Audit Office receive a salary supplement prescribed by law? I got a positive answer, so 71 employees receive a salary allowance. He's not so small, even 10 employees receive 50% of the allowance on the basic salary, so not on the basis but on the basic salary. And this answer is not fully defined so that I ask again the Regulatory Agency for Communications - by which act and in fact did it adopt the act by which this payment of this supplement is made? Of course, I'm looking for this in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u711	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. I guess there's no answer at this point, so we're going to forward this question to the Regulatory Agency. Thank you. My dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u712	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers and all guests at this session, I warmly welcome you all with a desire for the successful work of this session. My envoy's question was addressed to the Committee for the Conservation of the National Monuments of BiH under the Decision of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments from 22 to 28 May 2007, the 8th place and remains of the construction unit of the Curcinica mosque in Livno was declared a national monument of BiH. I ask the next envoy question - Why did the Committee for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH not respond to the request of the Municipality of Livno from 11.10.2011 in connection with the review and amendment of the Decision taken by the Committee for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH from 22 to 28 May 2007, which would have reconstructed the national monument in its original form on the basis of photo documentation that existed from the time before damaged, as well as the inventory of the monumental fund regular number 86? Since the Head of the Municipality of Livno, pursuant to Article 40a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Working Committee on the Conservation of National Monuments, has submitted a request for review and amendment of the Decision taken at the meeting of the Committee requesting the swift amendment of the contested Decision, I request the Committee for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH to review the above-mentioned request by the Head of the Municipality of Livno and to provide me with information on the activities undertaken, and to take into account all the new facts and documents not available at the time of the adoption of the contested decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u713	I thank Mrs. Krišto. Is there an answer at this point? There isn't. The question will be a written request for an answer. Thank you. With Mrs. Krišto question, we started another part of this agenda, which is new delegate issues. Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u714	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're a little permutative, I'm here about the answer that's come to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u715	Then it's due to the registration order, I apologize, Mrs. Krišto answered to ask a question and I don't have it here on the monitor.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u716	Okay, okay, thanks. I've got an answer today 10 minutes before this session begins. And, of course, I'm not happy with the answer, because the answer content only repeats facts that are already almost generally known, and I've also asked about these facts, so I'd like to ask the additional answer, and now I'm going to specify the question with certain, precise provisions of international obligations and rights. First of all, I must remind myself that in 2003, the House of Human Rights made a decision under which it ordered, undermining, the Federation of BiH to remove the source of discrimination. The Federation of BiH 9 has not done so until today. In the ruling, which is being called here, Karanović, it is true that general views have been made, that the source of discrimination must be removed. It has never been done, it has been three, four years, and that precisely in this verdict mentioned here, the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of Ms. Anka Pašalić and Mladen Šekarić, was explicitly ordered by B and H to remove sources of discrimination. It is explicitly ordered, so it is no longer a general warning, but an explicit warning to remove this source of discrimination. Therefore, the question is - Why didn't the public authorities in BiH do anything? Here is one given an elaborate on relations as it does in the area of the pension system, but I remind you that the European Convention on Human Rights, I think it's Article 41, precisely defines who is obliged to enforce human rights convictions. They're states. And I consciously asked the state, giving her the responsibility to provide the system to do so, to execute that verdict because it's obvious that there's no such position here that Federation B and H want to do so. Secondly, the Constitution of BiH states that human rights are in the so-called shared competence and that both states and entities are competent to provide, implement and protect human rights. I have to find out here what the consequences of these failures are. It says a lawsuit has been filed asking for 545 million KM. It's math. That 545 million is not the means that the courts, which are being called upon, permuted, that it is some money of a person who is not, whose right is not achieved, that is the money of the pensioners of the RS who made pension and at the monthly level, that is 8 million, 300 is now set aside for this category. In other words, 10% of pensions in RS are lower, 10% at the monthly level of each pensioner if these 8 million and 300 are refused, as per month. The judgments made in court have simplified the relationship that they dealt with certain rights. The question here is the property rights of the PIO RS Fund and how much I have been notified has even been applied to the European Court of Human Rights for this verdict. So I would ask a concrete answer - What is the state of B and H doing and what will they do to execute the Court's verdict in Strasbourg and the House of Human Rights? Pašalić-Šekarić-Sekaric's verdict is in the same status as Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci's ruling. Perhaps, not to hurt members of national minorities and others, and more drastically, because this is about 24,000 pensioners, 24,000 pensioners, or a 10% lower pension of every pensioner in RS, because since 2003, the Federation of BiH, as Mr Ivanic said, has not implemented a decision, full of mouth and rule of law and principles of legal certainty. Therefore, I ask that, of course in writing, I be added this answer and I would ask it to be included if an agent representing BiH is necessary to clarify the obligations of BiH to implement such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u717	I thank you. ...the question has been referred again. I ask the Technical Service to remove the disturbances related to a microphone that is functional on the work surface of a respected colleague, Mr Simić, as you have noticed that all produce certain noises that interfere with the careful monitoring of what he is talking about. 10 Now I would ask you to bear in mind that the call for registration had the character of the call for a statement about whether you were satisfied or not with the answer you received, but I have no chance on the monitor to know whether you applied for that kind of speech or to ask a new question. So now I'm asking, this is very easy for me to think about, so from the reported Mr. Merdžo, Rodić, Košarac, Bećirović, Nermina Kapetanović, so Mr. Košarac is re-declared, so who signed up to plead whether he is satisfied or not with the answer? Is there anyone else? Niko. Mrs. Kapetanović. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u718	I express my dissatisfaction with the fact that four months ago, I referred a delegate question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the effects of economic diplomacy B and H in the period 2006-2010, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not delivered an answer to me today as a delegate to this House. So I want to warn the Ministry's representatives again that they owe me that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u719	I thank you, it will be done. Mr. Genjac, is your application related to the statement or is there a record of you? It doesn't exist, all right. Thank you. We continue with a series of reports to ask new delegates questions. Mr. Josip Merdžo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u720	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, welcome to you, your colleagues and all your colleagues here. In fact, I don't have a new question, so so does my colleague Nermina Kapetanović. So at the sixth session, I asked a question that I had not yet received an answer and the deadlines were set. The reminders are therefore about the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court in charge of Parliament B and H to approach within its responsibilities certain activities around the BiH Election Law, as regards the City Council's election in the City of Mostar. Once again, I ask, because of the deadlines that, here, expire this month, to get an answer to my question - at what stage is the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision in the part relating to the BiH Parliament? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u721	I thank you. It will be answered in writing for your question. I hope so as soon as possible, and the ER will go ahead of the House of the People's Secretariat. Thank you. Dear colleague Dragutin Rodić came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u722	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question will be addressed to the Council of Ministers B and H concerning the following. Namely, does the Council of Ministers, in its programme of draft laws and guidelines in parliamentary procedure, intend to propose a Law on Monuments and mentioning features? I think it's a very important question for two reasons. The first is to mark the victims' places in the last war. And the second is that this area is regulated in a unique way. Since I have information, and I know that certain environments have addressed the Council of Ministers with these demands, here I am asking that this answer be given in writing and that after that, here in this form of response to delegate questions I am asking my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u723	I thank my colleague Rodić. My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u724	Thank you, Chairman. I want a question to ask the Ministry of Justice and, of course, I expect to get an answer in writing. In various forms of communication with citizens, their families, NGOs of different character, I am on several occasions informed that in an ununiversal way, unequal to all persons, or convicted persons, I apply positive legal regulations at BiH level, and above all refer to the benefits defined by law. Namely, it is about convicted persons of Serbian nationality based on a crime of war crime, where we have received information that, because apparently convicted persons have communication with each other, there are different application of the law at BiH level, so I would ask you to make one analysis of these allegations made in this delegate issue and, of course, in writing, to provide a more precise answer. Thank you. I'd like to thank my colleague, Košarac. Given the written response requested, although the minister is present here, I suggest that Mr. Minister be in writing. Thank you. The word came from a respected colleague, Hasan Bećirović. Here's a colleague of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues. I have a few short questions from the finance and vault minister. First question - In which banks, in which way, which procedure and under what conditions are depositary investment and transaction accounts opened as components of the single vault account? 12 Second question - Did the Ministry of Finance and the vault open and have there still open reserve supplementary accounts? If so, how many and for what purposes, which banks, what procedure, and under what conditions? Next question - Did the Ministry of Finance and Treasury invest public funds from a single vault account in 2009, 2010 and 2011, and, if so, in which instruments, in which way and under what conditions? 1 last - Did the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, in accordance with the law, appoint an investment manager and, if so, which and under what conditions? Of course, given the scope of these questions, I expect a written reply from the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u727	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanić came to the floor. Here you go, fellow Ivanic. M L A D E N
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u728	I remind you that by discussing the D.A.'s report, we have reached the conclusion that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is obliged to submit an analysis of the work of foreign prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office within 30 days. I'm asking the College-- is that analysis delivered? And if not, what does the College think about honoring our conclusion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u729	I thank my colleague Ivanic. It'll be written in writing. Dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić came to the floor. Here's a colleague of Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u730	I have two parliamentary questions. I'm not asking this question for a session. It's natural for us to negotiate at the SDP Club, but I think I've found enough reasons to hold an earlier session of the House of Peoples. I do, I say two questions. First -- in the report of the Budget, the BiH institution and international obligations for 2010 said that more than 30 million marks are paid annually for the lease of joint institutions in BiH. I ask the Council of Ministers of B and H to answer me - What institutions are they, must they be outside the Parliament building and the Council of Ministers building, if there is any unused space in them, is it necessary for most of them to be in the middle of the city? I'm asking the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security. A few days ago, organised by the Centre for Security Studies, a seminar on "Law legislation on weapons in BiH". I was present at this public debate and given the comprehensiveness and 13 multidisciplinary approach to weapons and explosives issues, it is necessary to achieve co-operation and coordination from state, through entity, to a local level that is not currently available. This can be achieved by including all entities in the realisation and harmonisation of the Arms Act which, I say, BiH still does not have. And I'm asking a question to the Council of Ministers -- when will the Bill of Weapons be found, when will this law be in parliamentary procedure? Of course, I'm looking for a written answer to this, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u731	I'd like to thank my colleague Bradarić. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u732	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have four questions referred to the Council of Ministers. First, - What has been done specifically by the BiH Veterinary Office towards the Roadmap to establish a functional system for animal labelling in BiH in line with EU standards, as a carrier of activities on: amending the penal provisions of the BiH Veterinary Law, creating new software for the labelling and registration of animal movements, - on the implementation of an information campaign and - strengthening the capacities of the Agency for the Marking of Animals in BiH by employing the necessary expert staff at the Agency. I note that the deadline for items 1 to 3 was 4 months this year and the deadline for the last item was 31.12.2010. My second question - Why did the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data BiH not impose sanctions for the continued violation of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data by employers who ask those who participate in competitive procedures to, along with the application for a job, deliver a conviction of impunity? My third question - Is there a possibility of establishing more than two border crossings with the Republic of Croatia before its entry into the EU? And the fourth question -- why is it that a large number of people who have been given a court sentence are free to go to the streets of BiH, since it affects the increase in the execution of crimes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u733	Thank you, Mr. Kapetanović. Do other delegates want to continue participating in this agenda? No, I don't. Thank you. 14 I find that we have completed item 2 of the agenda. We're moving to three agendas, Ad. 3. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on Census of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011 - Proposer of the conclusion: College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH The Faculty of the People's House of the Paraliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 7th session, held on 09.11.2011, adopted the proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Bill on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH 2011. In this regard, the College of the House of Peoples proposes to adopt the following conclusion to the House of Peoples: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH extends the amendment phase for the Proposed Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2011 by 30 days from the date of adoption of this conclusion at the meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you. Excuse me, dear colleague Mladen Ivanić. Here's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u735	Can we, I'll ask one business question again, extend this unlimited? I'm serious, because every 30 days it's gonna show up, and then every time we do, it's gonna be public time to complain about what we're doing. Either we pass the law or we don't bring it. If we're not going to bring it, then let's say it won't be brought. I'm gonna bring it. And like this every 30 days, the extension of the amendment phase, I think it's pointless. If there is a business possibility I suggest that the amendment phase extends to an unlimited time limit, so that not everyone comes, we will have to have sessions for this, only because of this we will have to have sessions, in order to extend 30 days. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u736	I thank my colleague Ivanic. Is anyone else answering for word? There are no reports. Thank you. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion. According to the proposal for a conclusion, of the 14 present, there were 11.3 delegates withheld. The Federation 7 was for, 2 abstentions, from the Serbian 4 for and 1 abstention. With the existence of a general and entity majority I find the conclusion adopted. 15 We move to the point of the four agenda, Add.4. Proposal for a law on the application of DNK analysis results in court proceedings (second reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Constitutional Commission has adopted a bill of 18 amendments. The House of Representatives is at the 77th session, I'm sorry what this is, that last call, I apologize, held on 12th,... Bećirović did not really go that far, excuse me, held on 12.05.2010 and passed the Law on the application of DNA results in court proceedings with 18 amendments. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u738	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u739	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u740	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u741	Well, we don't have to participate in the discussion if, well, we should continue with Ivanić, so, at the club, you weren't there yesterday, I'm really sorry. So, I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, my colleague, Krstan Simić. Here's my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a report before us and you've seen, there's no need to repeat it, and the history of passing this law takes a long time. Mr. Rodić(?) and I have been restrained, given that the basic text of the law has 32 members and has 18 amendments. We have received a new amendment, and we believe that really in one of these laws we cannot allow to have 18 amendments before the law is passed. We believe that the law is not prepared and gives this serious question and therefore we will not support this law with one more note, that there are some unresolved issues because the House in the last meeting also received a letter from the international community which suggested that it would stop this, by adopting this law in order to resolve some of the issues. And I don't think those questions are settled yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u743	My colleague Simić, so I appreciate... 16
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u744	And at the same time, I'm staying on the record, and there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u745	Well, I think because of the Rules of Procedure, so you've been given the floor as chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u746	Yeah, I gave it right away, so I wouldn't comment later.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u747	Here, I'm asking this not to be a practice in the future because it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure, but good. They say he can't come back. Now I give the word to the bill promoter, if he's present? If he wants to, of course? Thank you, fellow Čolak. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I invite you to engage in the discussion. Word came through, dear colleague Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. H A L I D
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u748	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The chronology around this law and its reach to this moment is very long. We will all agree that this new matter, quite current in B and H in the last maybe several years and that, of course, there is a need to regulate and by law, because the use of this method is quite present and very effective. The Council of Ministers drafted a bill that came into parliamentary procedure in early 2010 seeking, of course, to make, as best as possible, a legal norm, especially since it is closely related to this law and the work of the newly established Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts at the BiH Ministry of Security. After passing the law in the procedure, it is indeed seen that, in addition to trying to best shape the practice into the law, all our specificities in our legislation have been observed in criminal law. The need to clarify some of the issues has been observed, and a significant number of amendments have arisen as a result of the 2-3 problem group. So one group of issues has been related to European legislation and this area does not refer to legally binding standards of European legislation. However, as the European Integration Directorate's Report on Consensus with..., the European Commission issued one conclusion, i.e. a recommendation that mainly concerns respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the application of the results of dezoxyribonucleic acid analysis, and there was a need for certain issues to be brought into contact with the proposed law and brought into line with this. That's one question. 17 Secondly, a group of issues were related to the need to ensure institutional transition in terms of the training of the Agency for Forensics, for this area, to ensure this transition period so as not to create a vacuum, etc. The third group is tied to clarifying the issues regarding equipment and the conclusion of the representative's household went from an opportunity to the Ministry of Security in that the Ministry of Security answers what is with the equipment that is very sophisticated for forensics, expensive. The Department of Security delivered an answer, and that's where it works. We all got that answer. Of the two, three groups of equipment, very expensive donated by the international community, signed security ministry protocols and police agencies in entities. One piece of equipment is located in the Federal Police Department, related to DNA, the other part is located in Banja Luka, related to narcotics, also sophisticated equipment. The owner of all these equipment is the BiH Ministry of Security, and the transfer of these equipment will, in accordance with annexes and protocols, ensure that this is prescribed by the procedure, all efforts to prevent possible discontinuity in the functioning and operation of these laboratories. And the fourth group of issues that may have been the most intervention in the law, but no intervention is a conceptal nature in the law. The fourth group of interventions was for the reason that, when we were in the House of Representatives, we started the procedure and as the committee responsible, we found that there were a number of issues to be clarified, precise, and it was concluded that a group from the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives was appointed, even to be held a public debate, which took place on 17 March 2010. 1 participated in this public debate a large number of experts, forensic experts, even from the region, Croatia, Serbia, entity, forensics in general and forensics exclusively for this analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid, legal experts, ministry representatives, representatives of the Agency for Forensics, Parliamentarians, etc. A series of meetings of this group of parliamentarians with all representatives of the ministry, agencies, forensics, laboratories and the amendments were held after the debate. And the result of those talks, which lasted I think one 3-4 months, is this group of amendments. It is a significant number of amendments, but no amendment changes the concept of the law. And all these amendments are either an clarification, or a professional precision, or ensuring this institutional transition, or definitions that are in some way related to standards in this area, or clarifications that ensure, or improve the application of the Convention on Human Rights in this area of application of the results of deoxyribonucleic acid analysis, which is also an ethical issue of a very sensitive nature. These amendments were adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives. After that, the law was passed at the House of Representatives. That's the end of the term. We have now renewed these amendments on the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, so we have continued the procedure as the Rules of Procedure provides. In 99%, these are mostly the same amendments. 1 I think this law is necessary, it is necessary to go, to start this transition period, to start by adopting the necessary regulations, to establish a laboratory and its, in the Forensic Agency, a laboratory for DNA analysis in the necessary capacity, with the necessary expertise, with the necessary accreditations, and to finally begin this work and this laboratory at the Agency. I don't think the number of amendments submitted to the law is sufficient for the law to be accepted or challenged. I think the essence and character of these amendments matter. The number of amendments, that's one thing. And the other thing, as far as these assets and these questions are concerned, and these labs, that question is fully clarified, we have the Security Department's answer. 1 I don't think so, 18 at least I didn't hear the argument that would go in favor of not passing the law. All arguments say that the law is necessary and that it needs to be adopted. I think, maybe if there's a need for certain amendments that they actually bring to some debate, I don't think that's necessary right now. We all got the amendments, we had the law, but mostly the amendments relate to these four types of interventions. With this in mind that the date of application of the law, the date of application of the law has been moved about a year since today's eventual adoption in order to ensure all the necessary transitional procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u749	I thank my esteemed colleague, Genjac. My dear colleague, Brojana Krišto, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u750	Thank you very much. Here are the reasons set out in this law that are really visible and they are talking about a very significant law and law that needs B and H and also a law that needs to be harmonised with international standards. It is a law that serves to detect perpetrators of criminal offences, while simultaneously eliminating individual suspects as perpetrators of criminal offences, and also serves to identify persons and corpses. However, what I was asked as a question, and this is what my colleague said, which I spoke to the Committee in constitutional terms, is that the law has 33 articles from basic to final, and that there is actually no article that is not changing these amendments. I also welcomed it at the Committee, and here in front of this House, I would like to welcome the efforts of a respected fellow Genjac, who is really along with his probably professional team, because this law is really such that professionals, both in the field of medicine and in the area of law must do it. And I am not convinced at this point, and I did not get the answers, of course, because our commission was not even technical processors, in any way the legislators of this law, so I said that I would support these amendments, but of course open the debate on this House, which brings me into question and I'm asking myself and all of us -- who is the institution other than the resolution ministry, or the technical processor of the law to the Council of Ministers and to homes, who should be, let's say, more professional, competent, who should consult the profession, if not that ministry, especially considering, here's the fact that the amendments concern some, let's say, more precise, clearer definitions and refer to certain norms that would somehow contribute to the clarity of the application of certain norms. But here's just one comment of the amendment that we received and which was tabled before the session, it talks about the powers to give orders, so here, let's say, as a lawyer, the question is, why the Court and the Prosecutor? In fact, it can be delivered to an institution one, it should be done by the Court, meaning within that. So at this point, it just puts me in a dilemma about how to define myself against this law, and given the reasons and the need and the alignment of international standards, and all I can say is to pass a law that will really be quality and that will simply enable everyone, by applying it, to say, a clearer procedure and to satisfy justice at the end in the institutions where it is and the place. 19 Thank you very much, so I want to hear after this and the attitude of the technical processor of the law, so that in the end, although I already have some attitude at this point, I can determine against the clarifications of both the amendments and the whole text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u751	I thank my esteemed colleague, Krišto. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u752	Mr. Chairman. Why is this law important? From both medical and legal aspects and security aspects, some items need to be repeated under the law. The analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid represents, in some ways, a new form of scientific evidence, whose results are accepted by all courts around the world, almost everyone. It's about technology, which is almost universally accepted in most of the world's first systems. Very important, according to counterpart Krišto, this analysis is in researching criminal activities and identifying the identity of persons as well as in proving relations. It's a method that certainly counts in the most sophisticated achievements that exist in the field of science. In the criminal justice system, the DNA analysis right now promotes technology in terms of art, which is necessary in order to detect the perpetrators of criminal offences, i.e. for the proper and complete identification of the relevant factual situation in a concrete criminal procedure, which in BiH very often did not have the possibility of such a thing. It was precisely because of such a development of science that has succeeded, that is to say, in advanced countries, both the EU and the world, that the most important values of each rule of law have been preserved, i.e. to ensure that no one innocent is convicted, and that the perpetrator of a criminal offence is punished in accordance with the law and on the basis of the legal proceedings carried out. The DNA analysis was a revolutionary, therefore scientific progress in detecting the perpetrators of criminal offences and is a response to the increasingly professional approach of the perpetrators in planning the initiation, and to concealing traces of the crime, as well as the Bosnian Herzegovic legislation very often encounters. It is, therefore, that science provides key answers. It also works through the amendments of Mr. Halid Genjac's esteemed colleague and the legislator of this law, and that's what she does, and that's what she does. What's the point of all this? Increase the security of citizens and reduce the security and confidence of perpetrators of criminal offences, especially their intention to commit new crimes. In the segment of that, I realized some of the amendments to the esteemed fellow Genjac. As more and more countries establish and spread their forensic DNA databases, the possibility of successfully exchanging data between countries is also increasing. That's also necessary for B and H. This makes it impossible for perpetrators who commit crimes to move freely, without fear that their file will follow them to commit the same or any other crime, but outside the country in which he has already committed it. If the database of DNA profiles stored in individual state databases is not complete, such as in BiH, i.e. the weaker database of a particular country as it is with us, it is more attractive for individual perpetrators to plan and commit crimes. M and we have to stop it. 20 In line with this need, there is also a question of the need to bring our criminal justice system in line with country systems around the world. I mean, in terms of meeting the basic objective of changing our criminal justice system in order to ensure the protection of the highest values of our legal system, i.e. ensuring the security of citizens by preventing the perpetrator of certain criminal offences in the commission, possible repetition or concealment of them, and punishing the perpetrator of some crime for the offence committed. Therefore, the question is, will BiH be quick to access the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act if this law is passed and whether we will follow the positive practice that our neighbours, from the Republic of Croatia, who have brought their criminal law into line with this very important law, both for their country and for all countries of the world, and, as far as I know, by the information I have, is currently in the parliamentary procedure and the Law on the execution of prison sentences, i.e. the Law on amendments to prison sentences. I think that's something to do in BiH, too, but I appreciate the efforts of both the promoters and the amendments' investors. I believe that by its character and importance, this is therefore not necessary, but a necessary law for the BiH state and the security of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u753	I thank my esteemed colleague, Kapetanović. My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u754	Thank you, Chairman. I would, of course, like to apostrophe the fact that it is very important for us to pass this law for a number of reasons. In the context of the response I received on the parliamentary issue regarding the work of the Missing Persons Institute, including the impact of the international community in that domain, there is, of course, a response to the adoption of the DNA law. Of course, I estimate that this is very important from the aspect of the process of searching for the missing and, of course, all other activities in detecting the crime, the various forms of crime in BiH. And there's no dilemma. However, I would like to say a few words and to open up a little more openly, I would say, and vile intentions in the amendments that have been delivered here to the House of Peoples. It's about the next one. First of all, the Law on the Police Coordination Directorate and the Police Structure Support Agency, which was adopted in 2008, was precisely defined by the need to adopt, or function the work of the Agency for Forensic Studies, which began in February 2009. M and we are often actors of the Commission's work, at least some colleagues work, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security where we see the Agency's management committed to doing its job, trying to address certain issues in the framework of budget support and to put the Agency on its good feet. The key question is the equipment donated in 2006 and the key problem is the usurpation of the equipment by the Federal MUP. And instead of starting by making the law more precisely define who has this equipment, today we tend to continue to use it by the Federal MUP, supporting the fact that there are a lot of experts in the Federal MUP dealing with this issue. I'll tell you there's no experts. I will tell you that only one employee or employee has received a certificate from Croatian experts and that only one person, or under the alleged signs, has been given permission to work, that he cannot work on his own, or 21 that he can work together with this authorised expert. I'll also tell you that both experts are on sick leave where one of them is sure to be, and whoever has permission to work alone, at least two years. When we compare it with the amendment proposal, we see that there's something else we want to do here. And that's the key problem. I will also remind you that in 2010, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asked the BiH Ministry of Security to establish in contact with the Federal Police Administration the right to use donated equipment, and if this is the BiH state, to ensure the transfer of this equipment to the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts. I'm sorry, Mr. Genjac. I've spoken to the other colleagues. Niko of us have seen the official response of the Ministry of Security. Let me be a member of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, that we are more than once, here's Mrs. Krišto confirming it, I've talked about it many times, I don't think we have, maybe you do, but we don't have an act of the Ministry of Security that's talking about it. Of course, if we wanted to define precisely the right to use, i.e. the availability of property, we would also respect the European Commission's position as the donor of this equipment where it was found that this must first be defined by law. We have the Agency at BiH level. I expected that we would have a common position to support the development of the resources of agencies that are at BiH level. I may be mistaken, but I think these are issues which, of course, I will also say that there are others, when we enter into the analysis of the structure of amendments to the law, we have certain other issues, and I think that, of course, it would be best to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this law, that we do not declare ourselves today and try to find a way to put a lot more effort through the future amendment phase into the content of the amendments and that finally this amendment in this(?) We adopt procedures, that is, to adopt this law in the procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u755	I thank my colleague, Košarac. If there are no more reports, no more replicas, we move to... H A L I D
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u756	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u757	I'm sorry, I don't have a monitor, Mr. Genjac. Youmoratiti have to do it again. Mr. Genjac, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go, fellow Genjac. H A L I D
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u758	Well, I don't know whose foul intentions my Košarac is referring to, but in any case, I don't think that's appropriate for that vocabulary in this conversation, I think. Whether he was referring to the promoter or the amendments, I don't know, but every amendment has a certain content. Amendments are being discussed on the committee, anti-amendments are being reacted to, and so on. 22 The issue of property and the issue of equipment that has been donated can be resolved in one way or another. In any case, that equipment was donated in the kit and the intention was to work forensics in one place. That narcotics are working on the site once in Banja Luka, that forensics are done suddenly in Sarajevo, until the Agency is established in full capacity and is given the necessary accreditation. So, that is the intention and that is, the Protocol signed between the USAID, the international community and these agencies, all police agencies including the Ministry of Security, and that is the Ministry of Security who owns the property under the Protocol. I don't know how it happened that this official, indeed official letter from the Ministry of Security didn't work out, I do, and it fully explains in detail what it's about and about, and it shows that there's no pretentious intention whatsoever, giving it a simple area that's well regulated by the Protocol. So, I think it would be useful, we have a business opportunity to reach a conclusion to extend the amendment phase. In order to save this law and the need to clarify some dilemmas, and given the effort made and the importance of this law, I don't think it would be too bad to extend the amendment phase, and in the interest of saving the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u759	I understand this replica of the esteemed colleague of Genjac and as a question relating to the proper interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and as regards the possibility of extending the amendment phase at this stage of the procedure. The Secretary of the House of Peoples, meanwhile, checked the Rules of Procedure and came to the next conclusion which I hope to convey to you in an integral manner - that after the Commission's report and after the procedure has been completed, i.e. At this stage of the procedure, we cannot renew the amendment phase because it has passed. So we can plead to the law now or later in the same text, which means there is no longer the possibility of restoring the amendment phase. Accordingly, I would now ask, if there is such a will to delay the statement of such a text of the law, such as this, to make it either public or written or verbally spoken. So, I will accept, of course, both, by saying, that the delay actually means a delay in the statement of this text of the law, as I was therefore informed by the Secretary of the House who, in the meantime, took advantage of the duration of your replica, so he checked it in his Rules of Procedure. I suppose, uh, here you go, fellow Genjac, on behalf of the club, just a moment, is the microphone working? Work, go ahead. H A L I D
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u760	Therefore, we have, when at the House, the plenary session finally declares the law, a report by the competent commission containing the amendments is accepted, and amendments that dispute the amendments tabled at the Commission's session can be tabled. I think we could find a place there to postpone the bill's statement and at the same time allow 24 hours or 48 hours before the law's declaration, until then that the deadline for amendments that challenge amendments or in some way change them. There's room here if we decide, the Rules of Procedure don't defend it. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u761	Mr. Genjac, I'd be happy to, but I've been given the opportunity to read Article 112. Rules of Procedure. The delegates and clubs of the people may propose amendments that dispute the amendments adopted by the Commission. These amendments shall be delivered no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the House session. At this stage where we are now, that part of the process is finally over. And that makes it impossible for us to act in the proposed way. So I'm really sorry, we talked about this at the College, it's just the situation, here. Can I help you, sir, Mr. Merdžo or Mr. Genjac? Mr. Merdžo signed up earlier. Here's your esteemed colleague, Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u762	Thank you very much. Well, there's some way out of this situation, so if there's no vote, if we postpone the vote, then that's why we extended the amendment phase. So we don't have to vote here on the extension of the amendment phase, but I think that colleague Košarac has suggested that the plea be postponed. In the meantime, we could also get this memo from the Ministry of Security, so maybe some things would be clearer, and that, as I understand it and as I interpret the Rules of Procedure, would then give us time for this amendment 24 hours or 48, as far as it stands, until the moment of the statement of the law itself. So I'd suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u763	You and your colleague, Merdžo, have understood the Genjac in the same way I understand. The problem, however, is that we have to do a follow-up point in the same place where we left off, not from the beginning to the point we have to go. So we can delay the plea for a plea, but we don't get the option to repeat everything. So it repeats itself, it starts where we left off. And we've stopped at a closed debate and a situation so that we can plead, so for or against, now or later. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. I wouldn't want to... Here you go, Mr. Genja, here I am really very much working to make, just a moment, that, again, there is no application for you, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u764	I suggest a five-minute break for the College and club presidents to agree. Maybe we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u765	I'll allow it. Excuse me, colleague Krišto just before the break. Here you go, pal Krišto. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u766	Thank you very much. On the trail of all these proposals, and respecting the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, I think that in this situation we can postpone the statement without having the possibility of having this one we talked about, regardless of when we held a session for the extension of the amendment phase, but we have the possibility to include a resolution ministry in this emerging situation, i.e. a technical processor and a legislator, bearing in mind that we have not stated ourselves today. It's possible that one of the solutions is to say the immediate withdrawal from the procedure before the plea, so that, I don't know, they join these amendments, some of them co-ordinate and so on. And here's the thing, it's one of the options that we wouldn't say right now if we didn't have the law or the other. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u767	My kolegica Krišto, at the request of Mr Genjac and your proposal to pause for 5 minutes, agreeing with the chair chair, club chiefs and promoter. [[PAUZA]] Okay, we can keep working on this agenda point. The word is from a respected colleague of Halid Genjac. I'm asking you to just report your participation. Here you go, fellow Genjac. H A L I D
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u769	Thank you. M and we have quite agreed, members of the College and the chairman of clubs, the following conclusion: - The report of the Constitutional Legal Commission to the People's House on the Proposal for Law on the application of the results of analysis of deoxyribonucleic acid in court proceedings is returned to the Constitutional Legal Commission for review. The people's home is in charge of the Constitutional Legal Commission to draw up a new report. The People's House approves of the extension of the amendment phase, so that the amendment phase at this proposal of the law takes no later than 48 hours to hold a session of the Constitutional Commission, at which this proposal will be discussed in phase two.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u770	Thank you. I'm just suggesting that we supplement this conclusion. Therefore, the conclusion which obliges the Constitutional Commission to inform all delegates in due time about the maintenance of its session how, in the event they wish to deliver their amendment, they would not miss that option. Are there any more reported for discussion? No, I don't. Thank you. Now, in the course of this debate, and before its conclusion, we move to a statement on the proposed conclusion in relation to the report of the committee responsible. 25 I invite you to hold the vote. Here you go. Thank you. Of those present, 1 2 - 1 2 delegates were in favour. From the Federation - 7, from Serbia - 5. With the existence of a general and entity majority, I find this conclusion adopted. We end up working on this agenda point. We're going to the five-day stand, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account (second reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading, and in the second reading we have a debate on amendments and we are voting on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Constitutional Commission has adopted the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives adopted the Law amending the Law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of the old foreign savings in the proposed text. I give my word to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, or to its representative, if that is what he wants. No, I don't. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and if he wishes. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. There are no reports, thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the bill. Thank you. Out of 13, there were 13 delegates. From the Federation - 8, from Serbia - 5. There is a general and entityal majority, so I find the Law amending the Law on the Alignment of Obligations based on the account of the old foreign exchange savings was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions (first reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u773	Oh, I'd just like one clarification from the motionary to beg. In its opinion, the Directorate for European Integration points out that Article 24 relating to the establishment of the BH-HRMIS system, which serves to record personal official data of staff in institutions in terms of a given explanation, which fully excludes the application of the Personal Data Protection Act. Therefore, this Article calls on, therefore, the application of the Personal Data Protection Act to be excluded from the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. I would ask, if the motionor or representative of the proposing is present, so Article 24 relating to amendments to Article 62 in point 2 is this, is this being said in the opinion of the Directorate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u774	I thank my fellow Genjac. My dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, came forward. Mrs. Krišto, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u775	Thank you. Indeed, these amendments to the Law of State Service are based and stemmed from the need to apply this law. Since the first reading says I won't do much, but indeed with some suggestion that these changes that we are doing are such as to ensure proper and consistent application, I would say that in these proposed amendments there is a lot that shows, to say, in the absence of legal certainty, and in some way directly violates and Article 6. European Conventions on Fundamental Human Rights and in fact the Constitution of BiH. So I would just as a suggestion to the proposer and, in some ways, to all of us, by the time the law comes into the amendment phase, I would say, let's say Article 2, it's mentioned here, it's technically true, so probably the slip happened, says a certain numbering 41 is deleted, it's not absolutely in the law. And what I would also point out is that Article 5.b) says -- state officials of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, it's said that the provisions of this law apply to these institutions, and then it says -- if the special law is not different, with the same amendments to this law, we have provisions that say that this law does not apply to employees in the Central Bank, the Office of Ombudsmen and so on. I am saying this for reasons why amendments to the law should contain provisions that they say, which exclude, meaning which institutions, this should be one article and that it contains all those institutions to which it does not apply. And one, the general provision that it has besides this, which states the provisions of this law apply also to employees of independent regulatory and other non-numeral institutions, if the special law is not indicated or specified. 27 I'm saying this because we have, so now in this case, a provision relating to an institution that rules out in a special way, unless it's by law, and we have a general provision that on this... So here, in that sense, is a suggestion to the Proposer to take a little bit more into account, in order to somehow have less of this kind of uncertainty and uncertainty in terms of the application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u776	I thank my esteemed colleague, Krišto. There are no others reported for participation in this discussion, but given Mr. Genjac's question, I ask the promoter if he wants to participate in the discussion? Mr. Genjac, we'll have to settle for a response like this. It's the right of executive authority. Thank you. I'm concluding a discussion on this agenda point. I invite you to move on to a plea. Thank you. Under the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Service in the BiH institutions in the first reading, of the 13 delegates present - 13 delegates were in favour. From the Federation - 8, from Serbia - 5. Since there is both the general majority and the entity majority, I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH (first reading) - Proposer: Council of Ministers This is the first reading of the bill, so first we have a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Joint Defence and Security Commission has accepted the principles of the bill's proposal. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples, Mr. Krstan Simić, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. Thank you. I now give the word to the rapporteur of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mrs Borjana Krišto, if she wants to, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u778	28 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u779	Thank you. I'm giving the word now to the legislator if he wants to. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. There are no reports. Thank you. Now we move on to a plea on this agenda point. Here you go. Thank you. In the first round, under the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Servants of BiH since the presence of 1 3 - 1 3 delegates was in favour. From the Federation - 8, from Serbia - 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find the draft law amending the Law on Police Officers of BiH was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report on activities on the project "Autoput at Corridor 5c" and plan of the following activities You have received the Commission's opinion on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. This Commission has adopted the Report, and proposes to adopt the following conclusion to the House: - the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH, the Committee for the Control of Realisation of the Corridor 5c project, the Entity Ministry of Transport and Communication and the competent entity public enterprises involved in the project "A Autopute on Corridor 5c" to do their job more responsibly and efficiently with maximum coordination in accordance with their respective competences. The House of Representatives adopted the Final Report. I give my word to the chairman, Mr Hasan Bećirević. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u781	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u782	Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present. Dear fellow Minister Rudo Vidović. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u783	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I feel the need just to say two sentences. In fact, on the agenda is the 2010 Activity Report, concluded at 31.12.2010, and we are here before the end of 2011. For these reasons, the competent institutions that distributed this Report also had a need to draw certain conclusions as the issues of disputed parts of the route arose. In this regard, therefore, despite this conclusion, what the Commission has proposed is the adoption of this Report, these other conclusions, which relate to the intensifying of activities in better cooperation between all institutions involved in this work on this project "A Autopute on Corridor 5c", are also logical, therefore, to the competence of the European Commission which has been intensively involved in the resolution of disputed parts of the route these days, and this has been adopted by the Council of Ministers by a separate information which is actually attached to this Report. Here, I had a need to say, since it is possible that in the next period and the House of Nations they will receive such information that has been adopted by the Council of the Minstars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u784	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm opening a debate. The word came to mind, dear colleague Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go, Mr. Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u785	Thank you. Every government makes sense if there's results behind it, so let's say miles of highways. The fact that this one, both in regular and technical terms, and those before, can't be boasted that God knows what they've done, in five years, five miles of highway. Here we are alone to assess whether this is enough, if we take our neighbours - Croatia makes 100 km of highway annually. That wasn't just me saying, all this could be heard in the House of Representatives session. I've been there, I'm going there, I'm hosting, but it could also be heard on the Transport and Communications Commission, which was held on 05.10, where it was said and jointly found that the inadmissible realization of the activities on the Corridor 5c highway so far is unacceptable. I've been to both debates, and I've heard a lot, a lot of it, found out, and I'm better off not being a man who knows more and doubts more and more. In a public hearing, everyone blamed everything. The minister, former Transport and Communications Minister Ljubić blamed the former federal government because, for a million reasons, it essentially did something. There have been objections to why the Government of R is not to blame even though it has a commitment to Corridor 5c because it is, but be careful enough, because Hungary and Croatia have finished their part of the corridor and then you must simply accept and realize that it was purely politicisation. Of course, the former federal government should be blamed, if anything... for accepting some declassified prices. It is clear when you accept such prices that there is something behind it and so on. At the 155th meeting of the Council of Ministers, held on 13 July, it was repeated, for who knows which time, the conclusion, I read it -- it is supported by the Ministry of Transport and Communications to continue the preparatory activities which will allow for the speedy construction of the Highway on Corridor 5c 30 through BiH. So, at the end of 2010, and now in 2011, strangely enough, it's really weird to talk about some kind of preparatory activity. What I mean is, this shows the responsibility and obligations of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but then from the minister in this public debate we haven't heard, the former minister, a word of self-criticism. The attacks went to Minister Vrankić, although one of them is, I think, I sat in the gallery and..., unwarranted, because he arranges that after several unused loans and even those given for public spending, you say stop with these loans, but it is not okay to stop one loan of 166m euros from the European Investment Bank and thus threaten to postpone the choice of contractors and so on, especially when they say that the loan was free of interest. I don't know if that's true. In principle, such loans should be taken. I wish we could get more. I'm not sure we get it easy, just like the rich and the poor take it. America owes 15,000 billion euros and takes loans like that and works and works. Italy, which is practically bankrupt, is 2,000 billion euros in debt and takes those loans, works. Neighbors, Croatia is 47 billion euros in debt, but of course they take those loans and work. That's why they have what they have. There's really a lot to learn from that. Also, I'm, I'm saying, I've written pretty much everything. We've heard from both the former and current minister of traffic and the communication criticism of the federal government, which of the 12 or 13 options offered, has not accepted any single variant. Apparently, he's looking for a new variant, but we've also heard that tycoons, people down there say that the relevant people say that someone bought the land and that they're all trying to make sure that corridor goes that way, that land. I kind of believe that and, but personally, I'd like to go that way really, because that basically means the fastest resolution of that section of the corridor. And I hope that after that, this country too will be gnawing... that sometimes someone will be responsible for those shops. I wouldn't be in their place, I wouldn't sleep well. So, really politicizing everywhere and the results of none. I say in five years, we only have five miles. And I remind you this is a corridor, an international corridor. So Croatia has finished its own, Hungary, we have a commitment also to end and I only hope that some new structure of government without any politicisation, that people must respond to the citizens from where they come from, that they will start with a more intense dynamic, start with the realization of this corridor. You don't have to tell us what he means to us all, that he means investment. Whoever passed lik there saw that it was a very passive end, and indeed today a very regrettable end for investment and so on. Therefore, the European Commission is also pushing us to do so, and this is what these international financial institutions are pushing us to do, and I know that interest is being paid on unused loans, but in this situation you better lose so little and so little profit, so you don't have to give up on such loans. We all simply need to make an effort to get to the realization as quickly as possible and that, here and now, the answer, here we are asking the minister, here we are asking - when will Corridor 5c be completed, at least, if not 100% when its 50, 60% share will be completed? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u786	I thank my colleague Bradarić. A dear colleague, Stjepan Krešić, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Krešić. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u787	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. It's obvious there's nothing in this country that we can do without politicizing and then normal or freeways. As counterpart Bradarić said, he gives everything politicized and this highway, but I have the need to defend the present minister, Mr. Rud Vidović, because he is the most responsible and my little one gives because of this politicisation of the highway that has been stopped for years to leave the south and he is one of the most responsible for ever building a highway from the south. So, for political reasons, someone made up the highway at Blagay, Mostar, and Pocier's, making up stories about buying land, and I don't know what, to stop that highway. At that time, I was the chairman of the Federal House of the People, so with the help of the present Minister, Mr. Rude Vidović, I removed and, at least, to do the part that is not disputed for that reason, took the highway from the south, and here comes Bog's praise, she started building, but 5 horses in construction. I will comment slightly on the border crossings that are important for Croatia's entry, between Croatia and BiH. Croatia if Bog enters the EU half of 2013, which should be BiH's advantage, rather than its lack. As things stand now, it will be a great shortage for us in BiH, not an advantage, because two planned border crossings, one of them is also on Corridor 5c, Bijaca-Metkovic 2, which has not yet been built. I'm appealing to the ministry to do everything to make that part, meaning the border crossing that's in the jurisdiction of how I see the ministries, so the highway is on its way, but the border crossing isn't working yet, we've got a year. By 1 January 2013, it must be fully operational in order to take over and take over all these goods to two border crossings for those 6 months. According to a colleague, two border crossings, which will be when Croatia enters the EU, will cause problems for BiH's economy, will increase enormous costs and should therefore be negotiated, agreed and more border crossings included as possible when Croatia is in the EU. Another corridor that is very important, which is in the south and I want to comment on it, the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor which, if Bog gives and matches, information that I have, with this koridor 5c, I recommended to the ministry and to take up and that this corridor passes through BiH territory. It's very important and that corridor doesn't matter like this corridor, but it's extremely important. So, at the end of this information provided by the ministry, the ministry correctly presented all the data that is happening on the ground, in what way, the recommendations gave us a way to speed up the construction of Corridor 5c. Investment in Corridor 5c, investment in infrastructure is an investment in development. When we in BiH understand what investment in infrastructure means, if we don't understand, we can see an example of neighbours that a significant number and tourists and everything comes to that country where... the highway is. So, the road infrastructure is inevitable for us to work as fast as possible, it's a driver for the development of the country. Here, I would also ask the minister, so -- what about the southern entrance to BiH, meaning the Bijac border crossing, when will it start? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u788	Thank you too, colleague Krešić. Other delegates have not applied for participation in the discussion on this agenda point, but of course we cannot deny the right of colleagues, Mr. Minister, if he wishes. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Rudo Vidović. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u789	Thank you very much. I say hello again. So, my presence at the committee sessions and both at home, and here are the responsible people from the ministry who run this project, so the main coordinator of the Corridor 5c unit, is actually expecting this kind of debate. For these reasons, I am also glad that, here at the House of Peoples and through certain findings, so... MPs and questions need to clarify the ambiguities that have actually been given an unnecessary dimension. I want to repeat a few key things here when it comes to the biggest infrastructure project in BiH, so Highway to Corridor 5c, a pan-European corridor that is not only important for BiH but also for Europe. For these reasons, I repeat, the European Commission has been actively involved in resolving disputed parts and issues on this project. So we are talking about common and individual competences and precisely ambiguities and problems arise when it is not clearly defined, that part of the common competence. So, the BiH state with its two entities and counties in the Federation and municipalities across all levels through its institutions plays a common role in the competences of defining the issue of the project. I'm going to talk about the State Department's competences that actually apply to preparations. Preparations for the construction of this project include all activities while the buffers, literally, do not enter the property and until the construction part of the operation begins. And much and most of it is actually the creation of an idea solution, certain studies of technical feasibility, idea projects, traffic studies and a series of studies that actually prior to the development of the main project involve, so the involvement of competent institutions, design and others, which, in fact, when establishing the highway on Corridor 5c, need to explore more variants and ultimately, based on a multi-critical analysis concluded which is the most favourable and best. So, from Svilaj to Bijač, this idea project has been done by the state ministry, according to its powers since it was founded, so in 2003, so far. The trail actually ended for the 130km project for seven lotes, which these contracts were paid, contracted and last year complete project documentation with revision, the total audit was actually handed to federal institutions, the Public Undertaking for the Federation highways, and it has since been leading activities on land expropriation along with municipal and county institutions, to the moment of tendering and selection of contractors for works. For these reasons, here is Mr. Krešić mentioned, in the south are actually running activities on construction, so the bangers entered the southern part of the route. Also these days, work begins in the north on the bridge, on the Sava River, in Svilaj, after a signed agreement with the Republic of Croatia. And of course, the activities will go from point north to south, I'm sure when we ask, when we're talking about the deadline, if the ambiguities that exist now and I'm also convinced that we'll clear up by 2020, we'll join. What I also want to say here is that one of the important preparatory activities of the state level of government is, therefore, an idea solution, in addition to project technical documentation, project review, the important role is to provide financial resources. I remind you that the Council of Ministers, Resort Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Communications and Transport in recent years has secured half a billion euros. So half a billion euros were provided for the construction of 130km of highway shares for which complete documentation was completed. Also, when we talk about an entity of the RS, I have to point out that the activities on the development of the main project, the idea project and all the ambiguities that existed long ago have been resolved. And in this situation, he's looking for a funding model for 46km through RS. And if there were actually no problem shares in Počilj, Blagaj, so now, from the other day and the White 33 Field, I am sure that the activities would have already started in the south, even longer than Bijaca to Zvirović, so towards Počilje and towards the northern entrance loop, Mostar's loop. As for Mr Krešić's issues, we signed with the Republic of Croatia last year, so 01.12., the agreement, so the agreement with the Republic of Croatia for the connection points in Svilaj and the southern shares in this year, which actually involves building, joint construction of border crossings. The Svilaj will relate to the joint construction of the 50:50% bridge, and in the south for the construction of separate border crossings in which the competent Committee for the implementation of this project in the Federation is headed by Minister Vrankić, together with the entity ministers and the Directorate for indirect taxation, reached agreement that owners of the border crossings and with the road, specifically in the south 1,100 meters long and with all content that it will be a Schengen crossing, in fact the operator of the activities and they will in the coming period realize with the participation of other institutions, I mean our Ministry of Communication and Transport and Federal, the Public Undertaking for Autoways in the Federation of BiH for Construction, so these 1,100 m highways through, so through the passage of the border crossing. All, to say the preconditions are therefore met, funds are secured by Council of Ministers decisions, agreements with the Republic of Croatia have, I said, been signed earlier and have been ratified in the process. And activities for the very part of the performance of these works have actually been agreed with the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH highway. Anyway, in the end, I'd like to say a few more things. So last week, we had a meeting of representatives of the federal government and state ministries of communication and transport and finance, on the topic of resolving disputed shares on the highway in the south, and it is a job for experts and I am sure, in the way we did it two years ago, when experts analyse all possible elements at the table, that there will be no room for politics and disputed shares, I am sure, will be resolved so that the government of the Federation of BiH and the Parliament of the Federation of BiH, in accordance with its powers, and adopt a new, therefore, new spatial draft, spatial plan of the Federation of BiH. And in this way, the dilemmas relating to the track, unlike the Space Plan 1980 and the new one, would, in fact, be resolved with the help of experts. Here I felt the need to say a few words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u790	I thank Mr. Secretary. There are no other applications for participation in the discussion. I'm closing this debate, so let's move on to a statement on the report. Thank you. According to the report on activities on the project Autoput in Corridor 5c and the plan of the next activities in the first round of the 12 delegates present - 9 delegates were detained, 3 delegates were detained. From Federation - 7 was for, and from RS - 2 were for and 3 were abstentions. There's a general majority and there's an entity majority, so I find out that the Activity Report on the Project Highway on Corridor 5c and the plan for the next activities adopted. Now we move on to a statement on the commission's conclusion. Please allow us to do so. In the first round of these 11 delegates, two delegates were detained. From the Federation of 5 delegates, 1 abstentioned, from the Serbian 4 delegates were and 1 abstentioned. There's a general majority and there's an entity majority, so I find that the commission's conclusion is adopted. 34 We move to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on completed authorisations for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008 V and you have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission has not adopted the Report in the proposed content and form. The Commission adopted the following conclusions and proposes to the House their adoption: 1. The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations undertakes to deliver, within 30 days, a detailed report to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH on the realised permits for the transport of arms and military equipment, dual-use products for 2008 and a report on issued authorisations for the transport of arms, military equipment, dual-use products for 2009. 2. It undertakes the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to deliver a detailed report, respecting the established procedure for reporting on this issue, within 60 days, to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the permits issued for 2010 and the completed permits for 2008 and 2009, and 2010. 3. It undertakes the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to submit, within 30 days, a proposal to amend the Foreign Trade Control Act of strategic importance for the security of BiH, Article 22(1) which would re-introduce the obligation to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on issued and implemented permits every 6 months. 4. The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is obliged to submit, within 30 days, a report on the work of the Inspectorate for the period from 01.01.2006 to 31.12.2009 to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. 5. On the occasion of the discussion of the 2009 Report on realised permits for arms, military equipment and dual-use products, the 2008 report on issued permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products, and taking into account all information available to the public regarding this issue, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to request detailed information on possible illegalities in this area from the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection - SIPA and other agencies, in particular bearing in mind the memos of the OSCE Mission sent to BiH Foreign Ministers since 06/09/2010 and the BiH Presidency of 24.03.2011, as well as a response from the State Agency for Investigation and Protection - SIPA Council of Ministers of BiH. The House of Representatives adopted a report with conclusions from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I give the word to the rapporteur of the Commission at the meeting of the House of Peoples, Mr Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go. (?) 35 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u793	... within three days he can agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u794	That's clear, but do we have to postpone the conclusions or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u795	Well, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u796	You want that, too, okay? Nothing, we interrupt this agenda in this place. Point 10, Ad. Ten. Report on licences issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. The Commission has not adopted the Report in the proposed content and form. The Commission has adopted the following conclusions and proposes to adopt them to the House. 1. The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is obliged to deliver, within 30 days, a detailed report to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH on the realised permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008 and a report on the authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009. 36 2. It undertakes the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to deliver a detailed report on the permits issued for 2010 and the completed permits for 2009 and 2010. 3. It undertakes the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to submit, through the Council of Ministers of BiH within 30 days, a proposal to amend the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act of strategic importance for BiH, Article 22(1) which would re-introduce the obligation to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on issued and implemented permits every 6 months. 4. The BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is obliged to submit, within 30 days, a report on the work of the Inspectorate for the period from 01.01.2006 to 31.12.2009 to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH. 5. On the occasion of the discussion of the 2009 Report on realised permits for arms, military equipment and dual-use products, the 2008 report on issued permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products, and taking into account all information available to the public regarding this issue, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to request detailed information on possible illegalities in this area from the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection - SIPA and other agencies, in particular bearing in mind the memos of the OSCE Mission addressed to the BiH Foreign Minister since 06/09/2010 and the BiH Presidency of 24.03/11, as well as a response from the State Agency for Investigation and Protection - SIPA Council of Ministers of BiH from 13.02.2009. The House of Representatives adopted a report with conclusions from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I give the word to the rapporteur of the Commission at the meeting of the House of Peoples, Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go. You don't want to. Thank you. I'll give word to the Reporter if he wants to. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Thank you. We're voting on the report. In the first round of voting on the report on the issued permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-purpose products for 2009 in the first round of 13 - for there were 9, against three delegates, 1 was abstained. (?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u802	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u803	I'll give the information to the applicant, if he's present and if he wants to. No, I don't. Okay, thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who's answering for a word? I think I've seen the movement of a fellow Košarac player. No, I don't. Excuse me. Okay. Because of this technique, I said I wouldn't want anyone. I'm closing the debate, so we're moving on to a plea. (?) It's a voter error. It's a voter error. Please repeat the vote. Voting on BiH's security situation in 2010 in the renewed first round of voting from 13 delegates -- for 8 delegates, against four delegates, abstained 1 delegate. From the Federation - 8 delegates were for, and from RS - 4 delegates were against, and 1 abstained. There's a general majority, there's no entity. This report must continue to be agreed, first at the College of the People's House, and for which we do not at this time have conditions in terms of working conditions. 39 So we stand at this point of the agenda in this place and move on to point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a Joint Commission to monitor the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the discussion of the BiH Ministry of Security report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the area of the protection of classified data in 2010
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u812	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u813	I apologize to you...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u814	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u815	So we don't even have the conditions to participate in the discussion, do we? M A R I N
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u816	Just a second, they're finishing up now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u817	Well, for the record, we don't have a stenogram. No, no, a stenogram. The session is being recorded. I apologize to you, Mr. Krišto, I thought at least this part of the technical conditions we have for work, which is why I continued the session. Break five minutes. [[PAUZA]] I've been informed by the IT service that we have working conditions. My dear colleague, Borjana Krišto, came forward. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto. I apologize again.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u819	Thank you very much. Here, in order for this expert commission of the DTT Forum to be able to access the task based on these decisions, I, in this commission, in front of the Croatian People's Club, propose to Mr Josip Merdžo. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u820	I'm thanking you. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no applications for participation in the debate. Thank you. We are now moving on to a statement on the proposal of a member of the Forum on Digital and Earth Television of BiH from the House of Peoples. In the first round of voting by 13 delegates -- 13 delegates were for, no one against and no one abstained. From the Federation - 8 for, from Serbia - 5 for, which is the general and entity majority, so I find that we have appointed Mr Josip Merdžo as a member of the Professional Commission of the DTT Forum of BiH from the House of Peoples of BiH. On the agenda of today's session, we still have agreement to ratify agreements, protocols, contracts, memos, amendments to agreements. I propose, and in agreement with the members of the College, that we bring together the debate on the granting of consent for the ratification of agreements, protocols, contracts, memos, amendments to the Agreement from point 18 to point 52, including point 52. For information, we are in this business outside the second home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Niko. Thank you. So we are now pleading on the proposal for a conclusion on the unification of points 18 to 52, including point 52. I call upon you to make a statement. Thank you. Mr. Simić, you voted well. I find that in the first round of voting on the proposed conclusion of the 13 delegates present - 12 were for, none against and 1 delegate abstained. From the Federation - 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, and from RS - 4 for, 1 abstention. There is a general and entity majority, so I find this conclusion adopted. Ad. 15. - 52. Granting consent You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication. The Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to make a decision on granting approval for ratification. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović. You don't want to, thank you. 45 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word, therefore, a united debate? There are no reports. Thank you. I'm closing the debate and now we're moving on to a plea. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the Agreement, Protocol, Contract, Memorandum, Amendment to the Agreements from 18 to 52, including point 52. Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u822	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u823	Do you want to do it again? Yes, you do. Please repeat this statement for a mistake in connection with the statement of honorary colleague Dragutin Rodić, technical error. Thank you. In the re-election of the first round of 13 delegates -- 13 delegates were in favour. From the Federation - 8 and Serbia - 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have given consent to ratification of agreements, protocols, contracts, memorandums and amendments to agreements from point 18 to point 52, including point 52. We've exhausted today's agenda, but I'd like to inform you, please welcome my distinguished colleague Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u824	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u825	Well, I'd love to, so I'd like to wait for Mr. Čović, however, enough with this simple situation. (?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, we can't still count on it if we're not, until he gets here. Do you agree to wait, I think you'll be careful in the towers, maybe you'll find out what the reason is, and it is a valid reason, so that's just for that. Nothing, I'm taking a break from the next, how many Mrs. Krišto?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u827	46 [[no microphone turned on]] [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u828	Make it a 15-minute break and that the commission, and each other, would do the work, and I'll let you know that I wouldn't forget later -- December 21st is a new session. [[PAUZA]] I thank you for your patience. We continue, therefore, this session of the agenda, and this is the first follow-up point 9, this is the 2008 Report on realized permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products. I would like to inform you that Mr Tihić, Mr Čović and I, members of the College, have discussed the goal of reaching a consensus on this issue, and given the result of the vote, there has been no consensus. So for this reason, we are now in a position to declare, first of all, the report in the second round of voting. Please allow me to vote in the second round of the report. (?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u831	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u832	I'm sorry, is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u833	47 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u834	I'm sorry. Please call off the vote. You will allow me, therefore, a warning now to ask you to say that you speak for the Club, because this is by the Rules of Procedure, and you know it. Sign up for it. Mr Borjana Krišto esteemed colleague came forward on behalf of the Croatian People's Delegations Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u835	Thank you very much. I'll do it very briefly. When it comes to conclusions, we will see this in other points related to the defence ministry's competence, i.e. the Joint Defence and Security Committee, at point 5 of this conclusion, in the second sentence, together, and behind the score, so I will read only this part that is in some way controversial and should not be in this form - the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH proposes to the homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to request detailed information on possible illegalities in this area, and then lists, from the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Prosecutors, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA and other agencies, and especially bearing in mind the memos of the OSCE Minister of Foreign Affairs from 06.09.2010. I wanted to say that, indeed, if we are asking, if the proposal is the conclusion that we are asking the competent institutions for information within their jurisdiction. Here we are somehow starting with the assumption that there are already some illegalities, so that the institutions that get this conclusion will really respond to us in accordance with the powers and cannot otherwise. Or that, if we already know that there is, and at this point we don't have that kind of data, let's talk about any knowledge, I don't know about illegalities. But I do suggest that it be for the competent institutions to deliver information on this matter in accordance with their powers and competences. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u836	I certainly appreciate your intervention, Madam Kristo, expressed on behalf of the Croatian delegates' Club. However, without intending to open a discussion, that we have a situation in which things go like this, if we now adopt the text of different conclusions, he would have to go to the Consensus with the House of Representatives, so we would have to appoint from our side and members of the Coordination Commission, and then that is, whether there is one procedure that is in place, therefore in view of your observations, if of course we assume that these institutions would act outside their jurisdiction. For this opportunity, I would suggest that we now assume that they will move within the limits of their competences, which means that they will understand in such a way that V and in your explanation you have made these conclusions, and another proposal would be that our commission, therefore the Joint Defence and Security Commission, next time this conclusion or similar conclusions are technically processed so that they do not need this intervention as you have mentioned. Is that right now something that we can figure out, like some sort of alignment? 48
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u837	Well, here it is, but otherwise I'm not the one that makes the rules, somehow I'd say compromises, and I'm aware of the situation that we're not doing well, that the conclusions are not, but if that's acceptable, here's what I don't know about other fellow envoys, or clubs, we'll give it to them. I personally don't think it's a big deal to reshape the fifth conclusion and agree it with each other with another home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u838	Okay. I have to put it on, so I'm sorry. (?) First the change and then... So now I urge you to make a statement about Mrs. Krišto Borjana's proposal to make amendments in the fifth point of the conclusion, so that they read as follows: 5. On the occasion of the discussion of the 2009 Report on Realised Authorisations for the Transport of Weapons, Military Equipment and dual-use Products for 2008 Reports, the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to request detailed information on possible illegalities in this area, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA and other agencies, and which will deliver, in accordance with its competences, i.e. knowledge of possible illegalities, and in particular bearing in mind the memos of the OSCE Mission addressed to the BiH Foreign Minister of 06/09/2010 and the B and H Presidency of 24.03.2011, and the response of the State Agency for the Investigation of BiH and the Council of 13.02.2012. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u840	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u841	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u842	It's not. You really didn't understand, so I might not be complicated, I'd rather leave. I asked the Joint Defence and Security Committee to request detailed information on this matter, from the Presidency, I do not know the prosecution, the number of institutions, in accordance with their respective competences. So, it means Presidency, for example. The Council of Ministers is not an authority that delivers information about illegality, but the prosecution is, so in that sense I wanted, it means that in accordance with ours, we should throw out the word "unlawful". So we're already saying they exist. And if 49 exist then the institutions that are listed here, whose business it is, will provide us with information about illegalities, and those who are not, will provide the information they possess in accordance with their respective competences.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u843	Can I ask you a question now - who can now look for that information, homes or the Joint Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u844	Well, the proposal is home...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u845	It means that the homes are still looking, not the Joint Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u846	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u847	Well, then we got along. So, good. Here, you heard the text that Mrs. Krišto mentioned and I'm putting it to the vote. Here you go. (?) [[no microphone turned on]] About what Mrs. Krišto suggested. Of the 12 delegates present, 1 delegate was abstentioned. From the Federation - 6 was for, 1 abstention, from the RS - 5 delegates were for. There is a general and entity majority and I find that Mrs. Krišto proposal adopted. You see, when we understand you, we trust you. Okay. Now we're going to vote on the whole, so the text of the proposed conclusions. (?) The conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u850	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2011-12-01-0.u851	Say it again. It's okay now. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present - there were 12 delegates. From the Federation - 7, from Serbia - 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Commission's conclusions have been adopted. We now move to point 12 in the part of the statement on the BiH Security Information in 2010. I would also like to inform you that there is no agreement in the College on how to declare this item on the agenda, so I would like the technical service to initiate our vote. Thank you. Regarding the Security of BiH in 2010, in the second round of voting, of the 12 delegates present - 7 delegates were in favour, against four delegates and held 1 delegate. From the Federation - 6 delegates for, 1 abstention, from Serbia - 1 delegate for, 4 against. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, so I find that the Security status information in B and H was not received in 2010. We move to point 13 where we left off, and it concerns the proposal for the Joint Commission's conclusion on the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency to discuss the BiH Ministry of Security report on operational and technical surveillance carried out in the area of the protection of classified data in 2010. 51 I also inform you that there is no consensus within the College on how to decide on this item of the agenda, which means that we must move to the second round of voting, so I call on the technical service to enable us to do so. Thank you. Under this item of the agenda, the Joint Commission's proposal to oversee the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the review of the BiH Ministry's report on operational and technical surveillance carried out, in a second round of 12 delegates -- 6 delegates were in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. From the Federation - 6 for, 1 abstention, from Serbia - 4 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority, so I must conclude that the conclusion has not been adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted today's session, the contents of today's session, so thank you for your work. I'll see you on December 21st at 11:00. Session completed at 14:40 p.m.
