ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6956	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 13th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly monitor the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence from today's session was justified by MPs Zvonko Jurišić and Zlatko Lagumdžija. According to the information service, 33 MPs are present, according to the display. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes and additions to the agenda, or changes to the agenda, I would like to introduce you that we have downloaded item 9. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, legislators Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić (first reading). At the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, which did not hold a session due to the lack of quorum, and requested an extension of the deadline for the submission of Opinion on the Proposal for the Law, the House College set 21.11.2011 as the deadline. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Since there are no reports, I am closing the debate on the agenda and conclude that the 13th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 12th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Issues (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues. 3. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal, Law No 01,02-02-9-6510, of 2.12.2010. (second reading) (a) Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on Amendment XI. MP Dušanka Majkić, b) Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on Amendment XIII. MP Dušanka Majkić, c) Report from the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on Amendment XIV. MP Dušanka Majkić, 2 d) Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on Amendment XV. MP Dušanka Majkić; 4. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road transport, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-3-4410 of 16.6.2010, with the Commission Report on Transport and Communications; 5. The Commission's report on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on a state aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1711, of 8.9.2011. (law in first reading); 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-1811, of 8.9.2011. (first reading) – Delayed statement at the 12th session of the House, held on 27.10.2011; 7. Proposal for a framework law on the establishment of a joint register of NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2211, since 27.9.2011. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2311, of 13.10.2011. (first reading); 9. Decision on the participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Group in the International Security Assistance Force operation of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, the BiH presidency's number 01,02-03-107711, of 18.10.2011; 10. Report on activities on the project "Autoput at Corridor 5c" and the plan of future activities, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-29-86011, of 29.7.2011. (a) Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for conclusions 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Commission Opinion on Transport and Communications for the discussion of the Report on activities on the "Autoput to Corridor 5c" project and the plan of the next activities; 11. Report on realised permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, No 01,02-03-98510, of 4.8.2010; 12. Report on authorisations issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, No 01,02-03-98510, of 4.8.2010; 13. Information on the resolution of surplus weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets of the Armed Forces of BiH, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, No. 031-03-437-310, of 3.8.2010; 14. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2010, the Council of Ministers' material, number 01,02-04-48511, of 3.6.2011, 15. Granting approval for ratification Supplement 1 to the Financial Agreement implementing the national programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the IPA programme – transition assistance and institution strengthening component for 2007; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Croatia under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2007; 17. Providing consent for ratification of Appendix No. 1 The financing agreement relating to the national programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – II part of IPA's transition support programme and institution building for 2008; 3 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Loan Agreement based on the aid of the Netherlands between the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands for the financing of Project No KGS10BA31; 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the temporary employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia with the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on a visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic and official passports; 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports; 23. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty of Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Iran; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on a favourable loan between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Erste Bank Der Öesterreichischen Sparkassen AG for the project "Procuring Medical Equipment for General Hospital in Nevesinje". Moving to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes of the 12th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6960	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I have received two answers to two parliamentary questions and thank the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Council of Ministers for the answers delivered. I am pleased with the answers, but I was not satisfied with the situation even before asking questions, and I am not particularly satisfied with the situation in these two areas after the answers have been received. I would remind myself that I asked: Who in BiH is responsible for why BiH citizens pay the most expensive medicines in the region? The second question was: Who in BiH is responsible for the fact that BiH citizens pay the most expensive textbooks? The answers were clear to me, even before these parliamentary questions were asked. There are many institutions dealing with these issues and the issue of drug trafficking and medical resources. There are many institutions dealing with the issue of education in BiH, but what is significant, as in many other areas, is no one responsible for the state of these facts. So I would like to get information that my knowledge that BiH citizens are paying for the most expensive medicines in the region is not correct. Or that I have received the answer that my knowledge that BiH citizens are paying for the most expensive textbooks is also not correct. Unfortunately, I didn't get a negative answer to that. I conclude that my knowledge is correct. It is likely that no one is responsible for the citizens, at least that part of BiH citizens supplying gas through the pipelines in BiH, which these days will start paying 35% of the price of gas, etc., etc. The fact is that we live in a society where, unfortunately, despite the existence of a number of institutions, few are responsible for the situation in concrete areas, and I, based on these answers, am giving a suggestion to the Council of Ministers that through our co-ordination role in these two areas, at least in terms of health and education, try to find adequate solutions and suggest to the competent authorities in these two areas that even if we have a more rational health care system in which at least a little more satisfactory medical workers will be satisfied, in which they will at least be more satisfied users of their services and also that we have at least a more rational system of education in which at least a little more satisfying and educational workers will not have to pay the most expensive teachers in the region. Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6961	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6962	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on August 25th, I asked the BiH Council of Ministers about the funds that BiH received by selling part of Kasarna, here in Sarajevo, for the purposes of the US government, the construction of the US Embassy in BiH. About 7,000,000 marks are still in account, or dollars, and have not been transferred to the University of Sarajevo. I asked what the Council of Ministers was doing to get this job done, then I got the answer that they asked Parliament what to do. I was here in Parliament at the time, Parliament debated on one and the other home and again, it seems to me, in charge of the Council of Ministers, and we never got an answer from the Council of Ministers, and we found ourselves in the worst possible situation. The Council of Ministers transfers it to Parliament, and then argues that Parliament is transferring the Council of Ministers. I'm not satisfied with this answer, I think you're avoiding giving a fundamental answer here. And I ask the College to investigate this situation through the Secretariat, exactly when what happened and where things were standing, to open a debate here in Parliament, if necessary. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6963	The word has Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6964	Mr. Chairman, I have referred a set of questions to the Minister of Transport and Communications concerning the air control of the Bosnian-Herzegovina sky. Since I am not ready to answer now, I will comment at the next session, including several initiatives by the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6965	The word has Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6966	Mr. Chairman, I have received an answer to the question concerning how much BiH is paying interest on non-engaged loans in the previous period and I thank the Council of Ministers for delivering the response. But I would like to express my concern on the interest paid in 2010 and 2011. So that trend in 2010 was 3,875,000 KM, and for the first eight months of this year, 2,125,000. I believe that these are very important funds if you see the structure on which BiH's undrawn loans are paid by interest, so this is about Corridor 5c, it's about the Infraput network, about the gasification and the railways. I believe that conditions must be created when credits are applied that projects must be delivered in time and all assumptions must be made so that these loans are withdrawn in time so that the funds are not paid. With these more than 5,000 for last year and the first eight months of this year, BiH could significantly invest in much more priority things, if we talk about a return to refugee and displaced persons, if we are talking about building school facilities and other funds that could have been applied at all levels in BiH, from local communities to cantons and entities. I think this is a six-state state of concern and the Council of Ministers has to take account in the coming period. This trend does not therefore decrease in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6967	The comment on the answer received is Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6968	So my question was about the working bodies of the Food Safety Agency. And indeed what stands here is so, but the message is indeed for a good analysis of this House. So the information says that the Food Safety Agency should have eight scientific committees with 40 members, a Scientific Council of 14 members and a Management Board of 15 members, all of which gives 69 members of the Food Safety Agency. It is a truly incredible number, and I think the Council of Ministers would have to see what it is and how the most rational is organised by the Agency, a team before the completion of the constitution was only the Management Board of 15 members, whose work was spent around 73,000 marks. So when 69 working bodies, 69 individuals are built up and started working, it will be an impressive amount to what it will cost BiH. I think it's a message to the Council of Ministers, the answer is what it is, but surely the Council of Ministers needs to do something to rationalise this number of working bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6969	The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6970	Thank you, Chairman. I received answers today to two sets of questions asked at previous sessions. I'd like to look back on them. And namely, the first question I got the answer to is the opening of higher education institutions in the Brcko District. According to information sent to me by the Ministry of Brcko, it was sent and accepted in the Brcko District Assembly of 10 elaborates of justification for the establishment of higher education institutions, of which four, so two universities and two higher schools are in the preparation phase for licensing. The Brcko District has, according to my knowledge, about 500 graduates, or high school graduates, indicatively every year. In this country, i.e. in Brcko District, as part of the state, it is suddenly established and the Assembly accepts 10 elaborates on the establishment, first two universities, two higher schools, and later the remaining six, I guess, whatever that is. I wonder, as someone in that area, if there are any resources, any conditions at all, and who is it, and what is this Assembly that rated that all 10 elaborates meet the conditions? No one in this country seems to respect the same criteria for all in BiH, so criteria adopted by the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. Secondly, a second set of questions that I have asked, which concerns the adoption, that is, the preparation of missing laws also in the area of higher education, I have received the answer that it is in fact awaiting the formation of a Council of Ministers who will then start to do something about this legislation again. In fact, the 7 international community is helping BiH in the matter of higher education through the CARDS project in 2005 and through the IPA project in 2007 created all the necessary bases for the creation of the laws needed by this country. I also sought and launched the initiative on two occasions to launch a public debate, hold a public debate here on higher education and higher education problems. If what I've got in itself doesn't trigger a public debate to see where we are in BiH when it comes to higher education and where we're even going as a state
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6971	Time! NERMINA
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6972	And if our paper is going anywhere, then I don't know which institution and who should worry about it. Here I am once again launching an initiative for a public debate on higher education.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6973	Petar Kunić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6974	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked a question about passing an expert exam in BiH, where I have pointed out the fact that the programmes are not even, so every civil servant can work on any part of BiH, and in that sense, it is a side effect, of course, that the programme is even. I got an answer to that question. I didn't really get it in part, but thanks for the answer. What's the big deal here? I would ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers to deal with the issue. Namely, the Ministry of Administration, the local administration, is not able to justify whether it is called justice to organise expert exams. So it's a direct political interference in management. Professional examinations can only be organised by an independent body, it is the Agency for the State's Service. That's exactly what it's been established for, so they're doing education and they're organizing professional exams. At the level of BiH institutions, we also have the Ministry of Justice to organise it and it is organised by the State Service Agency. I think that this should be separated and that it should simply be predicted that no ministry can organise expert exams because the Agency is an independent body within the Council of Ministers, so it is directly responsible to the Council of Ministers for depolitisation of the administration. Now I've got one material where they've been formed, to my colleague Amir Fazlić's answer, so it's about that, and I want to say something. They've formed bodies to reform the administration. Of course, when you look at the quality of the people who are here, you don't exactly guarantee some reform here. For the reform of the administration, at least in the eastern part of the countries of transition, the heads of the administration's reform are the government's presidents, i.e. our chairman of the Council of Ministers. So there should have been a higher dose of seriousness in the appointment of these bodies, a higher dose of seriousness. I don't think it's enough. I don't think we understand the importance of the administration yet. The administration covers two-thirds of the legal system. Management is everything and you will see when we get our EU accounts, when we get close, what all the demands will be in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6975	Time! 8
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6976	And it seems to me we're far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6977	Mirsad Đugum has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6978	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, in the last session I was not at, I received an answer to the asked question and I thank the Federal Minister of Finance and the Federal Minister of Health. But I must show dissatisfaction with the response where the government of the Federation of BiH is not absolutely able to present to us the number of medically unsecured persons in the Federation. The Minister of Health replied that we have three hundred and sixty thousand unsecured persons, but the Government of the Federation, or the finance minister, did not provide data on how many people we have on hold or persons who are not being paid health insurance. If we take both data and other data, then it must be over five hundred thousand people with health insurance in BiH and I think it's an alarming condition. So I'm asking the question now, but to the Government, not only the Minister of Finance, but to the Government of the Federation and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to provide us with an answer to how many healthless persons we have, in principle, unemployed, persons on hold or persons not being paid for by health insurance. I mean, with this data and this House of Representatives needs to be entertained and the Council of Ministers to find any possibility, because, by rough estimates, there are about eight hundred thousand medically unsecured people, and we see what the standard is, we see the situation and that every day citizens are getting hit more and more in all sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6979	My colleague Đugum was the last to comment on the answers received. So he probably took that opportunity to ask then a new parliamentary question, so we're opening this second part of this agenda point, these are b) The new parliamentary questions First for the new parliamentary questions were signed up by MP Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6980	Thank you, Chairman. I have two questions today. The first question is addressed to the Council of Ministers: 9 'Who is obstructing the implementation of the Kasindol Hospital Reconstruction Project in East Sarajevo and the implementation of the co-operation programme with Greece through the HiPERB projects and why the conclusions of the Council of Ministers relating to the implementation of this project are not realised, when it is known that there are available funds of 2,919,000, including the government of the RS since 1.11.2000? Who bear the cost of funding employees in the so-called so-called HYPERB Coordinator's Office in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Building? Because according to the 2009 Budget Implementation Report, we have spent 257,000, for 2010, 284,000, and for the first six months of this year 255,000. The report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions for 2010 states that there was no available funding from Greece, and the funding of the National Co-ordinator's Office under the 2002-2006 Development Co-operation Agreement is made from donation funds paid by Greece." I'm looking for answers to questions. I have information that this Coordinator's Office is for the capture of pensioners, party activists and advisers at the expense of the BiH institutions' budget. If this practice continues, the funds will be spent on salaries, fees and other unnecessary expenditure, and from the realization of this project there will be nothing. The second question is: 'I demand that I be provided with information on how much it pays to rent accommodation for BiH's joint institutions. What are the institutions or parts of these institutions located outside the Parliamentary Assembly building and the Council of Ministers? How is it determined where the accommodation space for agencies or other BiH institutions will be rented? Is there a public call or a competition for renting space or is it pre-renowned rooms for an institution's accommodation? Are there criteria for renting space (square, location and price)? Do all departments of the BiH Council of Ministers, which are not located in the building next to the Parliamentary Assembly, have to be in the centre of Sarajevo or can they settle somewhere else where the rental prices are significantly lower? I ask that a review be made of the use of space in the parliamentary assembly buildings, the Council of Ministers, the BiH presidency. Is there an unused space? What about the residence facility of the BiH presidency "Finally"? At what price is part of the facility subject to the use of Ejup Ganić's university?' All these questions are being asked by the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, and by agencies that do not have their own space, but are renting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6981	It was all in two questions, wasn't it? Beriz Belkić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6982	First question: "Can the other, or all parliamentary parties, use halls in this building as did and used SDP on 29.10 this year under the conditions set out in the Instructions on how to use the hall in the Parliamentary Assembly building?" It is well known to me that the decision to use a large hall is made by two presidencies, that decisions on the use of this hall and the Blue Hall are made by the chairman of homes that use these halls, and 10 are extremely approved for use by other organisations, institutions, etc. So far, it has not been a practice for political organisations to use these halls. And I'm just asking if this applies to all the parliamentary parties sitting here? Because watch out, organization of large gatherings, etc., which parties have a need to work, cost a lot. Did you want something, Mr. Magazinović?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6983	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6984	Don't interrupt me, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6985	Mr. Belkić,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6986	Please don't interrupt me, I'm talking, you haven't answered your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6987	Mr. Belkić, you have your word and go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6988	So, one question is over. The second question: 'Is it realising', the question is for the chairman of both homes, 'is the anti-drug program realising and is a team being formed to create a rulebook on drug destruction?' Explanation: media have claimed that this programme is not being implemented and that no Regulation on the drug destruction procedure has been made, which is why larger quantities of drugs are located in the premises of internal affairs, ministries, agencies, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6989	Before we move on to the next MP who has parliamentary questions, I just want to draw attention to the fact that, according to our rules of procedure, we within one home cannot ask ourselves questions. So, you're considering that business provision.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6990	I had it in mind, that's why I set it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6991	Eh, good. The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6992	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I received a letter from the Association of Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia on 3.11.2011, "Ugor" Jelah-Jelah-Tešanj, which reminds me of the activities this Parliament has had when the problem of fired workers from the Republic of Croatia is at stake. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the 53rd session of 13 May 2009 supported the plan of measures to be taken to address the problems of BiH citizens who lost their jobs in the Republic of Croatia in the period '91-'95. the year, which also adopted the Council of Ministers at the 78th session of 26.2.2009. The Council of Ministers is obliged to report to the House of Representatives on the implementation of the envisaged measures. According to this letter, the plan is largely not implemented, and according to the credible findings of the Association, the Directorate for Consular Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Croatia, by act of 27.5.2010, the Embassy of BiH in Zagreb informed that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia do not feel the need to discuss the problem of workers who have lost their jobs in the period of '91-'95. A year. This was not the attitude of the Republic of Croatia by the BiH institutions. The conclusion of the House of Representatives of 30 December 2010 and the Council of Ministers' Decision of 26.9.2010 was respected in the section relating to the approval of the funds of 100,000 marks transferred to the accounts of the Association. The Council of Ministers' decision is quite clear...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6993	kolega Magazinović, indeed, I would ask you to take your position.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6994	Therefore, the Association has made the Council of Ministers' decision quite clear about the purpose of the grant of assistance in court disputes, but in good intention to clarify that the Association was not clear enough, the way in which the appropriations from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were used and justified. The association requested specific additional instructions. According to this letter, unfortunately, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are simply disputed who should act on their request, so the Association has a kind of money-block that has been allocated to work on this problem. This is why he prays that here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and I am doing so on this occasion, a report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who lost their jobs in the Republic of Croatia from 1991 to 1995. And I ask the Council of Ministers to submit this report to discuss it here at Parliament once more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6995	The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6996	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, I have one question for you. I refer it to the Council of Ministers of BiH, which reads: 12 'How long has the Council of Ministers been convened in the previous time and in which institution has retired officials or deputies and returned to the same jobs or advisory positions?' In fact, there are indications that some institutions are retired by law enforcement, after which they are engaged under a contract to work on the same jobs, while there are numerous staffs of the same profiles on the employment bureaus. They even set themselves up in advisory positions, where their incomes are increasing. Therefore, an analysis of this type seems necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6997	The word has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6998	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the Council of Ministers, and it is related to the export of products of animal and plant origin to the EU. 'The fact that the most important foreign trade partner with BiH is the Republic of Croatia, which participates with 15% of the total trade in goods with BiH. On agricultural products, BiH exports to the Republic of Croatia account for 28% of total exports of agricultural products. And the fact is that over the past three years, we have even had a total deficit of one billion and 351,31 million KM, realizing that the Council of Ministers at its 131st session, held on 26.8.2010, adopted the Roadmap with the aim of creating conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin, above all to the EU, and we understand that the Republic of Croatia... will enter the EU and EU regulations will start to apply from 1.1.2013, so within a little over a year. And we can... what that will mean now, for our current agriculture, undeveloped as it is, and especially the largest item in that is the current 40 million liters of milk at the annual level that is exported to the EU and will be compromised if the Roadmap is not adopted. My question to the Council of Ministers also reads: "Will BiH meet the conditions for exports to the EU of products of animal and plant origin, i.e. by 1.1.2013, when Croatia begins to apply EU directives?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u6999	The word is Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7000	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so I thought I'd launch this as a parliamentary initiative, but here it can go as parliamentary questions, since we have a point 14. Security report for 2010. So, the first question goes to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice, and I started it in 2008 or 2009, and I'm not quite sure, and it's like this: 'The House of Representatives is in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer to parliamentary procedures for amending and supplementing BiH Criminal Law, which provides for maximum penalties for acts of terrorism, arms trafficking, trafficking in white slavery and narcotics, of course, and all of these monsters that are most dangerous to the security of all countries, not BiH.' 13 So then I received support at the House of Representatives, but nothing seems to me to be done on that. If it is not possible to prescribe laws from European countries where this area is well arranged, so if we want to prescribe it from the United States where the punishment is scheduled, let's say, for one of these crimes 500 years in prison. That's why we're a little close to America. ... A second parliamentary question: "It is up to the BiH Ministry of Security to immediately begin the processes and procedures of eviction of all persons who are not in a regular and usual manner to gain BiH citizenship from BiH territory. Also, I propose to this House to hold a debate on the final results of the list of naturalised citizens of BiH and the results of the Commission's work on the revision of these citizenships. It's been known that there was a lot of traffic in that commission, that the manager also had some procedures, some problems, but not to go into those details. So, let's get that report here to the House of Representatives and get this story over with." ... The third question is: 'That the House of Representatives owes the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to launch all legal and other mechanisms to establish complete control and unlimited access to all persons in Maoca and in this area. So, 24 hours a day as it is on all other parts of BiH. So it doesn't have to be exterior territory, so I can read in the paper that a cop can't go in there after seven hours. I'm not going to suggest modality to do that, but let these three institutions find the possibility, and even the displaced of those persons, there are not five thousand, there are fifteen, twelve more members or families of those. Let it be cleared up and let that area no longer be placed in a separate reserve where no one has any insight. This country has all the mechanisms to clear that up there and deal with these problems. So when there's a point on the Safety Report, I'm going to suggest some conclusions and we'll see their fate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7001	Okay. Please just keep in mind when you say you have a parliamentary question, then don't say we're in charge of these or those. So, if the parliamentary question is to be a question, if the initiative clearly indicates that it is... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let's move on. The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7003	Thank you, Chairman. I have two parliamentary questions. The first is addressed to the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, which reads: "Why is it that the deadline for first accreditation is not respected, and what are the Agency’s failures in this regard, the missing of competent educational authorities and the missing of higher education institutions?" The second question I refer to the Council of Ministers, which reads: 14 'Will the state authorities recognise the higher education diplomas that were acquired after 15 August of this year, or how Article 54 is planned to be executed. Framework law on higher education in BiH?" Here is a brief explanation: The Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on Higher Education adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly has specified that the first accreditation of higher education institutions in BiH will take place within four years of the date of entry into force of the Framework Law on Higher Education, i.e. by 15 August 2011. We have no information that any higher education facility in BiH has been accredited to this day. In Article 54. The framework law says: "The competent state authorities and other BiH authorities and organisations will recognise only those academic degrees and diplomas issued by accredited higher education institutions for employment or public functions." Since there are now no accredited higher education institutions in our country, this means that no state body or other BiH bodies or organisations can hire or give public office to anyone with a higher education degree acquired after August 15th this year, as by that date all higher education institutions had temporary accreditation defined by Framework Law, in particular Article 61. To mention that both the Framework Law and standards and quality assurance guidelines in higher education in BiH have been adopted at the Council of Ministers and published in the Official Journal, issue: 13 from 2008 in the process of accreditation of the precise competences of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance, the Ministry of Education RS, ten cantons and Brcko District and higher education institutions. And in that sense these two parliamentary questions were also asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7004	The word is Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7005	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it reads: "Is the Council of Ministers in the plan and if there is any time to propose amendments and amendments to the Law on Salaries and Compensations in BiH institutions that would ensure that all police officers employed in the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate have the same rights, in particular the right to compensation, as well as police officers at the Agency for Investigations and Protection and the Border Police?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7006	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7007	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, very often in the media, it is heard that the problem of climate in BiH is very present at certain locations, and it creates a bit of concern among citizens, especially with members of the Ministry of Defence who are staying for a long period of time in facilities that are thought to have an increased concentration of poor uranium. My question is the Ministry of Defence: 15 'Is it possible to measure radioactivity in barracks where members of the Ministry of Defence are staying, if it is, are the parameters within the limits allowed, and if they are greater than what the Ministry will take to protect the health of people in those locations?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7008	Thank you. : The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7009	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I have one parliamentary question which I refer to the government of the Federation of BiH: 'What stage is the implementation of the Law on the Principles of Local Self-Government in the Federation of BiH, is it implemented, and when full transfer of rights and obligations to units of local self-government, especially in the field of education and health care? What is the state of implementation of this law in the cantons of the Federation of BiH, with special reference to the UN-San canton?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7010	The word has Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7011	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. My question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications. Several years ago, the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH concluded an agreement with the foreign ministry for European integration of the Republic of France on the recognition and replacement of driving licences. Under the agreement, "B" driving licence holders of categories issued by the competent authorities of the Republic of France and BiH may replace them for other country's driving licences without passing the theoretical and practical part of the exams. The conditions of replacement have been defined by the country's internal regulations. Such an agreement certainly facilitated the process of including bh. the diaspora in the system of transport and communication in the labour market of the Republic of France, without additional financial expenditure. It is likely that the issue of interstate recognition or conversion of driving licences is of interest and for bh. The diaspora that resides in countries around the world. I'm asked by bh. Diaspora in Italy to ask the Ministry of Transport and Communications the following questions: 'With which countries besides the Republic of France does BiH have a signed agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences? In which phase of negotiations on interstate recognitions and replacement of driving licences without passing the theoretical and practical part of the exams issued by the competent authorities of Italy and BiH and when bh. The diaspora can expect this interstate agreement to be signed in Italy too?' I'm asking to be answered in writing. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7012	The word has Dušanka Majkić. It's gone, so we're moving on to the next one. The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7013	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I have an initiative to direct to the BiH Council of Ministers. In fact, the initiative consists of this and I am talking to the Council of Ministers to try to create preconditions for the opening of a new project at BiH level, which is Stand for Life. In fact, you know perfectly well that BiH is currently the country with the highest mortality of coronary disease: with an acute myocardial infarction in BiH dies over 25%, in neighbouring countries, the mortality has been reduced to almost 12%. Given that there is, I would say, a good will and a desire to solve this problem at entity level, and that this is a universal problem where ethnic backgrounds play no role at all but speed and efficiency, I propose one initiative to the Council of Ministers to open additional possibilities for the launch of this procedure. Unfortunately, there has been no good will so far. As President of the Finance and Budget Commission, I have had the opportunity to see very irrational spending on certain things that are absolutely not important for life, large spending of funds and for oil, for vehicles, for rented spaces, so I am sure, if there is a minimum will, that this project could be revived and that we, finally, also to the citizens of BiH, respecting all relevant centres in both entities, or at the level of the state, let us know that we also care about the health of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7014	The word has Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7015	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, fellow MPs, guests, I welcome you all. I have two initiatives and one question. The first initiative... for the competent privatisation agencies: that for all companies that have been sold by the government of the Federation of BiH, the RS, as well as the cantonal governments, which do not meet the contractual obligations of payment of contributions, taxes, personal income, as well as investments to which customers have agreed, immediately initiates a procedure for the termination of the contract before the competent courts. And that, therefore, the courts take such cases into consideration by emergency procedure, it is within 30 days to prevent further crime and the destruction of them. Another initiative: given the sensitive improvement of the situation in the work of the Federation of BiH Railways, both in terms of the overall volume of transport and business, it is proposed that the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Federation of BiH provide as soon as possible the necessary means for a thorough revitalisation of rail infrastructure, upper and lower machinery, facilities, signalling, as well as a certain part of the suprastructure, i.e. freight wagons. The parliamentary initiative shall be referred to for reasons that it is impossible to finance from current revenues the restoration and maintenance of the infrastructure of this system which is the only one who is required as a carrier to transport all types of goods for the needs of the users. 17 And one parliamentary question, given that in BiH's premises, the highest authorities violate the fundamental human rights and freedoms of the UN General Declaration, as well as the Charter of the EU, and the Declaration of Elimination of all forms of intolerance and discrimination on the basis of religion or convictions of respect, above all, for women wearing a traditional scarf, with full discrimination and inequality in employment in the Bosnian Herzegovina judiciary. In accordance with Article 17. The law on freedom of faith in BiH, I ask the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which is responsible for resolving these issues and which has the right and obligation to all state, entity, cantonal and municipal authorities to point to cases of violations of the right to freedom of religion and customs, and to require the law of the prescribed measures... which prevent such violations. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7016	Beriz Belkić signed up, but he's not in the O.R. Drago Kalabić has applied for a new MP but is not in the hall, Saša Magazinović has a word. ... The word has Dušanka Majkić. [[Disable microphone]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7017	I have one parliamentary question and one initiative. The first is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications: 'So, the Ministry of Transport and Communication concluded the contract on the provision of technical assistance services and the acquisition of Microsoft license under the Microsoft Framework Agreement. The Framework Agreement for the acquisition of these licences for the purposes of the Council of Ministers was concluded with the consortium – which consisted of “Lanaco” d.o.o. Banja Luka, “Logosoft” Sarajevo and Teamwork d.o.o. Mostar – 24.6.2010 for a three-year period. The Framework Agreement lays down the conditions for the acquisition of Microsoft licenses using the ESA contract, which defined that in the next three years, the payment of fees for the use of licences after which licences can be bought, can be signed and another subscription contract or may be terminated. The value of the license purchase after three years of subscription has not been defined so the practical value of the licenses obtained is virtually unknown and the actual value of the licence. The public procurement procedure was implemented through the ESA agreement through the international open procedure. On the basis of the 24.6 Framework Agreement, the Ministry concluded and opened a special purpose programme of 4.19,975 marks for only one year. The funds for this programme are provided in the following way: 290,160 from current reserve funds, 1,928,000 from accumulated surplus revenue over expenditure in 2009 Regulatory Agency for Communications and 1,921,814 from accumulated surplus income over expenditure in 2010. The audit carried out by the BiH Institutions' Audit Office found that the purchase of the service... of support of 290,000 as well as the purchase of 9,155 licences worth 3,849,815 was carried out. It is evident that the Ministry has decided on licences through an ESA contract that only makes a subscription for the next three years, instead of obtaining them through an OLP contract that comes into permanent ownership of licences. Since this procurement is accompanied by a large number of irregularities and non-compliance with the procedures, I ask myself to answer the following questions: '1.Why did the Ministry conclude that contract without previously incorporated objections and suggestions from the BiH Attorney General? Why did the Ministry conclude the contract without the final opinion of the pravobranilaštvo? 2. I'm asking the Ministry to deliver the exact 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7018	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7019	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7020	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7021	Here I go. '2nd. I'm asking him to provide precise information on what makes the price structure of this financial arrangement. Is it true that the total sum of the price of the subscription and the purchase of the licence is 18 million in three years, and are the true claims that the Ministry has knowingly acquired a much higher number of licences than is necessary and does this mean that BiH institutions are purchasing double licences?" It's one and only one more short of this parliamentary initiative. 'As I have received a response from the Ministry of Security that the DNA Labaratori will not be returned to this Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts, I ask the Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for examining further justification for the existence of the Agency.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7022	I also have two parliamentary questions that I deliver in writing. We're done with the second agenda. Now we move to the third item of the agenda. However, given that we do not have the necessary quorum to work at the moment, I am giving a 15-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get on with our work. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Add.3. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7030	Thank you very much. So here we have today a very small law, which has only eight members, but which regulates one significant matter that we have not yet had regulated. So I think that these initiatives have been launched before and that the Ministry of Justice has approximately made this proposal, because there have been some earlier conclusions of the House of Representatives that have contributed to the need to make order in this field of NGOs. So, I think that all three objectives of this framework law and an efficient system of access to information about NGOs are justified, because we know today that we do not know what is happening in the country when it comes to the 21st issue of the NGO, that we do not have an efficient system that would allow the competent information needed to conduct an investigation into NGOs suspected of dealing with terrorism, money laundering and other forms of crime and thus provide mechanisms that would enable NGOs to be linked to terrorism, money laundering and other forms of crime. So all three objectives that are here by the promoters are clearly set and they talk about a new quality that would be introduced. And as far as things are concerned, the organization of the collective common register here is really set up what is the very essence. But I have an objection to, say, Article 6 which says that of the information available to the public, it's written, I don't know, seats, addresses, registration, termination of work and everything else, but one important and important thing that should be content is the objectives of the activity of the NGO. So it's very important that we know that the public knows and that at all times you can go on the site and determine what a particular NGO is doing. And secondly, what is controversial about keeping a summary register, this position which states that... in Article 5, in the event that two or more NGOs registered with several competent registrants, under the same name, the competent registrant, where a later registered non-governmental organisation will, by official duty, adopt a decision requiring that within 30 days of the date of receipt of the decision, submit a request for a change of name; this is clear and justified to me. But I do not understand this point b) that unless it submits a request within the time limit set out in point (a) of this position, it will be deleted from the register of the competent registration authority. I think it is not easy to implement, because we know that there are, that the law on the NGO sector exists at BiH level, but entities, even at canton level, and that it is simply not easy to implement. But surely the mechanism needs to be found, what if the NGO deafens the problem of notifying the competent authority, or registration, that it has completed this job that belongs to the law. I have a few more questions about the law itself. The question is, and I would ask the minister to answer that. Do you think it is necessary to amend the existing laws on NGOs in the sense of adding one member to the summary record, do you prescribe that these lower levels are required to supply all registration data? Do you think an amendment should be made, meaning a supplement or a supplement, to add that member? And another question: Can other registration authorities make electronic communication with the BiH summary register? Because, then, can anyone who wants to conduct or check something that is related to a particular NGO by electronic means enter the register, carry out a check and make that contact, in order to have the information in time and the one he needs? Here, these are two questions that I think these few things should fix with amendments, and in any case I think the law should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7031	Belkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7032	We also support the adoption of such a law, although his name is quite confusing. It's about a summary common register. Something's too big for me. It could be just a summary register or a unique register, etc. But here's some practice, including the very name of the law frame, etc. I've looked closely, you've probably seen reactions from some NGOs that warn that the non-governmental 22 sector is being brought to a worse position than companies, from the point of view of procedures, lists, records and warn about the costs that law enforcement will produce. In that direction, I think it might be wise to consider that all the actions that this law produces, or which it obliges the non-governmental sector to do, might consider not paying compensation for these re-registrations, or delivery of data, for the simple reason that they did it once, and now the state needs to do it again. Maybe think about it a little bit. And I have one question, actually I couldn't, probably maybe I didn't get the concept right. I considered it only as an opportunity to establish and to allow the availability of information in one place, transparently, clearly, quickly, etc. I couldn't find out that this law establishes mechanisms to curb the activities of NGOs that can be linked to terrorism. I don't see such mechanisms in this law. I only see this law as creating an assumption that in a transparent, simple way, data about an NGO, that it is registered, which it deals with etc. I don't see those mechanisms. And generally, all these initiatives and possible amendments, etc. We should not question the freedom and work of the NGO sector, because the majority of the NGO sector is well-intentioned and in some ways it forms part of our civil society. So that's where we have to be very careful. Of course, this does not apply to those proven and possibly already proven to be in any way associated with terrorism. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7033	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7034	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, without the vote 'against', the Constitutional Commission, although with two abstentions, identified the existence of a constitutional basis by the majority of the four votes and supported the principles of this law. I think we need one such law... which aims to establish a more efficient system of access to information on all NGOs operating in BiH, registered by the authorities in BiH territory. Then, that we need this more efficient system to create a more efficient system that would allow competent authorities to have the necessary information to conduct investigations into NGOs suspected of financing or assisting terrorism, money laundering, or other forms of organised crime and to provide mechanisms to help combat the activities of NGOs that can be linked to terrorism, money laundering or other forms of organised crime. These are the objectives of this framework law. Article 2 of the Law establishes mechanisms to achieve these objectives. So, I support him, but here I am also being represented by several of these warnings from NGOs, on the basis of what Mr Belkić was talking about. I think that's what some of the other colleagues got. I would ask – I mean, it is, in my opinion, a very important law – the minister of justice to take part after these discussions, and then explain all these things that we talked about. I will support this law in both the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7035	The word has Slavko Jovićić. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, I will give only one eclectic example that at least a register should be put in place, that we know how many of these NGOs exist and who is in... which area and in which time registered. I'm saying, I'm going to say one example: when we were working at the grant committee, we couldn't figure out where 275 NGOs still registered in BiH at various addresses and institutions, which here of course made some good things, invested on the restoration of infrastructure and refugee returns, but it's obvious that many of them were involved in money laundering and crime, and that they were now running around Europe and the world. Who came all this way? So there's no such thing as an organization. When I say organization, I mean a security organization that would track down those people who are still here in some register and at the Ministry of Justice and at entity ministries, and whoever got where, it's enough to gather two or three people, three people, which was later passed by law and set up an NGO. And of course, since BiH was in serious economic problems at the time and a little more money arrived here from various European institutions, including NGOs operating there, no one can trace where these organisations are now being led, whether they exist at all. But the fact is that through these NGOs is so-called. organisations, I don't compare them with these normal NGOs that deal with their regular work and activity, laundered huge money. So there's been a crime. Now, it's not only that the crime was done here, it has spread to other segments, in other areas and these other monsters. That's why we have problems today. Dear colleague Majkić said we will give support, of course to the amendments we will try, but to know really in one place who is the NGO. I stress right now that we are not involved in the work, organisation of NGOs, but we must have insight into what an NGO is, who represents this NGO, where they get funds from, who finance it. Well, to be honest, one day, let me ask if I should, of course, because they always ask us how much they pay. Because you'll see, an NGO: 12% of the laws envisaged. If they say we've been discussing these laws. And what's 12%? Because it's such a constitutional arrangement, because there's no proposed jurisdiction, because there's no violation of the Constitution, and that's another thing. But then, this is a good thing that at least that's how this area is regulated and that you know who are at least the bearers or the responsible persons in the court who registered that organization. And no, as one NGO or some people comes along, I don't label anyone, of course, it's organized, it sees a good thing on the Internet of some other NGO from Europe or a European country that provides funds for some activity, takes money, and spends money, whether private or not I know what they do, and they shut down or disappear, and they're still officially led to do something, that these people exist. Now, I repeat and conclude, 275 NGOs are still registered here with huge funds, and we can't trace these people because they ran away and they were mostly from European countries, of course, in coordination with our local people, organized it, took the money, and no one will ever be able to conduct an investigation of how much money they went through through these NGOs, what they realized of it, and to be open, as I always say, who stole all that money. Because it's not possible that so much investment has arrived in BiH right through them, and there's so little realisation. So I say, first reading can give support to this framework law to make that register, because it is good, to have at least an insight into who is running around BiH and what is doing there. When I say so, it is not an offensive issue for normal NGOs who really represent their membership. You have NGOs that have no membership at all, no membership at all. Three of them remembered to organize, see a good opportunity to take money from someone, and here's the NGO. The real NGO is the one behind which authentic membership stands, not to repeat now which NGOs are. There's a lot of them. I say there's over 10 grand, then no one can determine that. Whatever number you say, you won't make a mistake. We do not know how many institutions of ours that 24 formed by the Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly, so I once asked a rewarding question to see how many of these, not these NGOs. So to introduce order, to see what they're all dealing with, of course, and the financial flows that are just going to be the key, to see who's funding it. Three people founded an NGO, raised their wages enormously, and where they realized, what projects, what stories. They don't have membership, what kind of NGO they can be if they don't have any members, except three of them. So to introduce order. But when it's in the second reading and when it's this amendment phase, of course it's going to have to improve the amendments, to really get one normal law and to get NGOs that use this country, that do something to support it. And those who deal with these illegal acts, immediately through the Ministry of Justice to erase it and even ban their work. What's the NGO doing here with anti-constitutional activity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7037	The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7038	Thank you, Chairman. Well, there's a lot that my colleagues have said, and I just want to point out that the SDP Club also supports the adoption of this law. Like other colleagues, we have also been addressed by representatives of the NGO sector in BiH, some stressing the need for the adoption of such a law, some stressing their reserve against certain segments of the law, and some even the law as a whole. There are several questions that have been raised through this discussion, first of all, whether there are registers at the cantonal, entity and state level? Many claim to exist. Is this a law that needs to unite existing registers, or form new ones, where NGOs will be obliged to supply data. However, since there are a lot of ambiguities, and we agree that we need the law, it may not be a bad idea, to make a proper kind of public debate at this second stage, to invite representatives of the non-governmental sector and possibly clarify the ambiguities of the law and perhaps even get some good suggestions in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7039	The word has Adnan Bašić. My colleague Bašić is not here right now. I'm closing the debate. MP Borislav Bojić comes in for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7040	Given that the debate was conducted in relation to the NGO sector, only one sentence. I had no intention of speaking on this subject, but simply to clarify with respected colleagues who spoke about NGOs, my personal position and my opinion on NGOs is this. It's a very small number of NGOs. In my humble opinion, there are more government organizations. A government and an international institution are mostly behind each of these NGOs. So the issue of NGOs and their arrangements, the way they operate, that's something we should leave to these NGOs, and we certainly need to have information that NGOs do. 25 It is only for the sake of clarity that I believe that there are very few NGOs. I repeat once again that it is mainly government organisations, that mostly some government is behind these NGOs and there are, of course, several NGOs that are funded by international institutions. So I'm just saying, apropo of what my colleague Jovičić was, first of all, the most he spoke about was so-called. NGOs, so that we can simply clarify when it comes to the position of NGOs. Of course, it's not the subject of this law, I'm aware of that. There's only a register of NGOs here, and that's something that needs to be separated from what I've been talking about. So, about who NGOs are, what they do, what their goals are, what their motives are to organize, etc. The largest number of NGOs does not have membership fees and has serious financial resources. Here, that's what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7041	The word has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7042	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, so I also support this law. We do well to know that we have one register, and that is the NGO, so those who are members, or those who collect funds and who manage these funds. The organisation of the BiH NGO sector, it is clear that so far it has been a charmer, and this law will help us in one place to have a review. So those who finance it will be theirs, and theirs will be theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7043	I'm closing the debate within the seventh item of the agenda. Moving to the eighth point: Ad.8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers of the Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure on 13.10.2011. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the constitutional basis of the Pre-Process of the Law on 4.11.2011. The responsible Joint Defence and Security Commission delivered its opinion on the principles of the draft law on 9.11.2011. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Zijad Jagodić applied for the first discussion. It's a mistake, isn't it? The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7045	It's only short for me to say. The Defence and Security Commission unanimously supported the principles of this law. And let me just give you a brief explanation. It is therefore an initiative launched by the Police Body Coordination Directorate, supported by all BiH police agencies, in connection with the amendment of Article 123. The law on police officers in BiH, which sets a deadline for the employment of police officers instead of 31.12.2010, is set in 31.12.2012. It means moving the deadline, which was mainly due to the fact that the Council of Ministers only agreed on 19.8.2010 at its 130th session on the Proposal for a Regulation on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of the Police Body Coordination Directorate in BiH, and I think there is no reason not to support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7046	... Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Add.9. Decision on the participation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Group in the International Security Assistance Force operation for the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan In accordance with Article 6. The law on the participation of BiH Armed Forces members, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, the BiH presidency submitted a decision to confirm. The joint defence and security commission of BiH delivered its opinion on 9.11.2011. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad.10. Report on activities on the project ‘Autoput on Corridor 5c’ and plan of the next activities, under a) Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for conclusions 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Commission Opinion on Transport and Communication on the review of the Report on activities on the project ‘Autoput on Corridor 5c’ and the plan of the next activities
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7050	So, first, I would suggest that points 12 and 13 are discussed together, because practically the commission reports, although it says that the report on the realised permits for the transport of arms and military equipment and dual-use products for 2008, the report on issued arms and military equipment and dual-use products for 2009, means realised and issued, but we have made conclusions that are practically the same for both points. Why is it this way? First, I want to remind you
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7051	If you'll excuse me, what do you think about saying first about your conclusion to unite, and then having a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7052	Well, to argue together, it's impossible to separate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7053	Please prepare to vote. So I think this is a rational proposal to bring the 11th, 12th and 13th points together and then open the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7054	11 and 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7055	11th and 12th, good. Are you all ready to vote? Please vote, now! I agree that we have accepted this conclusion and we are opening a debate on the 11th and 12th agendas. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7056	So a few things like some background related to this whole case. The report on the licences issued for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009, so as this example, means issued in 2009, today is a debate, and we should have a report for 2010 and here is almost 2011 and we are discussing 2009. Report on realized permits for arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008, and we should have had a report for 2009, 2010, which says about how we deal with non-current materials all the time. We didn't talk about them when they were supposed to be spoken. The law provides for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to notify the Parliamentary Assembly once a year of the permits issued and the realized permits. And I must say that... in a quiet way, the amendments to the law have been made and no one has noticed that in the past law it was intended to be notified twice by the Parliamentary Assembly, because that is the only way that it can exercise parliamentary control in this delicate sector. And now we have, not that it's once a year, but once in three years we do it. What do these reports say? So we can see from them how many licences were issued, to which the countries were exported, but the Commission cannot see from the report the quantity and structure of exports and imports. That means he can't carry out his parliamentary oversight of this sector, because he doesn't know what it's about. The elements in that report are listed under the code. So, in no way can this commission do its job. Therefore, the categories on the common list of military equipment are listed and are said to have been exported EML 1, EML 2, ELV 016. On the basis of these parameters, parliamentary oversight of this delicate area, which both the OSCE and international organisations have drawn attention that BiH is not acting responsibly in this area. Since we cannot do our jobs, we have said that such reports, and not for the first time, have so far, several times in the last term, the Commission has said that such reports as the Ministry of Economic Relations delivers to us cannot serve Parliament to carry out a quality debate. And we didn't get a change of state, no matter what. And that's why this commission decided to draw conclusions that would make it a joint defence and security commission's attempt to sort things out. First conclusion: 'The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations undertakes to submit within 30 days to the Joint Commission on Defence and Security a detailed report on the realised permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008 and the Report on issued authorisations for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2009. So we don't need the codes." The second conclusion: 'The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations undertakes to respect the established reporting procedure for this issue. Within 60 days to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly a detailed report on the authorisations issued for 2010. year.' Here, we should have considered the 2010 report a long time ago. He's not even in sight. Third conclusion: "The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is committed to delivering, through the Council of Ministers, a proposal to amend the Foreign Trade Traffic Control Act of strategic importance for the security of BiH within 30 days." I mean Article 22 (1), which reintroduces the obligation to report to the Parliamentary Assembly on issued and implemented licences every six months. Then we can be current and take certain measures that will improve the situation in this area. 29 Fourth: 'The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is obliged to submit to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security a report on the work of the Inspectorate for the period 1.1.2006 to 31.12.2009 within 30 days. 'years.' So there's an inspectorate at the Ministry whose authority is to control this and we don't know what that man's doing at all, because we never got a record of what he's obliged to control. Finally: 'By considering the report on realised permits for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products and the 2009 Report on issued licences, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security proposes to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly to request detailed information on possible illegalities in this area from the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Prosecutors, the State Investigation and Protection Agency and other agencies, in particular bearing in mind the letter of Mission of the OSCE sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 6.9.2010 and the BiH Presidency of 24.3.2001, as well as the reply of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (SIPA) to the Council of Ministers of 3.2.2009. 'years.' This is about abuses in this area, and Parliament needs to know what this is about. So that's the essence of both issues, to improve the state of the ministry itself from the reporting aspect, to make this ministry legally mandatory to report twice, and thus to create mechanisms that will allow things that have happened to all of us to never happen again. So, I am responsible for saying that the Parliamentary Commission for Defence and Security has not been able to do its job successfully so far. Thank you. So that's my speech one point at a time and another.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7057	I thank the esteemed representative Dušanka Majkić. The word has a respected representative, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7058	Of course, I will also discuss both issued and realised permits, so points 11 and 12. It's interesting that... these same two reports the same commission adopted in the previous session with a large number of votes. Of course, the Commission's call at the time also pointed to some problems. Obviously, the new Commission's call was more detailed on this, was providing additional information and, as far as I'm concerned, I am absolutely behind these conclusions, which I have voted for on the Commission and I absolutely support them. But the things are, the subject itself is extremely serious and we really need to make sure that everything we say here that we have arguments and that it's supported by facts. I mostly agree with Mrs. Majkić's discussion, with what I would say, however, that the earlier situation in this area has progressed. So, EU directives are being implemented and, according to the information I have, we have the most rigid procedure in this region and the most transparent. The OSA is included, the obligation is to include the OSA. Unfortunately, however, OSA's opinion is not always reflected. So I'm staying with what we've concluded unanimously as a committee, but I'm saying there are some things that have gone forward, and I hope that these activities and the implementation of these conclusions will lead to a satisfactory level. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7059	I thank the esteemed representative, Beriz Belkić. The next word came from the esteemed representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7060	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, here I would like to talk a little bit about this, for me personally and possibly for BiH, a very important topic. We are together talking about the permits issued for 2008 for the transport of arms, military equipment and dual-use products in 2009 and the realized permits in 2008. We, in my opinion, fully unnecessaryly adopted Report, which the Commission had on the agenda in the previous session and gave a positive opinion – back to parliamentary procedure and then dragged it back here for months to come to today's session of Parliament. Why is it done, I honestly wouldn't want to claim it. Because maybe I don't have any proof of it. But I have my own thinking, and it's based on facts. What does "unacceptable" mean now, and what does "unacceptable" mean at this point, at all, is what kind of consequences are produced? First of all, it produces major problems for one industry, a branch of industry that is export-oriented and which without any foreign support, support, thanks to its own knowledge and intelligence and existing and working on a competitive market has managed to survive and to do better and better business. This non-acceptance of these reports implies and already has consequences that some of the projects, i.e. from jobs, contracted transactions, can be very difficult to implement, as authorisation is being issued which is otherwise completely transparent. About how transparent it is and how accurate there are documents. Whoever is interested in this can find these documents on the pages of how the UN decision, the same decision to ban, or export to certain countries, was also a reason to radicalise these things this way. And then it can also be found in NGOs that are monitoring this sector around the world, and in order to be able to monitor it, they must have transparent and uniform reports. This report, i.e. these reports we received and we should not have received them because they were to be adopted, because the previous commission adopted them, speak of it and have already been printed and praised as good reports by international organisations following this area. And there is also a written document about it and published publications. On the other hand, the question of the detailed report required by this ministry is taking back things that are first illegal, because the law does not require that such a report be given in parliamentary procedure, and secondly, there may be terrible problems for producers and exporters. Why? Because such a report would contain all the details of what is being exported, how much money there is, and you know why it can serve. So it can serve to pass it on to a country that also has an interest in exporting the same goods to some markets where they appear as competitors. I personally cannot join such a thought that we are now in this commission's position, however logical and normal they seem to someone and as a protection, also bring down this small industry that works exportably, which is export-oriented. For this reason, I propose that we adopt reports in the form and form they are, because it is all in accordance with international norms and regulations that are very transparent. The procedure that has taken place is completely transparent and has been assessed as such by international factors. And I see no reason why we would not adopt these reports if the Commission adopted them in the previous term, if they are fully valid according to international criteria, if they are already accepted, because they are old reports and are dragging around Parliament for a long time, why don't we adopt them. And to discuss whether the law needs to be amended, whether six months is enough, whether it is necessary every six months to consider it, or whether we should follow the law that applies, which says it is being considered every year. You see, we're not capable of this three or four, how many, four years, three years full, not being able to adopt this report, and it would take us 31 every six months to get information. I think we should and invite you to adopt reports in this form in which they were delivered to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7061	I thank the distinguished representative Nermina Zaimović. A distinguished representative, Dušanka Majkić, reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7062	So, I just want to say a few things. Why it was put back on the table to the Commission. Because the previous commission was considering the day before the election, 30.8. So it's never happened and it's really unusual, it's a lot of trouble for someone to make the day before the election think about something. And the second reason we've reconsidered, which in the meantime happened a few significant things that say there are problems here. So at this point, the investigational organs of the SIPA and the D.A.'s office and here, and the Court are dealing with this. I know it was done according to international standards for explaining international institutions, but Parliament does not need codes. We need a report that we can recognize, understand, and talk about. Let them make two reports, procedures that go towards the international community in one way, and, according to Parliament, clear, unequivocal and otherwise. And I mean, the additional OSCE warned us. Guys, don't play games. You're preparing to export things you can't export. BiH is violating international agreements. She sent us two letters. And if this home doesn't feel that it should be dealt with in a very delicate yet comprehensive manner, then I don't know what MPs should be doing. So I respect those who think it's all to say, here's nothing wrong with that, and none of the conclusions that are proposed in any way touch anyone except that it introduces order. And that's what we need to know if we're trying not to put order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7063	Šefik Džaferović signed up for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7064	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I was on this committee when we discussed these points of the agenda I had the position to accept these reports and to accept these conclusions. And that's something that would be completely logical. I even suggested that these reports be noted and that these conclusions be adopted, of course, offered here. Because be careful, if these reports are rejected, then it can send a message that there's actually nothing wrong in this area. Maybe it's someone's goal to send a message like that. I believe that there are certain problematic cases in this area, which are also mentioned in the OSCE letter, which are also mentioned in some other places and addresses, some procedures and procedures are being conducted. And of course, we need to deal with it. But the team to tear down the complete reports and say that nothing is right, I think it is unacceptable and there are more and more of those who claim that such actions are actually calculated, with the aim of destabilising the dedicated industry in BiH. 32 I am for us to strengthen the dedicated industry in BiH, to make the procedures completely clear, completely transparent, completely legal, to control and deal with cases that are not okay and which are suspicious and which are indicated. But that we're only dealing with cases, and we're destroying the dedicated industry, and I don't want to do it, nor will they go after anyone else, if anyone has such intentions. And there are those who claim to have such intentions in this House. And let them know that their intentions will not pass. So I think we should adopt these reports and support these conclusions. There's only a problem here with one of these conclusions. That's what the people of the Foreign Trade Ministry warned us about. When it comes to this detailed report, I think they should provide us with a report, but in procedures and the way it's being delivered around the world, when it comes to this area. So, you know procedures all over the world when it comes to this area. And I don't see why BiH would be an exception to all that. And I think BiH should also act in this way, that is, its bodies in communication with Parliament. Here I mean the degree of secrecy, here I mean business secrets, here I mean everything that is meant by that. We should act like the rest of the modern world in this area. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7065	Replica, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7066	In fact, it's about the incorrect quote I made. So now I've been persuaded by the department's department that the record is each signed by an OSA representative. My information was that there was always no respect for OSA's opinion. So if the record is signed, then I have to deny myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7067	Replica, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7068	Just one sentence. This is a matter of protecting legitimacy, legality and fighting crime. Anyone who talks about it speaks for themselves. So, I'm not talking about purpose and I have nothing to talk about purpose, if it's about crime. Things need to be examined and Parliament needs to be delivered a valid report. That's all I'm talking about. We can vote and say that it is not so, that Parliament does not have to deal with it, that it does not matter, it is important that it works purposefully, and it is precisely crime that has been to the top. It's just a question of who's gonna clear that up. So if this is a matter whose solution, despite the OSCE warning, depends only on me, then don't adopt. It really doesn't make sense that I'm talking about it myself. I expected to get every single support to fight crime in this area. If someone thinks it's more likely to fight for an unintended sector that doesn't work properly, then it's another thing. And that's what to say, that's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7069	Saša Magazinović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7070	It would be good if we, as Parliament, and in particular the members of this commission, were trying to support the dedicated industry in BiH, rather than looking for ways to make it difficult for it this difficult. There is an impression that sometimes there is a deliberate demand for reasons to recover companies, and rare are the industrial areas that 33 are recovering in BiH, and the dedicated industry is recovering – making this path more complicated and more difficult. It also gets very often the impression that this area, so very often, and needlessly politicizing, and I am taking the opportunity to invite all of us MPs to give up that bad intention. Instead of affirming, with everything else we're talking about today, new employees in this area, no one mentions it, and we're dealing with all other things, except for the affirmation of what's currently going on in the dedicated industry. Special subject is data protection, someone mentioned a business secret, a degree of secrecy. So is it logical for you that the BiH company participating in the international market should publicize its data, given that it has very high competition in the countries of the region. And what does he have to say now, who he's trading with, what are the prices, what are the products? That doesn't make sense. However, what I support, Mrs Majkić, is a sentence she said: that members of the Commission who have and should have supervision in this area should have data on what they are watching. And I am sure that this can also be ensured without these data being made available to the entire public, made available to the members of this committee under certain conditions, the degree of secrecy of data and everything else, because that is something that is quite logical in the part of the work that our fellow MPs are doing by working as part of this commission. And finally, I want to say, when it comes to any irregularities in this area, the SDP Club absolutely supports any fight against them and we believe that SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office should do their job, Parliament and parliamentary commission their job. But even though we clearly highlight our support, the fight against any irregularities, we are absolutely opposed to the fact that in this same fight against irregularities... there is something else that has a political and any other background that we do not need at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7071	Asim Sarajlić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7072	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I come from a municipality where the dedicated industry has been the backbone of the development of the entire local community over the past 50-60 years, or by the beginning of the war, and I really know what this type of industry can bring to the development of not only one local community but also countries as a whole. And the importance of this industry in BiH and in the former state has indeed reborn certain local communities throughout BiH, so if you will, in the former state as well. So this question is always open and always is as current as our beginnings and our attempts and our efforts after the war here were to try to find markets for these companies, how to train companies that have been destroyed, devastated, robbed, after all, and these governments at lower levels have been dealing with the current problem for 15-16 years. What is, of course, the position of the SDA Club today and I will do it again, although my colleagues have said, is that we and the Report and the Information will support and support these conclusions made by the Commission. And we will always support Mrs. Majkić and anyone in this room when it comes to irregularities and when it comes to obvious crime. But we cannot assume the authority, neither Mrs. Majkić nor I, to take over the roles of this country's instruments that have the authority to carry out certain things, check and then report to us. So neither Mrs. Majkić nor any of us have that right. But in any case, always Mrs. 34 Majkić and any of the MPs here will have our full support when certain irregularities are observed. When certain illegalities are observed, the SDA will also stand by any such initiative and that is why we will still support these conclusions today. The dedicated industry is a very specific industry and you know it very well. The former system used to manage the dedicated industry directly from the Federal Secretariat for People's Defence, hence contracts were concluded outside the country through the secretariat, etc. Therefore, any information here that would endanger the market for our businesses, compromise competitiveness, because don't forget that only one part of the dedicated industry in BiH was done here, other components and similar content were made in the former republics of the Socialist Yugoslavia. That's the concept he had in mind. So any price auctioning here on products, etc., we can give an argument to someone else to take our job tomorrow, or to put our companies at risk on the market, which I hope no one in this room is the target. Once again, we will always support Mrs. Majkić's full support in the work of this commission and we will always support her in trying to correct irregularities, to point out irregularities and to sanction the responsible, but of course we must not endanger what she is and what we all advocate, not only in election campaigns but also here in Parliament, to fight for economic prosperity and the rise of BiH's economy and the rise of the dedicated industry in both bh. An entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7073	The word is Mato Franjičević. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7074	Oh, I didn't mean to answer, but, since, in fact, the ghastly story has narrowed down to the problem of parliamentary surveillance, I think we need to say a few words. First of all, as far as the BiH HDZ is concerned, we will, of course, support these conclusions that this commission unanimously adopted and proposed to the House of Representatives. Perhaps this, in my view, more important thing, in order to detect irregularities, possible irregularities in these and similar areas, and in order for Parliament to be fully in the control function, and this is one of the more important functions of each Parliament in the system of parliamentary democracy – there must be an opportunity to simply see some facts. Without that degree, the minimum degree of transparency cannot be determined whether there are irregularities or not, unless we limit ourselves to performing our supervisory function pro-forma or in some cases performing pro-forma. I don't think that's good. I think both this Parliamentary Assembly and this House of Representatives should insist on as much transparency as possible and on enabling parliamentary oversight as possible. And finally, if there are any irregularities, this is one small replica to Mr. Magazinović, and I am against it, of course, to be politicized and to be politically afraid of this thing. However, if there are irregularities themselves, if they have these elements, then it is clear that our debate will necessarily have to have those elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7075	Replica, Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7076	Well, it's very short. I don't actually have anything to take away or add to this final part of my speech by my colleague Franjičević. Actually, that's the direction my discussion was going. Maybe I didn't say it as clearly as my colleague Franjičević, but we mostly think of the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7077	No more reports. You've been answering your word, haven't you? However, in accordance with Article 168, ministers may be deputy ministers. I can only ask Dom if you want the assistant minister to address. It's not necessary. I am closing the debate on this agenda item, i.e. paragraphs 11 and 12. We now move to the 13th item of the agenda: Ad.13. Information on the resolution of surplus weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets of the Armed Forces of BiH The BiH Ministry of Defence delivered the Information in 3.8.2010. The joint defence and security commission of BiH in the previous meeting discussed the Information and delivered its opinion. At its 9th session, held on 24.8.2011, at the House College's proposal, the Joint Commission concluded that information should be reconsidered and a new opinion should be delivered to the House. We received the opinion of the Joint Commission on 6.10.2011. The Commission has proposed to Dom a conclusion that I will not read again, it has been delivered to you. I'm opening an information debate. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7079	So, this topic is also in the responsibility of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, and I would just like a few words to help with the decision-making process. Therefore, the first material to be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly was related to the Information on the resolution of surplus weapons and mine-explosive funds came in 12.1.2009 under the code, and then it was withdrawn after that, and then the code of secrecy was removed, so the new material came after that. So, five materials were either coming and returning and never came the final material based on which this commission should take a position on the Information on the resolution of surplus weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets. Since you can see in public what's going on, so we have to keep so much maturity that we at least try to look into things to the end. The fact is that all institutions are doing their job and the fact that we will have very soon, not only brought up charges, but here is the case, and the Court has begun to investigate. Therefore, in order not to bring a single thing that would be against anyone, that no one can say against purpose is, that no one can say against the Ministry of Defence is – the Commission has proposed that a Joint Commission be formed from members of the 36 Defence and Security Commission which should examine these allegations, to obtain materials that are in circulation and that this conclusion, namely that the report of the Commission comes to this House. I don't think there's any reason why this kind of transparency of the entire case isn't being conducted. Because I really think that's how parliamentary surveillance is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7080	Beriz Belkić applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7081	Very short. I was offered this answer to a parliamentary question asked by Mr. Zvonko Jurišić, where the Ministry of Defence responds to proceedings, and disciplinaryly, etc., and that certain applications were made to the Prosecutor's Office. And it would be very important for these processes to end as soon as possible and that would probably be valid answers to some things, because for some things Mr. Jurišić also asked this question. And by the way, I'm basically staying in support of the formation of this commission for the simple reason to break up with all these huge speculations, speculations, abuses and dangers that always exist, just because people say we have 5 kilos of explosives per capita, and it's undestructed.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7082	Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7083	Well, this is something quite different from the previous two points, and it's also about the important thing that needs to be done in this country, that is to get rid of excess weapons, ammunition, mine-explosive means that poses danger to everyone. We're through this report that came,...we first heard from the media that it's about 11,000 tons, and that's from the highest level of this country's criticism, 11,000 tons, so 11,000 tons has been poured into 11 tons, so 11 tons at the end of the report became 19 kg. Just because you don't know what's there and who's using it, using it, doing it right or not doing it, I support the real formation of this commission so that in the future it doesn't become 11,000 tons, that things and their order are known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7084	Darko Babalj signed up for the discussion in the court extension.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7085	I don't think we're right, but we also agree and support this committee and also its conclusion that it does, that is to determine what is clear to all of us in some things. But I think by getting up all of us, repeating each other, we don't contribute to some constructive debate and constructive dialogue. I didn't contribute either, but here I am saying that we are, and I think it's a very, very difficult situation. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7086	I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 14th item of the agenda: Ad.14. Security information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2010 The BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Information on 3.6.2011. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission delivered its opinion on 20.10.2011 and did not receive information. I'm opening an information debate. The word has Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7088	First, I'm really embarrassed to have to report for every point, but as chairman of the Commission, I have an obligation to say something about it. I hope my colleagues from the Commission will back me up as well. So, here you see, this is the Security Status Information for 2010 which the Commission did not take into account. Why? First, let me tell you that the sector that oversees the Joint Defence and Security Commission, so the defence and security sector, holds 54% of the budget, carries within it the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, carries seven security agencies. So this is really one big area, and I have to tell you that this requires a huge effort to carry out quality parliamentary supervision. And your suggestions that would be in the direction of helping us would really be welcome. So far, these good intentions have been very little. I invite you in any way if you can help the work of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, it will mean a lot to us. Why this report hasn't been adopted. First of all, I want to tell you that for the third time in the third time, the minister has decided to attend the session of this committee. It is impossible in this way, and this disrespect of the Commission, that three times you must invite him to come. And finally, what kind of message shows any ministry that never comes to the Commission. What is the responsibility of these people sitting in those positions? So, I'm very aware of that, it's just that it's either a minister or a minister from the SNSD. I can't bear to have such important things spoken of without people acting like they're not interested in anything but well-paid travel and walking around the world. And I'm really disappointed about that. So the first reason he didn't come. What's the other reason? Questions, which I wanted to ask him but I didn't have a chance because he ran away, did the Ministry of Security help and facilitate the work of police agencies in BiH? So we had a big rally in Tesla. About 80 people attended the gathering. All the directors of the agencies, all the generals and key men of the Department of Defense, were the only ones who were not the Minister of Security. And on that occasion, we said that we needed good co-operation to communicate with each individual ministry and every agency. 38 Another question we wanted to ask him when it comes to the 2010 report, how this ministry is co-ordinating between security agencies at all, because it is known to be its only task. Two hundred people at the Ministry of Security should coordinate work between security agencies. How do they coordinate it if no one comes to the session to let us know? ... How is the exchange of data between security agencies conducted? And finally, the key thing I expected the minister to say, how is the anti-terrorism strategy and the fight against organised crime being implemented? We haven't been able to get anything out of it, we have this report which is a collection of reports from entity and cantonal MUPs. And that's the safety report. Maybe for someone. As a member of the Commission, I did not get a key answer, which are security threats and challenges that stand before the country, which was required to respond to us. ... How to adopt such a report? So I'm not ready. Those who are willing to support such a report will have to answer the question of the public, how is it that this report, which has nothing on it, has collected elements, is this a report that goes towards Parliament? Ministers will have to learn to treat Parliament more responsibly, but it's primarily our fault that we let them send us all kinds of material here. ... If we'd shown it to two, a third wouldn't have happened. So here's the suggestion of conclusions. So, let's not accept the ministry's position and make sure this doesn't happen next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7089	The word is Božo Ljubić, the second vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7090	Fellow Members and colleagues, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers! In the end, I'm in a double role when this is a question for discussion. So, as a representative but also as a member of the relevant committee, I also participated in the debate there and had the opportunity to hear the argument of the other colleagues. We actually need to answer our own question here first about what we're discussing. Are we discussing the state of security in BiH or the work of the Ministry of Security? Because in the debate itself, during the treatment of this matter on this committee, we have approached from both angles. And I don't mind that, and nobody should mind, because those two things are interdependent. However, when we decide whether to accept or not to accept this report, we need to be more specific about what we choose. I'll say a few things here. It should, of course, be critical of each report, according to the institutions, towards the ministry, but the same should be, to say the least correct and to assess the possibilities of an institution in a particular area. We all know that BiH's Ministry of Security is only partly responsible for everything that has been summed up in this report and its responsibility primarily concerns the coordination of state agencies, and this can, of course, be discussed, whether this was the best possible way for the Ministry of Security. But as for other agencies, entity ministries, county ministries and their agencies, etc., we know that the powers of the state ministry are very limited, and then this report is, in some ways, a more complex report of all these agencies, including state, entity and county. What I lack in this report, therefore, is one approach to making this report, because it is actually based almost exclusively on police aspects of security, and the less treated the 39 others are as important, if not more important: social, economic, political, constitutional, etc. So these are the things that future reports should contain. When we go through this report and we see the points that are treated in it, point 2.1. Border security: statistics relating to infringements and safety risks have been provided, of course. However, what I miss about this report is the report, in fact, under quotes, on the internal security of these agencies, such as the Border Police, SIPA, etc. Reading the media, we had the opportunity to hear that not a small number of border police officers, the SIPA official was also involved in these violations that treat this report, and I don't see here how many are suspended, punished, away from work, etc. And what a tendency it is, in fact, what a graduate of the last few years in these violations. It's organized crime I'm not even talking about. In fact, we are still in BiH in general dealing only with marginal forms of organised crime and events in the neighbourhood and across Europe should be a guideline to which direction we should go. What I particularly care about here and miss in this report, and that's what's being treated under point 3.1. The challenge of national, religious hatred, discord, impatience, etc. Here is an incident to highlight a flag of a group of provocators on a football field set up at one point to be taken by a public television and to make them a big problem. And in fact, here some public electronic media, which almost entire nations, declare their political representatives fascists and put them in the context of fascist symbols. Which is already a challenge to religious, national and any other hatred. Furthermore, as far as the crimes of economic crime are concerned, in fact, as far as I could see, the only increase recorded here is, which can mean something and doesn't have to do anything. It could be about detecting or non-disclosure of certain crimes, so the increase is 6.53%. However, I responsibly argue that the problem is much bigger than it is shown here and here and than we actually know, because we don't have the data from the agencies that do it. I continue to argue that the existence of this crime is, in fact, the consequence of the narrow range of economic operators and policies at all levels. And that's why we don't really have the right culprits and the right proportions of discovery and consumption. As far as matter is concerned, point 7. Criminal acts against copyright, so how can we talk about a credible fight against this form of crime when our CDs and DVDs, etc. They sell almost legally at border crossings... where the focus of these agencies should be the biggest. Well legal issue, under quotes, in videos of pirated content, so distribution of branded and forged clothes, shoes etc. And at the end of the robbery. So we from the media hear about bank robberies, post office, etc. The report states that the situation is better in 2010 than in 2009. 24 banks and mail were robbed from 37 in 2009, but the amount of money stolen is known to me, around 900 thousand and some marks. And I know from the media that a shipment of one bank was actually robbed, which was accompanied by an agency and was reported stolen by several million marks. If at least we don't have the information from the perpetrators caught, then at least we should have the information on the stolen money from the institutions whose money was stolen, to get the right picture. And finally, I want to say what is the essence, in my opinion, of the state of security, as this information on BiH says, what should be imagined, and what is mine, so to speak, the impression and not just my larger many other people. In BiH today, some matrixes that were visible in the former state in the late 80s and early 90s are visible. Conflicts at sports sites are, in my opinion, just a symptom of 40 diseases, not a disease per se. And we need to take this seriously. The propaganda action of the media rather than informational, which extends to the point that even some public television has abolished the information-political programme. So they have no information-political program at all. Furthermore, the autovactimisation of its own nation, its own collectiveity, so collective auto-viktimisation, and the collective accusation of other nations. Furthermore, an attempt to achieve national domination, including a violation of the Constitution and the Electoral Law. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think these are the most serious security threats in BiH, and this should also be treated in future reports. Returning to the beginning, when I said it should be critical of the reports and of the work of the institutions, given that this institution is actually less responsible for what is being treated here, I will support this report, but this debate is a guideline or a recommendation for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7091	Replica, Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7092	I answered the discussion first, and then I realized I could replicate, but I just don't know who. ... This is the point of the agenda that we are discussing, and I wanted to speak to the Minister once, and I saw that he was not there, and then I saw that he was not there, and then I saw that he was not there. I think the minister's behaviour in the Council of Ministers is extremely incorrect towards this home and I think, the chairman, that we, as the House of Ministers, should do something with you to try to seriousise the situation in BiH. And if we can't do that, then we write to the leaders of the political parties to tell them they're coming to the sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7093	Slavko Jovičić answered for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7094	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, every time I spoke to the post-festum about a report which is mostly a collection of statistics collected from other security agencies, so fully aware that we can't change a word there, but what I always insist on, especially when this segment is a matter of, because the safety of one country is not a static category, it's a dynamic category so we can discuss at the 11th month on the 2010 Report and there's so much we can't change, we can only accept this report or refuse, it's a waste of time in which I'm going to participate most in my discussion today. So, supporting what Honorable counterpart Ljubić said, and not to explain all those things there now, of course, I support everything, but I can't ask because I am aware that we are getting daily reports from the Ministry of Security and other agencies that send the highest officials in this country, but at least once a month we should have a agenda point before European integration. Because what if the European integration is not a people safe in this country, if they are not allowed to send a child to school, if an MP is not allowed to come to Parliament, if the worker is not allowed to come to work? We must create an environment of security, the security of every citizen not to fear everyone, although it is never excluded, because there is no agency or ministry. They can detect and identify 41 potential terrorists, those who threaten the safety of people, assets, but there is never an agency in the world that will enter the mental circuit and reveal the intentions when it will be an active, possible perpetrator of these most serious forms of crime. It really needs to be concerned if there have been so many traffic violations, but now that's another question. Have we ever authorized some agencies to issue a certificate that the car is correct to get out on the road, not to buy on the track, practically on the track, like that mobile phone card, a confirmation of the correctness of the vehicle, and he's 30 years old, he can't go down the road. And when there's a car accident, then we remember whether it was a technical checkup or not. So countless things are included here in one piece of information. But I'm saying, since security is a dynamic category, and we don't need post-festum reactions when something happens, but we can't even go as Parliament, so we can predict what's going to happen because we have agencies and that's why we need to hire them as a maximum. And what does that mean? To organize one session, to bring them all here, which I always stress, so my esteemed colleague Babalj thought of these empty rows to fill them in a little bit, so if we need to sit there and tell us what a security situation is in this country, not to inform ourselves from the media, so we can get information that this terrorist in Sarajevo came in from Serbia that day, which is not true. And it doesn't matter where he came from, he did it here. But the information was first good to create an opportunity for some institutions to act in this area, because if it were the right information, there would be no other information that followed that first information happening.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7095	But this is the Security Information in 2010.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7096	Well, I'm just saying that in 2010, we wouldn't be hooked up with this information to discuss it at the 11th month, which is unnecessary, for no reason at all. There's nothing wrong with it. Who's going to answer? Here's everything right there. Who will be rewarded? What are we gonna do about it? That's why I'm proposing two conclusions today given the current situation, it's security, not information about what happened in 2010. All the newspapers published what happened yesterday and the day before, not in 2010, and no one remembers what happened. That's why I'm suggesting two conclusions. That BiH's Ministry of Security is tasked with immediately starting procedures to banish all non-regular and common ways of gaining BiH's citizenship from BiH territory, not making riots and dharma in the Azilant Centre and destroying everything without anyone doing anything. I also propose this home to hold a debate just as I spoke about the topic and security, but this time, with a view specifically to the final results related to the list of naturalised citizens of BiH and the results of the Commission's work on the revision of these citizenships. We know the fate of that commission and that manager and what it was and what it was like, and we never ended that story here in Parliament, because that's how we all start. It's important that we started and were now active, but we never finish anything. That's why I suggest this first conclusion. And second, that the House of Representatives owes the Ministry of Security to launch all legal and other mechanisms to establish full security control over the famous centre of Wahhabi residence in the Maoca area, as well as identified other centres in BiH, with a view to King Fahd's religious facility in Sarajevo, because there is information from the media and our institutions that no one is allowed there alive if it is not in that Wahhabi circle or some people who are supporters. So, here in Sarajevo, what have I got to say about Maoča? Since I said security is a dynamic category, 42 I ask you, of course we can't every day get information, we can get it once a month and the minister here informs us what the situation is, not to be informed by the media because there are two police cars left tonight, bombs dropped. Which one of the cops is going out tomorrow to stand up to the terrorists? This country has all the mechanisms but we have to get out of here, we are the most invited, to our security structures and agencies, not to beg them and ask for information, to issue an order to start doing their jobs and wherever they face their problems, and whether they are legal, whether they are material or these, to report this Parliament, to see what we can do. Terrorism is not the problem of entities, cantons, BiH, Europe, it is the global problem of the world. That's why we have to put everything here and this, whatever report we have today, which I don't care about in 2010, past, hello, 11 months. Give me today that tomorrow the children of President Denis Bećirović, Slavko Jovičić, Mark Marko Marković, Joza Jozić, go safely to school together, not to fear who will come to the cafe that is dangerous and blow up tonight, neither do I, how many people. We need to bring down panic, bring down tensions, give people support that this country takes care of the safety of its citizens. That's the point. What someone wrote in 2010, I absolutely don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7097	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7098	Here I am not going to deal with this procedural aspect. So this is about receiving knowledge or not accepting. We've all read this and we've practically found out what this is about, so it doesn't matter if we've received it or if we haven't received it from the commission. In a good part of the discussion with Mr. Ljubić, I would agree. Of course, this information reflects a statistical set of information and security assessments from a series of agencies, from ministries, which are probably by different methods and in different ways of the rules and then it wasn't easy to put all this together and provide us with one whole information. I will not say what you all know, what security means for all citizens, for all people in this country, that it is universal, that it is an indivisible fight against safety offenders, not only at the level of the state but in the whole region, etc. For me, the first question, for us here, for both homes of this House, is whether we have created a regulatory framework and institutions that can respond to the challenges that BiH has in particular. And then we can discuss whether any function has been performed in terms of how we want to have complete security, etc. Or in the second version, do we have a harmonised action of the institutions that we have, or whether our Ministry of Security, which according to the statements here has a large number of MPs having a co-ordination role. So there's no original, so to speak, jurisdiction. Here's the conclusion that Mr. Jovičić suggests, that this ministry does so, etc., absolutely that the ministry can't possibly do, because that kind of jurisdiction doesn't exist. So, for me, the real question is whether we have a state-level regulatory response that should be able to resist the challenges and violations of security in this country and whether we have state-owned instruments for that, are they sufficient. If that's all right, then we can say and ask for responsibility from those institutions. So we will definitely have to approach this issue on the occasion of this information in a broader way, i.e. a more comprehensive way. And now we have one situation to discuss this information that we are talking about today, we have proposed measures and actions relating to the first six months. 43 So my recommendation would be that this ministry practically updates these recommendations in light of the moment when this information has been made to date, so including these events of the latest that we have had, these acts of terrorism here in Sarajevo and a series of other acts that daily pour uncertainty among citizens, which we have daily, both in return, and in stadiums, and graphite, and on the street, etc. etc. So obviously this information and discussion of this information for answers will not be enough, and it seems to me that we will have to ask for a different approach in order for these two homes, or our House of Representatives, to respond to what is his duty, because we are the ones who pass the laws, we are the ones who establish institutions. So, as far as I'm concerned, I've received information from information, and these measures and actions are practically not current. They were related to the first six months, and were created at the end of 2010.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7099	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not from this area, so if I make a few mistakes, I'll make a few suggestions, but unfortunately there are no people who should hear it. But I hope they get that information based on a stenogram or a record. It happens, and the metals know that one of the biggest discoveries in the metal industry said one philosopher was going around one factory where he saw the thread cut, he said, so I thought that you guys put it between the two rollers and roll and thus gave the idea to the experts to solve the problem that was crucial. That's why I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but I'll make some of the suggestions. We see that the problem in BiH is security, and here we all agree that in some ways we have to do everything to make security safer. Because you never know when those who have evil intentions, where and where they will use their weapons or what they have. For these reasons, it is our job to work on educating, training citizens and youth and all together that we have to register these cases in good time, register, report, etc. What's going on in public media? Is there ever anything to say about security? In England, every citizen is required to report if anything happens and if he notices it's something. We don't have those things. But we have to do it with the youth, we have to do it with the adult. What's the problem? We have a cop who provides a particular facility or, I don't know, and he's carrying a gun, a short pipe, and whoever goes to attack, he's better armed than him, he always goes with a long automatic pipe, etc. And they're in an unfavourable position right away. People who decide to rob banks, solve banks, they kill people, and not everyone, very often in the paper hears, shoots, no matter what his life was threatened, he shoots a man, takes the money and runs. My proposal and suggestion to this ministry is to launch a particular initiative, since there were weapons gatherings, etc., on a voluntary basis. Maybe it wouldn't be bad to think about the idea of paying anyone who brings automatic weapons. To set aside funds and pay off. It's better to pay for it to come under control and take, or others, anyone who reports someone who has a long pipe, automatic weapons or illegal carrying to simply get a certain adequate reward. Whether it needs it through the entity ministries or so. But in order to be safe, in a way, you should. 44 Then take such rigorous sanctions and measures for anyone who finds automatic weapons that he should receive drastic punishments. For those reasons, there's my suggestion that we try to work on these two things. If the idea isn't good, I'm sorry, but I don't think it worked out... because we see that he's constantly using automatic weapons against a cop who has a short pipe, so he can't even... because right now... For those reasons, here's one idea, let's think about it. It didn't work out this way. Let's pay. It looks a little funny, but believe me, and it's better, because if we save one life, we've done a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7101	The word has Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7102	Absolutely, I fully support the discussion of my colleagues. This is how we could discuss the previous point when we talked about surpluses of weapons. Of course, I'm kidding. There are many lagging weapons in BiH, and this is indeed a serious initiative and a serious topic worth considering and perhaps considering. Here's me running, whether it's the Defense and Security Commission or someone else, but to take care of it. A lot of these actions, a lot of these harvests happened, and the other day, here I am reading in the media, at Doboj's, six were found there, I think, a mortar 82 mm. I mean, my colleague's talking about short pipes, and we've got more people who have mortars in their home arsenal. Of course, we have information on the state of security in BiH, the material of the Council of Minsitarians, which was created on 3.6.2011. We, as my colleague Ljubić said, can observe this with more aspects, but today we are bringing about discussions on the currents that are from 15 days ago. So I repeat, this material was made on the Council of Ministers in 3.6.2011 and is talking about the Information on the Security State in BiH. I would only, and in that sense, propose the conclusions of Mr. Jovičić, my esteemed colleague, who tasks the Ministry of Security to immediately begin with procedures to banish all persons who have not regularly and normally acquired citizenship. So there are those who have acquired citizenship in an irregular and unusual way. It also proposes that this House hold a debate on the final results related to the list of naturalised citizens of BiH and the results of the commission's work. I do not think that we should open these topics here today, we should give support to BiH institutions to implement the laws and all that is a rural society, a common society of BiH that cannot meet all the challenges, such as today's global terrorism, so we can't have much more organised and organised and more powerful countries in the world to answer and solve problems in someone's heads or when someone dares to commit an individual crime, and we have had the opportunity to see, unfortunately, both in Sarajevo and Banja Luka and elsewhere, that I do not repeat. But let's not put this in a daily context. He'd be right here at kralj Fahd's facility, etc. Immediately, the SNSD president, Mr. Milorad Dodik, would say, ran a monument to the dead defenders, volunteers, we tell the mercenaries from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, etc. Where are the survivors? And they're on this probably census that got citizenship, today they live in the BiH area. Let's not go back to those stories. 45 Terrorism has no faith, no nation. And he knocked on our door, especially on the door of BiH, which came out of a terrible war 16 years ago. Don't go back to it, let's not, now we're closing down religious facilities,... let the institutions do their job. So there is no one to support it and let’s not bring it down to some particular religious group or sect, now because of its currentity. the whole problem. It's not just a problem in BiH. He's got a lot of other problems, and unfortunately he's not the only one. But we are not strong enough society to act together and synchronisedly on the entire territory of BiH. So I ask my colleague to withdraw these conclusions, because we certainly cannot support them in this form, because they raise doubts, yet to say that they deepen the crisis and amount, after all, to infidelity... to the institutions of the BiH state, and we are all here to protect both the Constitution and to build BiH institutions and, ultimately, to account for us. So any story for daily political purposes, when Mevlid came, why he came, where he came from, etc. – let the institutions of this country carry out all the necessary actions and, of course, I agree, here are other proposals from fellow Members, so let a full report be submitted to us, because today the Information and this item of the agenda is really outdated, and we are talking about the current state and the current event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7103	Replica, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7104	Dear fellow Sarajliću, I could really support a part of your discussion, but I never mention the names of the person in this House or in my mind I attribute any activity to individuals. Of course, you have now mentioned President Dodik, who has absolutely nothing to do with the information or with my proposals for conclusions. And if I were to go through your discussion now, so if it's not in your best interest to have this current situation resolved, and I don't buy that story to mention it, and you're going to easily recognize them, religious dignitaries, political leaders, representatives of the highest institutions, who give individual statements and additional service to the people, right here in Sarajevo. So if you won't lower the tension here in this town, and I completely agree with you that it's illusory to discuss outdated information that absolutely won't help anyone. They received knowledge, refused, no one will answer whether they were good, whether they were not, who there is in charge. But at least it was a good idea for them to sit here, so to say Mr. Sarajlić, Mr. Jovičić, I don't know, I just listed the chairman, I'm looking at you all the same, you don't need to be afraid because the state of security in BiH is like that. There is no more important political initiative, a European programme, a path, than the safety of every man, that child today in any city that goes to school, from your safety, from my safety, from our families. It is the most important theme of all possible sessions and reports. That's why I didn't intend to do it either, and don't let Bog attribute it to me in the idea that I'm making the label of any nation through individual acts of terrorists. Of course, I support that you condemn them. I'm going to be convicted, and I'm going to be convicted. And what does it mean to convict? But I've never interfered with the work of institutions. I'm asking what they're doing. Guys, couldn't anyone have wondered about that last year's laurd, where 600 vehicles and members of 30 Wahhabis are headed in Maoca. Well, that's what anyone would call their cell phone, they say, "Here they go, you sick fucks get out of here, what are you gonna do?" Does anyone in this country ask how it's possible that some Wahhabi has 47,000 euros in his pocket and they find him and he doesn't work anywhere. That's just the question we're going to open up the funding. Where's the money coming from? Well, they're not at the commercial bank or the Raiffesen Bank, so they go there and as normal citizens they raise. It surrenders from hand to hand. But we have to cut it off for our 46 security. And when we're safe, then it's easier to think about every law, change it, supplement it, and bring it. That was the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7105	The word is Niko Lozanči. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7106	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests, the debate on this agenda point, so I would say calm souls and the previous two-three, is an indication that this parliament, how the general institutions of the BiH government live outside of time and space. In one of the breaks, a reporter asked me who I was representing here. I suppose she asked some of you. Looking at our discussions and these topics that are at our debates, we can really ask ourselves the question of who we represent here. Can we after this debate because today we are discussing the state of security in BiH in 2010, and today it is half a month, '11. year, can we come in, the team we represent, no matter who we represent, tell us what the security situation in BiH is. Some of us may know something about it, but we don't have to be experts on security issues. And when the safety information appears, then there in that part of the left, I don't mean the figurative left, but the orientation, should be the leaders of all the security agencies in BiH. If they lived in accordance with time and space and we made them live accordingly, they would be there today. My impression is, but I won't give an assessment that today in BiH, the average citizen is afraid for his safety, for his family's safety. That's my assessment of layman. We don't have any information on the state of security today. We don't have any information on the security situation this year. We do not have except that those who watch TV screens or read in newspapers can hear from the media different initiatives from leaders of different security agencies in BiH that some laws are not good for them, that they will quickly propose some new laws, that these laws are a bad problem and that because of these bad laws they cannot carry out their tasks in the best possible way. They'd be smarter to come here. The laws are passed here and to say what the problem is, so that we can say the security situation in BiH for this speaker is stable, we representatives of these agencies guarantee that it is such and that no one can leave a milligram of any questionnaire on one such assessment. Today, any of us can speculate. And we will normally, since we are not experts in this region, enter what is easiest for us, in the daily political waters, and then we will start to discuss from the position of our ethnic, religious, regional and political groups, which are already other groups, which is the best ally or the best way to destabilize the security situation even more. And indeed, here I am asking myself a question, which is why I came to the end of this debate, which is what this 2010 security debate is all about today. Is it just to fill our agenda? If that's what it is, here's where we fill out the agenda. But by chance or not, it appeared at a time when the security situation in BiH is very current. So currently, everyone deals with this issue, from an average citizen through different institutions, obviously just not, here in the appropriate way, to me, we who should deal in the right way. The information itself, and I don't think it satisfies the information title content. This isn't information about the state of security. Anyway, I have no intention of criticizing who put it together. This is a collection of 47 statistical indicators on the trend of crime in 2010. And okay, but experts should give a safety assessment based on these statistical indicators. To say, to come out here responsible and to say what is the state of security. That's what we don't have in Information. And what else should, based on such a safety assessment, we should suggest to us from our domain, that's the meaning of the debate in these reports, we don't need them, we're not curious that we need to know how many burglaries, how many car thefts, murders, etc. We need security assessments and what we can do from our legislative authority to provide security agencies with tools to ensure a better level of security. We don't have those suggestions, and here's the dilemma for me when someone suggests we're not going to take this to the knowledge, and in order to even discuss this, one has to read and receive what he's read, so no matter what. This is a correct statistical report on the state of crime but certainly not information about the state of security. And from that point of view, it does not meet Parliament's needs. So here is the suggestion of one and the College of the House, I will not lecture any conclusions, to consider whether it makes sense to organise a debate on the state of security currently in BiH, and to be representatives of all security agencies at one point in the agenda, headed by the Minister of Security and to be informed and from a professional point of view here in front of parlament, in front of... the public – whether the state of security is satisfactory or not. If not, let's see how together we can fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7107	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7108	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, although this is the Security State of BiH's 2010 Security Information, although the BiH Ministry of Security does not have in its hands all possible leverages to, I would say, work decisively on the security situation in BiH, although it could be accepted that this is more a collection of information on the state of crime in BiH than information on the state of security, I think we should discuss this as the Security Information in 2010. And when we talk about this, let me put it this way, in my opinion, there's no place for politicization. There's no room for improvisation. This topic requires a serious debate and a responsible approach to this topic, because any politicization, any improvisation, can only later return to all of us as a boomerang. As Members of Parliament, we have the right and obligation to make an insight into this information, and what we should do in BiH, and that is our task and work, to make the security situation better, to be satisfactory, to be higher level, or whatever you want me to say. That is why I think that, for example, a serious debate on this subject would mean that first in the commission that is responsible for this, and later in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, we enter segment by segment of the Information. Here you have various information, starting with the security of the state border, traffic across the state border, and then the movements of crime, the movements of public order and peace, the actions of these agencies for the rule of law, or the fight against lawlessness or illegality in BiH, and each of these topics can be a special debate in front of the House of Representatives. Let's see how 48 of us operate on the state border, how traffic is going across that border, what are the problems, what are illegal immigration, what are the trends, what are trade with these people, as a global global problem, how it reflects on BiH. So these are all the topics that we really need to talk about here. I think it would be the right approach to discuss this information. I'm now taking the opportunity to say just a few data or a few facts, a few thesis, here's to hearing, to know what I'm thinking about here on these specific areas. It was very current a few years ago, and today it's very current, because unfortunately it's still a phenomenon – car theft. One year it was drastically high, the second year it fell drastically, and then it started growing again. Let's see what's causing it. That's our job. Let's call the responsible, let's call it in, so it doesn't happen again. And in that context, I understand these recommendations that have been written for the first six months of this year. What about implementation of police reform? Do we have a system that fits that? We've made the police reform the way we did, have we implemented it? Is the Coordination Directorate working for us? Are these agencies working for us? So that's the job we need to do to improve the BiH system and raise security to a higher level. What about the law? Now it's being re-imposed as an actual topic, what about the law banning the actions of fascist, neo-fascist organizations? What about banning all extremes, I think, from banning the activities of all extreme organizations that promote in their actions the threat of force or force and violence? Why haven't we adopted that in the BiH Parliament so far? These are the topics we need to open up for this. And that's why I think that we... in Parliament today should take note of the information as it is written, support the proposal of these measures and, of course, any other information we discuss I suggest we go this way in segments. The Defence Commission has yet to decide in the past term to organise a security conference in BiH every year. Everyone in BiH who deals with the security issue, from municipality to state level, participate. And it would be interesting to conclude that conference or debate with that conference to forward here to Parliament and in this context, perhaps just a little bit to modify what you have proposed, so from that conference report to deliver here to Parliament and to discuss it here in Parliament. Because the goal of what we've received as information to keep her informed is to conduct an argument and see what it is we need to do. Well, maybe we're not in charge of something. And it's certain we're not in charge of a lot of things. But there are others who are in charge. I cannot believe that some BiH entities will not take any action that is in his jurisdiction, which means improving the country's security situation. That's why this debate is important here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7109	The word has Vesna Krstović-Sprem-Smrem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7110	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all to my first address. I'm saying that so far we've had a whole series of constructive really discussion on the subject of security. I would like to make one of my small contributions to one of the topics we did not mention today, and it is very important for the security of the citizens of BiH. We all know that BiH has come out of the war, that a huge number of 49 BiH citizens suffer from various mental disorders resulting from the war. It is clear to us that the World Health Organization has alarmed that the huge number of people suffering from PTSD is post-traumatic stress syndrome, right here on BiH territory. Some projects have also been carried out in the RS and the Federation, however, the exact number of such persons is unknown. But we all know that there are really very few institutions at both entity and state level dealing with treatment, rehabilitating such persons. Not only does it mean that they are adults, but they are often meant by children who were exposed to certain psychological traumas of the victims of such diseases. Of course, we as a state Parliament would also have an obligation to deal with the laws that regulate this area, because we are all witnesses, especially medical doctors, that often laws are in conflict with the real situation and the real life situations that are happening on the ground. Namely, our laws in force say that until someone commits a certain crime, there is no way to say one psychiatric patient in time, who everyone recognizes in his environment that he is such, that he is dangerous to the environment, that he has, say, this PTSD or something else, and that he can be decompensated at any time, means to commit a crime, murder, suicide. So we're witnessing that there are murders going on here, suicides in a very large number, no one says it out loud. However, we currently have no legal opportunity to identify and say that this person is still dangerous to the environment, for all of us, he can do something against himself or other people. We should insist terribly on that. And, of course, to as many medical institutions as possible to deal with this problem. Because it's a very important question of security. So, from that category, believe that a very large number is being reduced by people who are doing acts that are against security, means their own safety, the environment in which they are located, of course, and against the state. All these other discussions, so they're really constructive and I welcome them. Of course, this is one burning question of security, without it we have nothing, if we have no security, we have nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7111	The word has Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7112	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I didn't think at all that I was involved in the debate on this topic because the agenda item bears the title of the Security Information in BiH title in 2010. And if we formally observe this item on the agenda, it may have to bear a completely different name, someone has mentioned it, perhaps some security aspects in BiH or information on the state of crime in BiH. Because for one comprehensive information on the state of security, which was spoken of by a colleague Lozančić, it is very important that the feeling, the personal feeling of every man living in BiH, is very important. Here's Lozančić says he doesn't feel safe, maybe here's to sharing that opinion all of us. But for such information on the state of security in BiH cannot only submit information to the Ministry of Security but it should take a lot of other institutions, such as the Ministry of Defence, such as the Intelligence and Security Agency, such as some law enforcement agencies, etc., to have a full picture of the state of security in BiH. And I think we should maybe have one item on the agenda: security challenges in BiH. I agree with those who say someone should tell us what security challenges are that burden the security situation in BiH and why, here, an ordinary BiH citizen does not feel safe. What's that? Is that the Wahhabi movement? Is that the Chetnik-Bravgorian movement? Is that, I don't know, politics and the underworld? No one here talked about these things today. But here, we have more than a year unformed, or 50 unimplemented election results, no Council of Ministers. Do some want to bring some of their people to certain key positions, is it conditional upon them to stop certain processes that are being conducted? How many editorial policies do they have, unfortunately, in some media influences of a particular political structure and how much contributes to the sense of uncertainty in BiH? Then, is there parallelism in the work of certain law enforcement agencies? Here's what I'm saying. Of course, I can't discuss the subject right now, but I'm willing to discuss it if we have such a agenda point. To update the data, which is why and who is actually pushing for this type of activity in BiH. And of course, based on all these indicators, we will conclude that security is indivisible and that it cannot be shared by entities or, I don't know, municipal, or cantonal borders, and that legal regulations do not contribute to the creation of a positive environment, or sense of security in BiH. Therefore, those who have said that certain laws are not right for us, just say so at press conferences when something happens. Why aren't they saying that right here? Here's the place. And here you see, we don't even have a chance to give, send a message to those who need to take care of the sense of security in BiH. It's not just the Ministry of Security, of course. I see their representative, but other agencies, or, I don't know, other ministries. So I think that this information is what it is and we can take it to the knowledge or, as someone says, I don't want to take it to the knowledge, but that sense of security of every man, so an individual sense of security is a very important category. And of course, there's no information that can contribute to that feeling in a normal person being better than it is right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7113	I'm closing the debate on item 14 of the agenda. Before we move to the 15th item of the agenda, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 15 to 24 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I invite you to prepare for the vote. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Vote, now! I konstatirati this proposal a conclusion has received the necessary majority, and it has been unanimous. Before we open the debate on points 15 to 24, I would like to remind you that we have received the opinion of the Commission responsible for external affairs on ratification consent. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. There is. My colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7114	I know everyone's prepared for the end of the session, so just for a little while. So yesterday we had one debate on the Commission and pointed out the fact that BiH was in debt and the way this borrowing goes, so you can see two terms in these agreements. Once it was about a favourable loan, where the finance ministry couldn't explain to us what a favourable loan it was, all I know is that all the loans they had buried in Greece were called favourable loans. And from where, I'd like someone to explain to me the termology of 'a favourable loan', and in one agreement there's a 'non-refundable loan'. For as long as I've known about myself, the loan has always been something that comes back. And then those qualifications, those ravings about having it all gone, then all of a sudden we're all surprised when we have an external debt to BiH. But even 51 termologies have adapted to us falling down to the task of each type of credit! I don't think a single loan can be close enough today. That's why we didn't get an explanation, and it's my only warning of such things that our usual relationship to ratification of the agreement is probably going to change, and we're going to have to start looking at what's going on there, because that number is increasing in each of those agreements, it's all going to be between 2 and 20 million, and the story is extra about how it's good and how it's going to be, but when we asked if you're reading small letters, so, you know, in small letters, it says that you can take the equipment from that and that state that they're making their own products through that credit place here and stuff. And so it is, but it can't even stand a qualification of'sponsored' and can't stand a qualification of 'non-refundable loan'. If something's asking me to pay back, he can write a loan. It's our right to take or not take credit, and it's our right to give our own terms, but to make me an idiot, in the way it's all extra, I don't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7115	I'm closing the debate. The college decided we'd vote at 14.45 p.m. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to prepare for your vote. We are moving to vote on the first item of the agenda adoption of the minutes of the 12th session I invite you to prepare for the vote and vote on the minutes of the 12th session. I agree that we unanimously adopted the 12th session of the House of Representatives. There should be 29 MPs in the O.R. right now, and there were more of us at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7117	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7118	Well, don't, ask, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7119	This point 4. Proposal for a law on international and inter-entity road traffic?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7120	Yeah. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7121	Are we voting on that proposed conclusion by the Commission or on the draft law?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7122	We vote on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7123	Reports from the Commission to come to...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7124	That conclusion that it is delayed, that it is returning, a joint discussion That you're doing a new one?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7126	So don't take a break, there's someone here to be here in a minute or two, let them come. Come on, try to bring them in here. Here comes Mr. Bojić... We continue with the vote, we approach the vote on item 3. We will vote first in the second round on amendments, amendment or amendments to Members Dušanka Majkić, and amandman XI.., amandman XIII., amandman XIV.. and amandman XV.. The Proposer agrees that in the package we should make a statement. Okay. I call upon you to.................................................................. [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7130	It doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7131	But it doesn't matter he didn't get, there's a "no" vote, yeah. So this amendment didn't get the necessary majority. We vote right now in the second round on amandman XIII.. Please prepare yourselves. Vote, now! There's no general majority. This proposal did not receive the required majority. We're going to vote in the second round on amandaman XIV.. Vote, now! There's no general majority. I realize this proposal didn't get the right majority either. And we're voting in the second round on amandman XV. MP Dušanka Majkić. Vote, now! We don't have the necessary general majority. I find that this proposal has not received the necessary majority and has not been accepted. Now we're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. If you could just take this part of the platform and focus on the vote. All right. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Vote, now! There is a necessary general majority, there is no necessary entity majority. _________(?) I'd be in the second round if I could. _________(?) Can you repeat the vote, please? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7132	No need, we'll confirm that now. _________(?) We want another right away... 54
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7133	kolega Ljubić, we're going to the second round right now. Is there a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7134	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7135	Let's try the second circle, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7136	Prepare to vote and vote now in the second round. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let's hear it for a second! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7142	The conclusion of the Commission...
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7143	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7144	In addition to this conclusion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7145	No, this is point four. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7146	The Commission adopted its conclusions and directs the House of Representatives to adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7147	Report, on the Commission's report?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7149	And that's the next 5th state aid. You've moved it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7150	I didn't move, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7151	Is he okay? 56
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7152	The conclusion is: 'The House of Representatives is asking the Council of Ministers to... refer to the parliamentary procedure a new bill.'
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7153	Okay, is that contained in this?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7154	He has now fallen, now the bill has fallen, the report has been accepted and now has this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7155	Yeah, yeah, well, this isn't it, it's not listed here. Shall we take this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7156	We will, yes, yes, we must. Did the report drop?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7157	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7158	Well, yeah, the bill fell.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7159	Let's go, shall we, this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7161	Please prepare to make a statement on the following conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer a new draft law on international and inter-entity road transport which will be in line with EU legislation as soon as possible.' Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! Okay, we've got both general and entity majority, we've accepted. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the state aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the law in the first reading) We should vote today on whether, in the second round on the bill proposal, however, we got this conclusion from MP Drago Kalabić. Should I read it one more time? You don't need, familiar, or SNSD. 57 Please prepare to vote on the SNSD's Opinion. Vote, now! We have the necessary and general and entity majority. The proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) First we vote on the Law Proposal in the first reading. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we adopted the bill in the first reading. We will now declare the proposal for a conclusion by Aleksandra Pandurević. I urge you to prepare for the vote and vote now! For 15, 19 against, we don't have the necessary general majority. The proposal for a conclusion was not accepted. As far as the proposal for the conclusion of MP Milorad Živković is concerned, we have already agreed, so colleague Živković has determined that this conclusion in some way suggests when this is in another reading. Right? Okay. Moving to the 7th item of the agenda: Proposal for a framework law on the establishment of a joint register of NGOs in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Vote now! Framework, summation and joint. We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority. Shall we go straight to round two or later? We'll agree later as the College. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in first reading. Vote, now! I find that we unanimously adopted the bill in our first reading. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: The decision on the participation of a group of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces instructors in the International Security Assistance Force operation to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 58 We are voting here on the adoption of the Decision. I urge you to prepare for the vote and vote now! It'd be interesting here to see if anyone's "sustained." 30 'for', seven'remained'. I realize we've adopted this decision. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Report on the activities on the project "Autoput to Corridor 5c" and the plan of the next activities Report of the Commission on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for conclusions 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Commission Opinion on Transport and Communications for the discussion of the Report on activities on the project "Autoput to Corridor 5c" and the plan of the next activities you have received. We vote first, therefore, in the second round on the Proposal for Conclusions 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the opinion of the Transport and Communication Commission. Vote, now! We have the necessary general majority, we don't have the necessary entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7162	Not adopted, adopted, this is the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7163	And adopted, that this is the second round, we have no "against." You're right. So this is adopted. We are now voting on the adoption of the Report on activities on the project "The Highway on Corridor 5c" and the plan of the next activities. Prepare to vote and vote, now! Are we gonna do it again? We have the necessary general majority, but we don't have the necessary entity majority here. In the second round. I invite you to prepare to vote in the second round. Vote, now! Okay. The report received the required majority in the second round, so we can determine that it was adopted. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: Report on realized permits for arms, military equipment and dual-use products for 2008. We are voting on a proposal for conclusions from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, a total of five conclusions. After that, we'll also vote on the report. 59 Shall we vote this in a package? We will. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7164	We're for conclusions, we're for reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7165	Oh, no, no, now.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7166	We can't vote in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7167	No, no, the conclusions, yes. 'In 28, 'against' three, we have the necessary entity majority, the conclusions are adopted. We're voting now on the adoption of the report. I urge you to prepare for the vote and vote now! We have the general majority we need, and we have the entity. I understand we adopted the report. We move to the 12th point of the agenda, again we vote on the Opinion of Conclusions, firstly, so these five conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! For 28, three counters, four abstentions, we have the required majority. We're going to vote on the adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote, now!
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7168	Please, can you repeat the vote... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7169	Wait a minute. At the request of the SDS Club, we will repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Are you ready to vote? Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have accepted the report. 60 We move to point 13. If we can continue, then point 13. Information on the resolution of surplus weapons, ammunition and mine-explosive assets of the Armed... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I don't understand you. I don't understand what you're saying. It doesn't work, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's broken, it's
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7173	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7174	... I have 26 points.
ParlaMint-BA_2011-11-10-0.u7175	So if you'd like to leave, then we'll agree later. Now, I suggest you pay attention, I hope you don't want to vote for another hour. I suggest that we vote first on all agreements between points 15 and 24 in the package. Vote on this conclusion now. I find that we have accepted this conclusion. We are now voting on granting consent to ratifying the agreement from point 15 to point 24. Vote, now! I find that, it seems unanimous, that we have accepted, therefore, and agreed to ratify these agreements. I would like to point out that the next 14th session of the House of Representatives will be held on 24 November 2011. Thank you for your cooperation, and this concludes today's session. The seat is closed at 3:21.
