ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u4	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1949, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1168. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general discussion and replies of the rapporteur, Mr Casson, and the representative of the Government took place. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft legislation under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u11	CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, I use these minutes that we have before we can start voting, briefly taking into account the meaning of the amendments that we have tabled as co-rapporteurs. They refer to integrations and forecasts of international conventions related to our Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular the transitional rules, those of implementation and coordination, for the part concerning the possibility of teleconferences or video conferences with audiovisual systems, when it comes to hearing foreign people both in Italy and possibly as far as we are concerned in foreign countries. Within our legal system we already have a set of rules for the implementation of the criminal procedure, Articles 146-a, 147-a and 205-b, which refer to both the persons held, the persons charged, the experts and the witnesses. We believe that the reference, first of all contained in the two amendments that we are presenting to international conventions, is our first guiding point. Moreover, since we have a greater competence and experience in this field than many foreign countries have in relation to audiovisual systems and videoconferences, we believe that it is appropriate to refer in part to the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure which already provide for the holding of hearings, transcriptions and recordings in accordance with the mechanisms we know very well. In this sense, it seems useful to us to refer in particular to Article 205-b of the implementing rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure which provide for all situations, including for the accused, both in the ordinary case that can happen and, that is, that of a state of detention, but also in the case where the accused person is - for example - in a state of illness that does not allow its transport. That is why this reference must be made. If we were to stop at international conventions, we would at the moment leave an interpretative space, and also of formulation and, then, of application of the norm. With regard in particular to amendment 4.202, it refers to the powers of the Minister of Justice to ensure, in the cases and in the manner provided for by law, compliance with the conditions required in particular cases for enforcement abroad or in the territory of the State of the judgment of which recognition has been sought; it is obvious that here, in particular in point (f), number 3, the specification concerns the need for there to be no conflict with the fundamental principles of the legal order of the State. Finally, Amendment 4,203 refers to a distinction that we make between judgments and other judicial decisions. We also refer, with a proposal for inclusion, also with regard to Article 4 (1) (e), because in one case we are talking about states of the European Union and, in the other case, non-EU states. It is necessary in both cases that guarantees are secured for the persons, for the accused and, in a broader concept, we assume everything under the concept and purpose of judicial guarantee. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So we also got the rapporteur's opinion on Amendment 3,200. CASSON, Rapporteur. We have only illustrated a few of the amendments and we must conclude with that of the amendments to Article 3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Only amendment 3,200 was tabled to Article 3. CASSON, Rapporteur. There is a proposal for rewording, but the rapporteur's opinion on Amendment 3,200 is obviously in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the Government to comment on the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u12	On Amendment 3,200 with the proposed rewording, the opinion was in favour. However, I would ask the Presidency to suspend the work for a few minutes, because I would like to reflect on the rewording, perhaps adding the words 'and also taking into account what is planned'.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u13	Would you like to propose a new rewording? CHIAVAROLI, State Secretary for Justice. I would like to agree with the rapporteur that the amendment has been reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u14	Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9:46 a.m. and resumed at 10:01 a.m.) Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u15	Mr President, the rewording tends to include the word "also" before the words "held account" and the text of the amendment reads as follows: "In paragraph 1, in point (d), replace the words " telephone conference in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the Convention" by the following: "according to the provisions of Title II of the Convention and also taking into account the provisions of Article 205-b of the implementing, coordinating and transitional provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure". PRESIDENT. - The debate is The text has been distributed to the senators. I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u16	The Government gives a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u20	[[Senator Airola's microphone activates by mistake]] AIROLA (M5S). 123 suspects today is the number... [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u21	Senator Airola, you asked Senator Santangelo to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u22	I ask technicians to intervene on the audio system. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). There must have been a line problem. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, what did you ask to intervene for? SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. To avoid misunderstandings, I ask you now and until the end of the parliamentary term. So, Mr President, always look at me before you put an amendment to the vote and I will always be ready and diligent in asking for an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u23	The all-inclusive request cannot be made, but it must be made at a time. I have no interest in boycotting your request, Senator Santangelo, but it takes the synchronism of the times. In the previous vote I gave the electronic vote, although the request for it was probably out of time. SANTANGELO (M5S). To his good heart! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,200 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Casson. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which a proposal for deletions and amendments have been tabled, and which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u24	Mr President, it seems to me that there is a gigantic question of principle behind amendment 42.01, which I would like the House to become aware of in view of the time when we are going to vote. The rule contained in the draft law concerns any prosecutor of the Italian Republic. We speak, that is, of dozens and dozens of prosecutors of the Republic, first of all of great prosecutors, like Milan, but I can also think of prosecutors like that of Larino, who has been infamously known in the past for the most extravagant initiatives of his chief prosecutor, with arrests and investigations later ended up in thin air. Any prosecutor of the Republic, according to this text, may agree with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union or other States, if provided for by international agreements, the establishment of joint investigation teams. Therefore, Larino's prosecutor can agree independently, with France or Germany, the establishment of joint investigation teams. If provided for by international agreements, this can also happen with authorities other than those of the Member States of the European Union and, therefore, with any other country in the world, perhaps with the Libyan authority or some rogue country of the world; in this case the prosecutor must give only communication to the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, a prosecutor of the Republic can independently agree, with a foreign sovereign state, the establishment of joint investigation teams, must not seek permission from anyone and is free to make agreements with member countries of the European Union or with any other country of the world, regardless of the quality of its democracy, simply communicating it to the Minister of Justice. In our amendment 4.201, however, we expect that the prosecutor of the Republic can carry out these activities only with the permission of the Minister of Justice. In all European countries these events are rightly under the control of Parliament: Parliament controls the Government and the Minister must respond politically to its actions. On the other hand, we make a synallagma between any prosecutor of the Republic and a sovereign State - of course the prosecutors of the Republic are under the control of no one - we equal every prosecutor of the Republic with a sovereign State and even allow him to make these agreements even with States outside the European Union, without the permission of the Minister. There must then be cultural, political and moral prejudice, so the Minister of a democratic country like Italy, whoever is in office, is less reliable than any prosecutor of the Republic. Otherwise we do not understand why, in a democratic state, it is not the Minister of Justice who authorizes the establishment of joint investigation teams that, if I understand correctly, will ensure that from a country of Africa or Asia people will arrive who will start to investigate with ours. Three years ago, the case of a foreign citizen who was extradited abroad caused a great stir: it was not clear whether it was the responsibility of the Minister, the prosecutor or the police. A national scandal arose, because it was said that the Minister was informed anyway and the chief of staff had to resign. Now we give every prosecutor the opportunity to set up joint investigation teams that come to investigate in our country, in collaboration with our police bodies. In theory they can also come from Libya or from a faction, because there is talk of authorities from other countries, or from any other country with which Italy has relations or contacts, without prior authorization from the Ministry and the competent Minister. It seems to me a further confirmation of a drift in which Parliament abdicates to the fundamental principles of democracy in force in all European countries, to delegate very delicate functions, without any political control, to all prosecutors of the Republic insisting on the territory. I realise that this amendment will hardly be accepted, but it is good that it remains in Parliament's memory that, while there is a whole public debate on the relationship between politics and the judiciary, the judiciary that makes the laws and the judiciary that replaces Parliament, the judiciary will now also assume powers that, in all democratic countries, are donated to the Commission. And it will be assigned to the autonomy of every prosecutor of the Republic the faculty to form joint investigative teams with investigators from other countries. This seems to me to be a further path towards a drift of confusion between the powers of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u25	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u26	Mr President, first of all I would like to call for the withdrawal of the proposal for the deletion of S4.1, to which Senator Mussini is first a signatory. If this proposal had any significance, certainly political, when the text came to the examination of the Commissions later, even with the adoption of several amendments (both of the majority and of the opposition) the wording, as evidenced by the text of Article 4, can satisfy the requirements initially indicated. So there is a call for withdrawal, otherwise I am against it. It is in favour of amendment 4.9, because the wording provided by a reasoned decree without delay is certainly more precise than the original text. In the Commission, we had reserved the right to consider the matter for the work of this House and we believe that this amendment gives the prosecutor of the Republic the opportunity to intervene in a positive way and to give a negative response. So, I repeat, I am in favour of it. In Amendment 4,200 I would like to make a few formal points: the amendment therefore retains its structure, but small changes are made to it, which I shall now indicate. In the fifth line, where reference is made to the audiovisual link, these words are replaced by the following: To the next line, where it is said:... the terms of usability taking into account what is expected... between "usability" and "tenuto" shall be inserted the word "also" and then the phrase would become: "useability conditions" also taking into account what is expected." The third formal clarification is on the end of the amendment: where the implementing, coordinating and transitional provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are referred to, it is necessary to add the code of criminal procedure to the remote participation of the accused. This formal rewording naturally gives a favourable opinion. If Amendment 4,200 (text 2) were adopted, Amendment 4,20 would be absorbed and I therefore call for its withdrawal. With regard to Senator Giovanardi's amendment 4.201, I would point out to the Assembly that the joint investigation teams already exist, are a fundamental instrument of investigation throughout Europe and have been adopted, following the law of the Italian Parliament just two years ago, with implementing legislative decrees by the Government. They are therefore already in operation and concern the Member States of the European Union. We have taken extra care because, when it comes to European investigative teams that do not refer to the States of the European Union, the Minister intervenes with the communication of the agreement formulated, precisely because it is in the awareness of everyone what happens with reference to the joint investigation teams. So in this sense the opinion is against it. Amendment 4.202 contains clarifications referring to the fundamental principles of the legal order of the State and I naturally support it. To Amendment 4,203, which refers to the judicial guarantee that I spoke about in the illustration just now, I would like to mention a single formal addition, since I intend to add, after the words 'letter (e) ', to the wording:'solo (solo) ', so the wording would be as follows: 'for the purposes of the judicial guarantee' alone. The opinion, of course, is also in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u27	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u28	I put to the vote the proposal to delete S4.1, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.9, tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,200 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Casson. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.20 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 4,200 (text 2). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u31	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the rapporteur who informs us that the operating teams already exist, at least on a European scale. Moreover, if I understood correctly, he also told us that they would still be authorized by a speech by the Minister of Justice, but that is not the case. On the other hand, the text provides for the burden of communicating to the Minister of Justice, so it is not the same at all. This gives rise to the possibility, at the risk of a blatant degrammatication from the constitutional point of view, of the wording provided for in the amendment under consideration. In our constitutional system, the Minister of Justice has a role to play, not in order to harm the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, but because, for example, an international role, an external role, therefore in any democracy related to parliamentary control, steps for the Minister of Justice. In our constitutional order there is a condition that makes the Minister of Justice (think of his prerogatives in terms of exercising disciplinary action) certainly a colleague of the other Ministers, but particularly aimed at protecting the democratic order. In the event that we do not come to the wording suggested in amendment 4.201 and make the arguments of the text our own, we would find a constitutional system which would provide for an infinity of international prerogatives on the part of well-known prosecutors who, until proven otherwise, are magistrates, but judicial officials on whom Parliament would not (justly) have any prerogative. That is why it seems to me that the passage of the Minister of Justice's prior authorisation, which - I repeat - is not currently provided for (only the communication) is a protection of the constitutional aspects of our parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u34	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to draw everyone's attention to this amendment, and not just to that. The members of the Commission are aware that our Group has made a strong contribution to this measure by moving in the same direction as the rapporteur, with a number of amendments that have been accepted or absorbed precisely because we had the same interpretative line. Our position, not only in this point (as Senator Giovanardi did today with the amendment) but also in other points of the bill, was in favour of the power of authorisation by the Minister of Justice. Look, it's not a political issue (I'd be surprised if we were to vote for different groups on a hypothetical basis), but it's an institutional reason. As you all know, in Europe, as in almost all the world, the Minister of Justice has the power over all the organs of the prosecutor; he has powers that in our country they want to move in favour only of the magistrate, who has no political responsibility. But here, correctly, we have introduced not only respect for the general principles of law, but the principles of reciprocity with the other States. Now, that the Democratic Party, normally attentive to constitutional and institutional issues, is in favour of a solution such as the one provided for in the draft law because probably some magistrates push in that direction, I think it is a mistake. I must acknowledge that the rapporteur, in the Commission, had said that he had withdrawn the amendments (I had formulated three on this point), because there was a need to find a solution and to reflect, because the Government (but I did not understand whether the Minister Orlando or the legislative office of the Ministry of Justice, made up of magistrates) had an indication contrary to this solution. Coming to the specific amendment, for European countries we even say that the Minister should not even be informed. But do you realize that in France there is discretion in prosecution and dependence on the Minister of Justice? And that also in Germany, where there is the obligatory prosecution, the magistrates, even if they can pass, as in Italy, from the judicial function to the requisitioning function, even when they carry out requisitioning functions depend on the Minister of Justice? And we don't even predict an indication, an information to our Minister. Even with non-European countries we would only give a communication to the Minister. So for countries like the United States of America or Asia (e.g. Oman) what will our Republic Attorney do? He goes to talk to the Minister of Justice of those countries with an enormous degree of responsibility. I therefore ask that, before voting on the amendment, not only should there be a reflection, but that the rapporteur, in whom I trust, intervenes on the Government - and not only on this - so that, bearing in mind what we said in the Commission, these aspects can be corrected here and that the Minister should have the power to authorise and not be merely informed - in international relations this has always happened - and therefore that there is a defence of the institutions of our country. [[Applause from Senator Romani Paolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u37	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I confirm the vote in favour. I am sorry for the rapporteur, because we must be honest intellectually: the text does not speak of European countries. Mr Caliendo has rightly pointed out that the Minister of Justice knows absolutely nothing about the agreements between European prosecutors and sovereign states because he must not be notified of anything and this is already a gigantic anomaly, but in the case of non-European countries the text that will be voted on, if the majority will accept it, states that the prosecutor will give notice of the agreement. The rapporteur says that the Minister of Justice will then intervene, but the Minister will not intervene at all because the only burden that the prosecutor who has entered into an agreement, for example with China, will be to inform the Minister. Is it possible for such a synallagma to be built, which is a gigantic constitutional fracture? Since when can the prosecutors of the Republic make, each of them, international politics and establish to make joint investigation teams also on our territory, without any control by the political power, the government and Parliament? It seems to me that a minimum of reasonableness should lead to a review of this rule, which is worse than the original situation. First we talked, at least, about European countries. When a country enters the Union, in fact, at least there is a certain guarantee, but here we extend this possibility to the whole world. Therefore, I would also invite the rapporteur and the House to reflect before voting against this amendment, which simply puts everything on the tracks of democracy and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u40	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would ask the rapporteur for a rewording that limits this autonomy only and exclusively to countries belonging to the European Union because, in fact, I find Mr Giovanardi's assessments acceptable. If this rewording is not done, I declare that my vote on Amendment 4,201 will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u43	CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, I will try to explain, albeit briefly, why this forecast was presented in the draft law by the Government in particular, then also the supplementary amendment that the Commissions 2a and 3a have tabled and I will also try to clarify - probably before I did not explain well in the proper summary - what these joint investigation teams are. First of all, they are not operational teams, but joint investigation teams provided for by European international law and the Italian State. I mention in particular, with regard to the Member States of the European Union, the Framework Decision of 13 June 2002. Following that decision, which dates back to fourteen years ago, we had to adopt rules of our national law for the training and forecasting of these joint investigation teams, according to the indications that came from this framework decision. This was not done in the immediacy of most European states, so much so that in 2005 another framework decision, again of the European Union, was taken, dated 23 August 2005, which required Member States to adopt this common investigative instrument within the Member States of the European Union. At present, since last year, all the Member States of the European Union had adopted this instrument of investigation; the last remaining was the Italian State, which had not provided. In this legislature there has been a legislative intervention by Parliament (last, in particular, a legislative decree of 15 February 2016, therefore a short time ago), passed obviously through the parliamentary committees as far as competence, which also adopted for Italy the instrument of the joint investigation teams, with particular reference to a whole series of serious crimes, such as the fight against terrorism and major organised crime. Let us all remember - including the People of Freedom with whom we have worked in the Commission - that there was a warning earlier this year, precisely because of the serious terrorist criminal events, which had led, even from the regulatory point of view, to an acceleration of the legislative procedures still in progress. Therefore, we have simply adapted our domestic law to the binding forecasts of the European Union. This is indicated in the first part of this rule, which also reiterates in this draft law what it is about: we follow the criteria laid down by the European Union. The directives must be applied as they are, and we have done what the European Union has to do. There is also a second situation which concerns countries outside the European Union. What did the rule initially proposed by the Government foresee in that case? If there are international agreements - I stress - signed by Italy (so voted by the Italian Parliament and in force) to which the Italian State must submit for the principle of rules of primary rank compared to those of subsequent rank, joint investigation teams can also be carried out for non-European States. This indication was reiterated by the Government and by this bill at first instance. As Committees for Justice and Foreign Affairs of the Senate, we have taken on board this issue and we have foreseen one more, in the sense that this must be communicated to the Minister of Justice when it comes to formulations and agreements with States other than those of the European Union, obviously as far as the Minister is concerned. This communication has therefore been included, written in accordance with European law and international law.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u46	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I listened carefully to the speech by the rapporteur, Mr Casson. This is not a question of the constitution and operation of the joint investigation teams, but of the authority which has the power to intervene in relation to this constitution. According to the concept expressed by Senator Casson, jurisdiction lies with the judicial authority, which can substantially enter into agreements with corresponding authorities of other States for such a constitution. Senator Caliendo, just now, pointed out to the House how this wording would, in the abstract, allow one of the 126, if I recall correctly, prosecutors of the Republic in Italy to take, for example, a direct agreement with the American Minister of Justice, being obviously the Attorney General, that is, the American Minister of Justice, the authority competent to the joint investigation teams. You cannot fail to understand how unbalanced this situation is; for example, the prosecutor of the Republic of Larino - with all due respect - could form, in agreement with the American Minister of Justice, a common investigative team. Having said that, as we are talking about states other than the European Union, I open and close a parenthesis: the French Minister of Justice can block the establishment of joint investigation teams under the national law implementing the conventions referred to by Senator Casson. The problem then is this; if the constitution of the joint investigation teams, for whatever reason, not necessarily known to the aforementioned prosecutor of the Republic of Larino, can question and in crisis the requirements of national security, can the government authority in any way interloquire? Can this possibility of intercourse - which seems to me to be inspired exclusively by common sense - be satisfied with mere communication? What good is it, Senator Casson, to give notice to the Minister of Justice, if, by reason of this communication, it is not possible for the Minister of Justice to intervene? Since we live in this country and we know that the Minister of Justice will hardly deny an authorization, if this denial should be instrumental for reasons that are not solid, I believe then that affirming, as is done in amendment 4,201, "after authorization of the Minister of Justice," in my opinion would make the norm definitely operational, but certainly more appropriate to those that are the general principles of our order, recalled a moment ago by Senator Compagna. In other words, it is asked that under conditions of absolute reciprocity with other countries, including those of the European Union (because France, as I mentioned before, allows the Minister of Justice to block the joint investigative teams), we proceed to the constitution of the joint investigative teams (and therefore also the prosecutor of the Republic of Larino can, in hypothesis, constitute with the American Minister of Justice these joint investigative teams), provided however that the Italian Minister of Justice is first made aware of what is happening and authorizes, as is normal, such constitution. This is in a nutshell the problem. I really cannot understand the reason why - except for that, a little behind-the-clock, which Senator Caliendo mentioned when speaking of a lobbyist attitude of the magistrates - not so much the rapporteur does not express his favourable opinion on this amendment, but above all does not the representative of the Government. But, in short, at the time when this constitution of joint investigation teams was to be put in place with problems relevant to the security of this country, do you think the prosecutor of Larino or the Minister of Justice will respond? Do you really think that on such a delicate system the Government and the Minister of Justice must adopt the policy of the ostrich, putting their heads on the ground, and then defending themselves, if anything should ever happen, saying that at the end of the day they knew nothing about it and that the communication was given to them only later? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The government is silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u47	No, the Government has already given its assent to that of the rapporteur. If the government representative wants to take the floor, Senator Palma, he's free to ask for it and take it. It seems to me, however, that the Government, with its silence, confirms the conformity with the contrary opinion, despite the appeals and also in the light of the intervention of the rapporteur. I therefore call on Senator Giovanardi to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.201. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.202 tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Casson. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.203 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Casson. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u50	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to point out to the Presidency that I mistakenly voted in favour of Article 4, while my vote was against, not even abstaining. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take due note of that. I'll put it to a vote...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u53	AIROLA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you must be timely in your requests. AIROLA (M5S). Come on, you're standing there clicking all day...
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u54	Easy, partner. The electronic vote must be requested at the appropriate time. In any case, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request, although late, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] . (The request is supported). AIROLA (M5S). He's coming to be precise. To be precise you have to be precise! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u57	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we have had 14 votes so far and there is a record in the first row, which does not correspond to the presence of a senator. There's gonna be so many more. Since you're so precise, I invite you to have her removed and take the disciplinary action of the case... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's right. Thanks for the report. I beg the Senators Secretary to proceed with the withdrawal of the card, which I also see. SANTANGELO (M5S). ...since, outside these buildings, when you stamp while you are absent you lose your job, while here it is not so. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u58	It is not the same, but he is right in his observation. I ask Senator Secretary Scoma to withdraw the card in the first row and to proceed to a further visual check if there are other posts in similar condition. (Senator Scoma goes to the desks to check the voting positions.) AIROLA (M5S). Din don! Investigated update: PD has 124 suspects. [[Protests from the PD Group]] I ask the offices to verify Senator Airola's microphone and to verify why it's the second time it's turned on. It cannot be a mistake, because if it were so it would have its relevance: there seems to be an abuse in the use of the mechanism. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Scoma lost his chance to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Scoma was present, but he had gone to his office.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u65	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I do not think it is acceptable that the word should be given surreptitiously to those who have not asked for it, simply by manifesting a technical error. This is the third time this has happened and this must not happen! [[Live Senator Airola's comments]] AIROLA (M5S). I'm still talking. Make an exhibit! [[Protests from the PD Group]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). And no, not the third time!
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u66	He is right and more than having checks on the operation of the plants I cannot do. It is a matter that makes me suspicious: no one has given the floor to Senator Airola and, as we control the cards, I ask the Secretaries to verify what happened, because everything needs to be verified. AIROLA (M5S). You're the shame of the Senate, Buemi! You're the shame of all of us. [[Senator Buemi's lively comments.]] I'm calling Senator Airola to order. [[Live comments from Senator Cardinals]] Mr Caleo (PD). Viva Buemi! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u69	[[Brusio]] Take courage, Senator, you're a skilled speaker. IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, first of all I am obliged to thank the two rapporteurs, Senator Sangalli and Senator Casson, Vice-President of the Democratic Party's Justice Commission, for the work we have done and for finally, for the first time, we have found two interlocutors with whom we have been able to reason and see the demands of the opposition met: there has been a frank debate in which we have finally had the opportunity to be heard by the rapporteurs. I now come to the content. The draft law that we are examining today in the Senate is based on the assumption, clarified in its original introductory report, of the inadequacy of the current legal system of judicial assistance, against a crime, especially organised crime, which has extended its scope far beyond the borders of the territory of a single State and which knows well how to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by the globalization of markets and new technologies of communication and information management. The text, working on several action plans consisting of the ratification of international agreements, a proposal for legislative delegation and a direct amendment to certain rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, concerns cooperation and judicial assistance in combating criminal phenomena. The fruitful work carried out in the Commission has meant that the aspects of criticality and regulatory dystonia present in the text fired by the House can also be considered obsolete thanks to the contribution of the amending proposals that, as the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, we have brought into the Commission and that the rapporteurs, in many cases, have made their own. In particular, I would like to stress that the text we are voting on has accepted our requests for the necessary respect for the fundamental principle of reciprocity in requests for judicial assistance and extradition, with particular regard to non-EU countries, where this condition or similar guarantees may not be governed by international agreements. In the same way as I welcome the adoption of another amendment of ours aimed at setting precise parameters under which the competent judicial authority will decide whether or not to accept the request for legal assistance. These criteria are those provided by Article 724, fifth paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, for the refusal of execution of the letters with reference to the compatibility of the request for assistance with the principles of the legal order of the State and with the criminal law to the absence of persecutory prejudices against the accused who has not given his consent. I conclude with the change made to the novella in the matter of extradition where, in compliance with the fundamental principles of our legal system, the principle of double-counting has been inserted, under which we cannot be extradited for something that in our country does not constitute criminal law. This will prevent people from being accused of crimes that they did not even know existed because many conducts - including, for example, so-called opinion crimes - can be assessed differently in different jurisdictions. In view of these considerations, I declare the Group of Conservatives and Reformists to vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi, Comaroli and Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u72	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are faced with a very complex and particularly technical measure, which addresses the major issues relating to the application of internal and international rules to combat crime. The highest clothing a criminal organization can take is that which allows it to act beyond the state borders and when, unfortunately, crime extends like a stain, involving the territory of several states, it becomes a disease capable of polluting and causing disease from within the state systems themselves. In this way, criminality can only be combated through cooperation. From this point of view, a measure such as this is a good one, on which the support of the Group of the North Legacy will be voted in advance, although, as has already been pointed out by some Members in general debate, it is regrettable that the Convention dates back to 2000 and that ratification will be achieved after all these years. This shows how difficult it is to transpose European rules into national law. This difficulty can only be overcome through a great dialogue and deep cooperation, not only in terms of judicial assistance, but also through diplomatic cooperation. We must remember, however, that in order to combat crime and these virulent forms, which are present within our society, we must necessarily go through collaboration and cooperation between States, which becomes mutual aid also under the profiles set out and illustrated in the Convention and its law of ratification. It is in fact a cooperation that concerns the level of investigation, through the investigation teams, the recognition of judgments and all procedures related to extradition. These are necessary steps in order to create a real barrier against crime. But what we must always remember is that, in order to promote this type of cooperation, state borders must never become a barrier to the fight against crime: the refuge in another state must never be a form of impunity. From this point of view, what has been pointed out by the rapporteurs themselves is very important, with regard to the amendment of the text in the Commission concerning the principle of reciprocity. It is important that all states cooperate and the principle of reciprocity is a stimulus for real cooperation, which must never be just one-sided. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that measures such as this are important, but it would be of no use if serious and rigorous criminal law were not put in place within the State in the fight against crime. Instead, we denounce what has been done by the government in office and by what immediately preceded it, through a set of measures that we have defined as empty prisons and that have allowed to grant, within our State, forms of benefits in order to prevent the imprisonment from being the main mode of execution of the sentence, also determining positions by the police that at this point are disarmed, because they have no rules at their disposal that allow them to carry out a serious fight against crime. These very days, in the House of Members, we are discussing rules on self-defence, which have been completely frustrated by the changes made in the Commission, which we hope will be overturned in this House. This is not how crime is combated: it is useless to make proclamations, with rules like this, that seem to be shared by everyone, if then within the state there is no serious and effective legislation. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli]] That is why we will always vote for the measures that involve a real and serious fight against crime and we will always vote against all those measures that will bring benefits to the criminals. We do not want to think that there should be inhumane penalties and we do not want to think of prisons as some sort of inhuman world, which can undermine the principles that affect people. But, gentlemen, if you are not a serious state in terms of justice, if justice is not credible, a state becomes no longer credible. So let us renew our explanation of vote in favour of this measure, but constantly appealing to the Government and the majority, so that they change the rules and really fight the phenomena of crime that afflict our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u75	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I rise to declare my Group abstaining because of the vulnus generated by the vote on an amendment which we believe is fundamental, because the text of the draft law, at that point, undermines the principles of the rule of law and violates our Constitution. The amendment was tabled by opposition forces who chose to compete with the majority, in a relationship of loyal cooperation, to suggest that it was the Minister of Justice who authorised the establishment of joint investigation teams. The Minister of Justice, apparently, is an expression of a government in office and is an expression of that part of Parliament which rejected the amendment. Of course there is a fundamental political problem. President Renzi came here to tell us, the other day, a whole series of beautiful things about justice, but the reality is before everyone's eyes: the judicial policy of the majority, the government and the PD, the glory of them, the Casson and Lumia colleagues do it. It is clear that the Government is Casson-Lumia traction. The legislative product that comes out of the Justice Commission and Parliament, from street murder to environmental disaster, to the speech of the prescription, is exactly the reverse of what the President-in-Office of the Council tells us. It is clear that this is a fundamental problem, which even goes beyond Parliament and the executive power, in order to give more power to the magistrates, as today's vote has shown. For these reasons, although we share a large part of the content of this bill, we express our abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u78	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will say a few words to announce our vote in favour of this ratification. Of course, we too share the words of those who said that ratification comes many years late. Our vote will be in favour because the Convention responds to the need to improve judicial cooperation, without prejudice to the rules that protect freedom and above all by continuing to ensure legal assistance in a rapid and effective manner, compatible with the fundamental principles of the national law of the individual Member States of the European Union, while respecting individual rights. The failure to ratify, in all these years, the Convention by Italy has obviously helped to delegitimize and weaken our country in international organizations, but it has also prevented, for example, a work that could be done to rebuild the truth and to guarantee justice to the victims of the massacre of Ustica. In the absence of ratification of this Convention, it was not possible in the European Parliament for Italy to ask for cooperation that could bring the truth to those facts. We will therefore vote in favour, despite the fact that we did not agree with the inclusion in the House of Delegation to the Government to reform Book XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the modification of certain provisions on extradition abroad. (11 a.m.) (Followed by PETRAGLIA). We greatly appreciated the work done by the Senate Justice Commission, which emerged from the debate. It has introduced a series of guiding criteria and punctual principles precisely in order to limit, giving more precise indications, one of the umpteenth delegations that this Government tries to reserve to itself every time. We want to reiterate this, because every time we give too much delegation to the Government we continue to delegitimize the role of Parliament. Despite all this, however, we obviously consider the ratification of the Convention, which is very late, to be a priority, precisely for the reasons already stated. Therefore, the vote of the Italian Left and other members of the Mixed Group will be in favour. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u81	FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention on Legal Assistance of 29 May 2000, which is already in operation in 24 countries of Europe, is now also coming to us. After 16 years, it is ratified and made operational. Where and how did the 2000 Convention on Legal Assistance move? It has moved on to a regulatory framework consisting of the 1959 European Convention, the 1985 Convention implementing the Schengen Treaty and the 1962 Treaty of Benelux on extradition and assistance. We must acknowledge the rapporteur and the Government that there has been an in-depth discussion in the Commission, which has seen a willingness to reason in order to lead to the adoption of a measure that is as correct as possible. Many of the amendments tabled by Senator Caliendo were accepted. There is still some interpretative doubt that this morning, apart from the vote in favour declared by all political forces, has given rise to some internal discussion. I do not want to fall into this issue too, but I want to say that the vision of Senator Comrade, probably also inspired by an appreciable patriotic spirit but limited to a vision of national law and our Constitution, makes it clear that European standards with respect to our national law, are primary rules, to which national law must be adhered. It is, of course, the classic graduation of the classification of standards between primary and secondary standards. Well, the internal standard is secondary to the primary standard. So, probably, leaving aside this broad view of the regulatory system of reference, Senator Compagna has allowed himself to go even to some importance of unconstitutionality of the provision of law that we are approving today. Senator Palma needs more attention. My admiration for Senator Palma's majestic preparation is well known. However, Senator Palma's observation, when he says that Larino's attorney (a country I don't know, I imagine it will be a small centre) will be able to agree with the President of the United States of America the establishment of a common investigative team, is evocative but is not correct, because the norm does not provide at all the power, attributed to Larino's attorney, to agree with the President of the United States of America the constitution of a common investigative team. There are passages that such prosecutor must make before reaching agreement with the President of the United States: there is the one with the Chief Prosecutor, the one with the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, all authorities whose participation is expected. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi interrupts me, he obviously doesn't like what I say. I'm sorry, but I am. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, have the surgery done. FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). Senator Giovanardi, you need to know something about when you issue an arrest order against a person with visibility. You probably don't go to courtrooms, but you need to know... Senator Falanga, address the presidency and not Senator Giovanardi. FALANGA (AL-A (MpA)). I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for avoiding an emotion, which is different from what you are causing me when I speak to you. I was saying that there are clearly some steps to be taken, but all this has no relevance. I believe that we live at a time when, both because of the economic crisis and because of the phenomenon of terrorism, all political forces within every European State (and not only) must cooperate to achieve the objective of defeating these cancers that come from outside to destroy our societies. The one envisaged by the draft law under consideration is an important instrument and I must acknowledge all political forces (Movement 5 Stars, Italian Left, Conservators and Reformists, Forza Italia) that there has been a sharing by everyone on the opportunity to emanate it: it is a clear sign of political wisdom. Just as, at this moment in other European countries we see Governments of national unity, I hope that not only on the measure under consideration, but on all those that we are still going to adopt there may be a vision of national unity that leads us to overcome this difficult moment. From this small measure - small compared to the others I have stated and pointed out - can start a different way of conceiving politics. We in the AL-A Group have understood that. In other words, we understood that we had a moral duty within the framework of a mandate autonomy, which is a fundamental principle of our Constitution, so that no matter who goes to the President of the Republic to object to violations of constitutional norms, we fail to consider that the primary general principle of our Constitution is the autonomy of the parliamentary mandate. It is within the framework of the exercise of this mandate that the parliamentarians can give - now or later - confidence to a Government or in any case vote in favour of a measure coming from another political force. Let us then start on this path. We have taken this path of cooperation; we hope that others will follow us. I am convinced that, by affirming such a culture, our country will have a better future for our children. I therefore vote in favour of the AL-A Group. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u82	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Giovanni Battista Cerletti" in Conegliano, in the province of Treviso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u85	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I would point out that the AP Group will vote in favour of the ratification and enforcement of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters with the Member States of the European Union. Many of my colleagues have already made a worthwhile contribution to this agreement. I am very briefly going over its salient points, and then I will give a detailed consideration to an amendment in particular which has been rejected and which could have been assessed, especially by the Government, in a different way. Why are we in favour of this ratification? Not only because of uniformity and consistency with what has been defined in Europe (the European Union, of which we are the founding country and the primary protagonists of its function), but also and above all because this ratification allows our judicial system to be able to carry out its institutional tasks more quickly and more effectively through the simplification and the greater effectiveness of the formalities of procedures that are inherent in judicial assistance with the other Member States. Specific technical forms are also introduced to strengthen this possibility of collaboration and, together with this ratification, some delegations are conferred on the Government for the reform of book XI, which concerns the subject, with specific reference to extradition to foreign countries and the deadline for the delivery and maximum duration of coercive measures. In this case, the intervention we make is precautionary of the quality of free man also of the person under investigation, which can obviously be compromised and mitigated by measures which, in the collective interest of protecting public security, have a prevalence over the good of personal freedom. There is an increased need for international collaboration that is combined with the amplified danger of crime, not only for economic purposes, but also for declared objectives of aggression against the entire institutional system of the free world and the West in particular. For these purposes, it is most appropriate that this collaboration should take place in an appropriate manner with the quickening of the proceedings and with the construction of a modern judicial system that allows our country to adapt its own law respecting both the fight against crime and the protection of the fundamental rights of the citizen, that we would never want to be sacrificed to other topics. There is a unanimous recognition, in the reasons for this measure, for a qualified inadequacy of some procedures, of some mechanisms of our system that also have normative foundation, which denote an excessive industriousness of an application practice that is all too pedantic, and this, of course, collides with the other objectives described above. The point on which I have a critical opinion is as follows. In this provision it is indicated the right of the Minister to decide whether or not to pursue judicial cooperation, when the requesting State does not give appropriate guarantees of reciprocity or in the event of danger to the sovereignty and security of the national interests of the State, an issue which is highly acceptable. And here I express, perhaps on a personal basis, a different point of view from that of the Government on the specific subject which concerned the amendment which considered the will of the Minister, which was only the subject of information, to the constitution of joint investigative teams that, for what voted the majority of the Senate, can be constituted regardless of the Minister's intervention. I believe that, given all that has been communicated, expressed and confirmed on the fundamental values and the need and opportunity to launch this initiative, on this point we have renounced the affirmation not only of the principle that judicial activity should be carried out in absolute independence, but also of the principle that, when it comes to allowing members of the Forces of the Order of Foreign States in our territory to carry out investigative functions and other, this can happen only and exclusively with the conscious and circumstantial endorsement of the Executive. If the speakers can have a different view, I am surprised that the Government itself has renounced to assert a prerogative that is part of the institutional functions of the Government itself. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u88	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, it will take me very little time for this explanation of vote, given that too long has passed since the signing of this Convention: this Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union has been waiting for ratification for sixteen years. Not wanting to spend more time and in the awareness, as a 5 Star Movement Group, that we have made our contribution at an amendment level, both in the Commission and in the Chamber, to the improvement of the text, I announce the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u91	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will abstain on the measure, although it has made a significant contribution to the correction of the text received from the House of Deputies. The correction was not driven by Group logic or policies, but by careful consideration of some fundamental principles and I must find a sharing with the rapporteur Casson and with the government of the changes made. However, on the question of the role of the Minister of Justice - which has now been proposed by Senator Giovanardi's amendment 42.01, while I raised it on three issues - there was an indication that there would be a rewording for the consideration of the measure in this House, which in fact was not there. At this point, I would like to draw attention to a number of points which lead us to abstain. Mr President, as you teach me, in all the countries of the world the Minister of Justice, if not the most important, is one of the most important ministers of the Government. In our country, even if he is the only minister mentioned in the Constitution, he has no power and as soon as those powers that he had until today are removed from him. No one ever realized that he had the power to authorize or not because, in fact, in our country the Minister has always adapted and has never contradicted the demands of the judiciary. I wonder, then, what is the reason why today we are going to further diminish our country in our relations with other countries. The rapporteur, Mr Casson, and the others, know better than I do that delays in an effective European Public Prosecutor depend precisely on the different positions of the various countries. We have the idea that the judiciary is only in the hands of the magistrates, even if we should occasionally read the minutes of the constituent assembly to see what the values were that were indicated there. I must not recall that Calamandrei and others wanted a public prosecutor dependent on the Executive and that the Italian solution was reached because the lay members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary were introduced, thinking in this way that they could determine a balance. This is not about internal problems, but about the image of our country in the international forum, both European and non-European. Those of you who have had experiences - I have had different experiences, also holding institutional positions in our country - to travel the world, know that our country is recognized abroad as a bearer of strong indications from the technical-legal point of view, but it is not considered for the inability to express, politically and at the general level, a position that is representative, even in relation to the positions covered, of a strong country institution. Well, after we have found our ideas on all the amendments, which are not few, which have been approved by modifying the text of the Chamber, we have allowed ourselves to highlight the need not to diminish the position of our Government, because this also means to diminish the position of our country; it means that the same initiatives of the prosecutors of the Republic will have a lesser weight when they will be able to dialogue with ministers of other countries that have an effective power, of political responsibility. Our prosecutors have judicial power within, but do not have political responsibility, do not commit our country to some choices and when there is to evaluate the interest of the State and not only reciprocity according to specific rules, how does the prosecutor make an evaluation without help? According to these rules the help that will come to us will come from the prediction that the Minister of Justice being informed but without any power, will limit (I hope) to an action of moral conviction of the prosecutor of the Republic, where it moves in the wrong direction. These are the reasons why we, although we share a number of elements and changes that we have helped to make, will abstain. On the other hand, Mr President, this demonstrates the inefficiency of our parliamentary system: there is no capacity to discuss issues that do not concern the political choices of their respective groups, regardless of the discipline of the Group. If we want to reason in terms of efficient legislation, especially when it is not in perhaps the programs, ideologies and proposals of each party, we must have the ability to draw ourselves from the Group's side and find rather solutions that concern our country and give it that dignity it deserves. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u94	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an act which Parliament and the Senate approve after years and years of waiting. I would remind all my colleagues that we are firmly committed to a Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which was held in Brussels on 29 May 2000. Our country in these weeks, in these months, is fighting in Europe to ensure that in the fight against terrorism we can finally proceed in an integrated and common perspective and no longer in a perspective of simple cooperation, because in the positive cooperation we are not able to anticipate and prevent crimes such as those of terrorism, but the same could be said for crimes of mafia, drugs and trafficking in human beings, for those great challenges, in short, that are tormenting our democracies. Well, how can a country like Italy fight at European level to make Europe become a united and common Europe against these crimes, if then, within it, it waits 16 years to give life to the recalled Convention of 2000? You understand that there is a contradiction that we finally dissolve positively. Now our country will be able to say that we have the cards in order to beat the punches on the table and to ensure that not only at European level we harmonize all legislation (and we are the last ones to do this work), but there is also a further capacity to integrate the work by reaching a European coordination and a legal area anti-terrorism and common anti-mafia, which even includes the European Public Prosecutor anti-Mafia and anti-terrorism. That is the goal, the objective and the vision that we must have in these seconds and in these minutes, in which we are going to vote on this important measure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that Article 117 of the Constitution states that the legislative power is exercised by the State and the Regions in accordance with the Constitution, of course, and here is the point of the constraints arising from Community law and international obligations. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have not moved beyond the constraints that we have. On the contrary, I thank the majority and the opposition in the two Commissions, Justice and Foreign Affairs, for we have managed to do a very delicate chisel job so that our history and our guarantees do not fail. A very complex job, but I think, in the end, well done. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to take this step forward. It is a step forward which, as Senator Ginetti has explained in her speech, takes into account a more complex work that has been done on the European directives covering various elements that complement what we are doing now. In the end, we can say that this country has the cards in place so that Europe finally has a legal area anti-terrorism, anti-mafia, anti-drugs and anti-trafficking common and can proceed, in European and international bodies, to ask other countries to do the same. In a few minutes we will have these papers in order and the Democratic Party will finally vote on this long awaited measure here in the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u95	Before we proceed to the final vote, I shall put to the vote the coordination proposal C1, tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Casson. It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No. 1949, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 1168 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u98	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr. President, I'd like to see where Senator Lucio Barani is. Your record is from a lot of votes, but I don't see it. If someone is listening to us from Radio Radicale (Radio Radicale) or Radio Parliament (Radio Parliament) and should see him, take a picture of him and let us know where he is, because he is present but is not in the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u99	The next item is the vote on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on document XXII, No 23. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Petrocelli has the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u100	Mr President, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, I have tabled a request for an urgent statement on the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into ENI SpA. As the text presented states, I would like to point out that the main objective of the Commission is to analyse the link between the activities, the management and the financial situation of ENI SpA and the companies fully involved or controlled by ENI SpA and the phenomenon of corruption, which presents for its size, extent and depth direct connections with the political system, with the public administration, with the system of local self-government, with the technical bodies and with the officials of the State, with the business world and more generally with the economy and finance. Indeed, Mr President, ENI has been and still is part of numerous civil and administrative proceedings and legal proceedings linked to the conduct of industrial activities, as well as in various tax disputes. Of these, I will mention only the main ones: from the litigation relating to the omitted payment ICI for some oil platforms located in the territorial waters of the Adriatic Sea, to the investigation for the concession of Cabinda in Angola; there are then the procedures relating to the refinery of Gela, the procedures relating to the areas located in the Municipalities of Cassano allo Ionio and Cerchiara of Calabria, the investigations that concern the Syndial SpA on the site of Crotone and the process that sees accused the Syndial and Versalis SpA, this time for environmental disaster, in the Municipality of Porto Torres. But what is of grave concern, in my view, are the alleged cases of corruption and, in particular, international corruption. In fact, there are hypotheses of international corruption related to the activity of ENI in Kazakhstan, a parallel strand of investigation involving it in activities conducted in Iraq and hypotheses of crime of international corruption involving ENI and the Saipem group, controlled by it, in Algeria. Finally, in the case of the entire national and international press, there is a hypothesis of international corruption to obtain the ten-year concession in the field of oil exploration called Opl-245 off Nigeria. With this request for urgent procedure, I would like to stress that I, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group, consider it necessary and urgent to examine in particular the reasons that led to these operations and to understand what adjustments can be made at the regulatory level in order to make the management of the company that has a public participation more transparent and to combat corruption more effectively. In this regard I recall the words that President Mattarella said just yesterday to the leaders of the 5 Star Movement of Chamber and Senate who met him, words that remind, once again, how high the attention of the Presidency of the Republic is about the numerous cases of corruption involving the public administration, but also the Italian companies, and I would say in this case, a large company with public participation. Since the judiciary's investigations, but not only, which call into question important leaders of the group and also people related to the leadership, require the utmost clarity, given that these facts clash with the objectives that ENI proclaims to pursue in the fight against corruption, I think that, in words, the company must continue with this philosophy, but in fact it must absolutely put into practice what it has written in its own ethical code. In fact, ENI's Code of Ethics expressly prohibits corruption practices, illegitimate favors, collusive behavior, direct and/or through third parties, personal and career advantages for themselves or for others. Since the board of directors of ENI SpA has also approved the anti-corruption guidelines that should have the objective of providing its employees and collaborators with the appropriate knowledge to prevent and combat acts of corruption, it seems clear to me that the involvement of the management of ENI, in the various and alleged cases that I have already mentioned, raises strong doubts about the real effectiveness of the ethical and anti-corruption standards that companies in general equip themselves with and, in particular, the role that for anti-corruption and illegality can play the public shareholder in state-owned companies, and I stress the public shareholder. For these reasons, my parliamentary group proposes the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Now, Mr President, we are well aware that this proposal is totally disconnected from the facts of the news that we have also talked about during the debate on the motion of no confidence in the Government, which has been discussed here in the Senate these days, but I know and know that a proposal has been submitted to the House of Deputies for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Single Chamber Inquiry which, however, has been strongly focused on the issues of news. Following the words of the President of the Republic of Mattarella and following the events they are involving, and should not involve, only the great international press and which, in my opinion, should strongly involve the Senate of the Republic because our proposal, among other things, was presented on 16 June 2015, also considered the public heritage represented by ENI and that the request to set up a Committee of Inquiry certainly does not want to intervene on the mechanisms that regulate the stock prices of the company itself (on the contrary, we would like it not to be the large surveys published in the international press that interfere with the quotations of ENI), I invite the Assembly to vote in favour of the request for an urgent statement. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Astorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u103	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote against the request just put forward by Senator Petrocelli, to whom I would also very much like to acknowledge that yesterday he had announced this initiative to me. I regard this as an act of good functioning of Parliament, and I believe that we should always, in some way, communicate to ourselves initiatives of such importance. However, we shall vote against this request for many reasons and for reasons of substance. In the meantime, Senator Petrocelli has referred to ongoing judicial investigations and I think that Parliament should in no way interfere with them, leaving the judiciary the full and free exercise of its functions and powers. We are also talking about a huge Italian multinational, perhaps the only large multinational that has remained to our country: a company listed on the stock exchange, which has great responsibility, not only towards the tens and tens of thousands of workers who depend on it, and that has ongoing international negotiations for the use of energy resources, of which our country has an absolute hunger. It is a society to which Italy must, of course, guarantee maximum stability and maximum possibilities for development, leaving intact, and indeed protecting, the action of the judiciary in the search for possible responsibilities in concrete cases. That Parliament should be included in this process, even if only with the announcement of a debate on possible parliamentary investigations frankly seems to me sudden, from an institutional, political and also with regard to our country's energy strategies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u105	Senator D'Anna, you have the right to do so (even if I have registrations to speak).
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u106	D'ANNA (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, I would like to denounce a forgetfulness of the leading Senator, Senator Ciampolillo: there is Senator Endrizzi, whose voting card I see but, through "Radio Radicale" I would like to say that the Senator is not there. How come the eye-catching censor... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MORONESE (M5S). There's no light! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u107	We are not voting, Senator D'Anna.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u108	WOMAN (M5S). What are you talking about? We are not voting! [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u111	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Even after the last explanation of vote, I do not know who I will have to ask for the damage to my voice, because every time we intervene there is a terrible confusion and I continue to have problems. Mr President, I would like to announce that the Italian Left will vote in favour of the request for an urgent statement on the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Actually, I'm a little surprised at President Zanda's statements. It is legitimate to vote against, but now we always use the argument of jobs and uncertainty - it was also the case in the recent referendum - as a reason to avoid any kind of intervention, which is absolutely legitimate after all the events that have emerged and not only. In this way, we want to prevent Members from exercising their legitimate prerogative: we have approved Committees of Inquiry into many situations and we have so many committees of inquiry in progress. So it is done to prevent individual parliamentarians, called to be part of the Commission of Inquiry, from deepening and investigating, without of course overlapping with the judiciary, for example on a society like ENI, to which I believe that this country and the various successive governments - alas - seem to have contracted the same foreign policy. Therefore, I believe that it is not only absolutely legitimate to set up a Commission of Inquiry, but that it is absolutely fundamental, especially after the various events that have emerged that concern not only the investigation of Potenza but many other facts (even of the past, as is well known), that there is the possibility of giving life quickly (with the half-time, as provided for in Article 77) to this Commission of Inquiry. Mr President, we - as you know, because we talked about it twice at the Conference of the Leaders - have, as the Italian Left, tabled a legislative proposal for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to investigate the facts and the system of reports, to be ascertained, which in recent years have influenced and have indeed been so fundamental in determining the energy choices: a Commission of inquiry on the issues that concerned ENI, Basilicata and, in particular, Tempa Rossa. I believe that it would be very important for this Parliament to set up these committees of inquiry, because it would be a form of accountability and would be a way not to delegate everything to the judiciary, whose investigations will take their course without there being any possibility of interference or overlap. I believe that this is precisely for the assumption of political responsibilities, to shed light on political responsibilities and also to shed light on how a large society such as ENI acts in this particular case. I believe that it would be important for our country to have elements of clarification and to understand what the behaviors have been (if there have been, of course, and this is what the Committee of Inquiry will have to find out), that instead they have made sure that the society is found - as unfortunately has also emerged from recent facts - involved in behaviors that damage the public interest, the collective interest and, in the specific case of the investigation of Potenza and Basilicata, public health. So, all the more so, we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u114	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, given that it is certainly legitimate to set up a Commission of Inquiry, because it is provided for in our Regulations, I would point out that ENI is a listed company, of which the State has a large share of shares, therefore, whether it is good or bad, this is of interest to the Italian taxpayer. We therefore believe that there is absolutely no need to set up a Commission of Inquiry, not least because there is the judiciary that is investigating and verifying whether there have been any mischief. I think that, given what has emerged and the controversy that has arisen, if the competent Commission dealing with this matter, together with the Environment Commission, were to start a survey of this issue in a very different spirit, this could be useful for Parliament to be aware of certain particular aspects. But frankly, a committee of inquiry does not seem appropriate to me. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u117	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the People's Area Group will vote against this proposal for two reasons. The first plea concerns the Commission's investigation as such. We are not in any way opposed to the Committees of Inquiry. As Senator Carraro recalled, they are planned and have been established in the Italian Parliament. We believe, however, that the Commission of Inquiry as such is an extraordinary event; not a routine matter, not a routine approved bill. And we are even more convinced of the exceptional nature of a Commission of Inquiry in relation to the poor results of all previous Committees of Inquiry set up jointly by the House and Senate or by the Senate alone: all committees of inquiry which gave birth to very little results, not even a mouse. Therefore, the fact that a Commission of Inquiry is often required to be set up can only be one of the instruments by which to make policy, but it is not objectively done the investigative work required by such a Commission. WOMAN (M5S). Is that why you asked for Aldo Moro? MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). The second problem is that we have always supported, in all cases, the principle of separation of powers. The facts which should be established by this Commission of Inquiry have been brought to public attention by judicial investigations. And it is right - indeed it seems absolutely necessary to us - that the judicial authority should find and conclude investigations, that at least a large part of the investigation and the criminal or civil process should be completed, without interference and without overlaps. We do not believe, Senator Carraro, that a Commission of Inquiry should not be set up because the ENI is listed on the stock exchange; we do not believe that it should be established because there is a separation of powers and because there is our absolute opposition to making the Committees of Inquiry a subject of political controversy. That is why I confirm our Group's vote against. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u120	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is quite clear that the proposal of colleagues from the 5 Star Movement to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the ENI is entirely instrumental. We, as the Autonomous Group, do not agree with the Commission's hypothesis of inquiry because it would be a useless duplication, with the role and functions substantially competing with the investigations carried out by the judiciary. Asking the Senate to set up a single-cameral commission on the basis of alleged corruptive phenomena, unconfirmed and judged in court, and alleged criminal and civil responsibilities of the ENI in relation to its industrial activities, appears to be a declaration of distrust of the judiciary's action. The aims that would be assigned to the Commission, on the basis of the proposal of the 5 Star Movement Group, are, in our opinion, illegitimate in some respects and ultra-rhea under others. The Commission's proposal states that it wants to investigate the corruptive phenomena which would have emerged and, at the same time, to verify the existence of illegal behaviour. The investigation of illegal phenomena may be motivated by the need to give the Commission powers of inquiry because - it is considered - it is not exhaustive and probative of action and judgment in the courts. It is one of the possible hypotheses that, in our opinion, however, lapses or, on the contrary, becomes dangerous, if this happens when we have to wait for the outcome of the investigation of the judiciary in relation to these serious hypotheses of crime and corruption. Well, in the case of the judiciary, it is exercising its powers and has not given up its role at all. Therefore, there is no need for this Commission of Inquiry. On the other hand, it is clear that the intention is to establish a Commission of Inquiry as a supplementary place for a political confrontation which has already taken place at the parliamentary level with the rejection on Tuesday of the motions of mistrust presented by the oppositions to the Government. In other words, this House has already spoken politically and parliamentaryly, it has considered the resignation of the former Minister Guidi necessary and appropriate in order to ensure the full integrity of the action and the role of the Government, even if there were no and no criminal profiles emerged against it. This Senate rejected the motions of distrust because of their instrumental character, because it judged them to be unfounded in relation to the role of the President of the Council and to the collegial responsibilities of the Government. It also referred to the action of the judiciary and its conclusion within a reasonable time to ascertaining the facts. This leads to a profound distortion of the nature of the parliamentary committees of inquiry, which were first conceived as a guarantee institution for oppositions: distortion and exploitation which we consider irresponsible. For these reasons and since the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry would result in the collapse of the ENI Stock Exchange title, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u123	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, the CoR Group is quite perplexed at the debate that has developed so far, because we feel that (very meritoriously) fundamental principles such as the need to avoid overlapping parliamentary work with the events under investigation by the judiciary and the separation of powers. However, it is precisely in parliamentary activity that we have given life and give life every time to the principle of legislature, to that authentic monster (in an antithetical sense to the principles recalled) of the Anti-Mafia Commission: always the same, always with the same prerogatives and now become a place I do not understand whether of collaboration with the Minister of the Interior in the dissolution of this or that Municipality, of exhibition of clean lists or dirty lists at the time of the municipal elections. From this point of view, therefore, I am not entirely in favour of the proposal from my colleagues to Five Stars and will lead the CoR Group to abstain. We will abstain, that is, from their request too specific, too motivated on the recent affair involving some protagonists. On the other hand, in our Group, on the very basis of that affair, but with the absolute guarantee of constitutional profiles, it seemed to us that Mr Di Maggio's proposal, which has not yet come to the attention of the Assembly, did not present those profiles that lead us not to vote in favour of the request of our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. [[Comments of Senator Donno]] But let us be careful with hypocrisy. Since the mid-sixties (first President, Mr Amadei), the anti-Mafia Commission has always been rejected whenever it was intended to be an orientation, as if to examine repentance: I remember a bill by the former head of the Cossiga State, which we had signed in about one hundred senators. The Anti-Mafia Commission is a kind of permanent Commission, a Commission of Inquiry whose prerogatives have not even managed to keep pace with anti-Mafia legislation: today that there is the dissolution of municipal councils, we still have this strange ritual of the Anti-Mafia Commission. From this point of view, being prejudiced in favour of a broad revision of the powers of inquiry, but through a less lazy (at the beginning of the legislature above all) formulation of the Commissions, we make our own the hesitations of my colleague Carraro on the formulation of the Commission of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, which could be carried out as a cognitive investigation elsewhere. But instead we reserve the right to support, in the broadest spectrum of the specificity of the political, non-judicial, profiles of the Lucan question, as well as brought to the attention as far as possible of a debate on mistrust by Mr Di Maggio, his proposal. Hence our abstention. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u126	Mr Ruvolo (AL-A (MpA)). Mr President, we in the AL-A Group are also opposed to the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry, for an act of great responsibility, especially of wisdom, because ENI is a very important part of the economic reality of our country. But I would not like to convey the message that those who do not want the Commission of Inquiry are those who want to cover it up. This message can't pass. I believe that there are control bodies and third-party bodies which, in any case, if there had ever been any crime or any other problem within the ENI, are involved in doing their job. Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to address another Commission of Inquiry which I have tried so many times in this House to bring to the attention of the presidency of the Senate: I refer to the request to set up a Commission of Inquiry into ANAS in relation to everything that has happened over the past decade. I say this for a very simple reason: because 75 senators from all over the institutions have requested this Commission. I therefore urge you once again with due respect for the Presidency, which has not yet given an adequate response. [[Applause from the AL-A Group (MpA).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u127	Colleagues, I recall that we are not setting up a Commission of Inquiry, but we are deciding whether or not to declare urgency, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. Before we proceed to the vote, we shall remove all cards that do not correspond to senators. Colleagues, give us a hand. There are some rows of desert benches, but they have some tiles. Senator Caliendo, you who are a man of law help me. And now, after we've fixed the cards, we vote by show of hands. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to document XXII, n. 23, made by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for a subtle counterproof. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u128	As the competent standing committee has not yet concluded its examination of draft law No 54-B, I shall refer the next item to the agenda for another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u131	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask once again for the answer to the question about a fact that is taking place in these days or probably tomorrow, according to a report published by "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore). I am talking about a gift of 1,200 million made by the State to a private company thanks to extensions in the obligations that were expected from this company. I am referring to Question No 3-02533 of 28 January 2016, which follows on from others. It concerns the company A4 which received as a gift nineteen years of concession of a highway whose receipts exceed 300 million euros per year of which about half constitute the gross operating margin (therefore 19 times more than 300 million) under the pretext of realizing the Valdastico Nord highway. He was due to present the project in 2013. Someone allowed me to introduce him two years later, and I still need to know who did it. In 2015 someone - even in this case we do not know who and we are again in the mystery - granted an extension to 2016. Now there has been an agreement with the Autonomous Province of Trento so that this motorway will not be made and, however, the company seems to take for granted and, indeed, it has the possibility to manage the highway until 2026 and what do you do with it? He sells it to a Spanish company in exchange for 1,200 million. In other words, the State gave 1,200 million, which are Italian citizens, to a private company. The government should have the decency to respond. The sale looks like it's set for tomorrow's day. I hope the government answers or deals with the problem. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u134	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would appreciate it if my colleagues in the Five Star Movement, before leaving as grasshoppers, as they did yesterday... president. Senator Bencini, you should speak to the Presidency because we are not doing any group or personal business here. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Yesterday I gave up my personal intervention because I wanted to address them. I needed to confer on you and the Presidency, but I wanted them to hear too. Consequently, if they leave, they cannot hear, even if - rightly - they are free to do what they believe. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on a personal matter. I am also speaking on behalf of the citizens who are activists at home, as they call them, of the 5 Star Movement, who perhaps ignore many existing dynamics within this Parliament, besides - I am always referring to the citizens who are activists of the 5 Star Movement - the importance of these places and the emotion (as well as the luck) of being able to express themselves in this House. That's why we write the speeches, to try to be clear, concise and not to lose the thread, but despite everything, at least as far as I'm concerned, I make mistakes because I get excited: maybe I say "Renzo" instead of "Renzi" or "5 Stalles" instead of "Stelle". However, the day before yesterday, on April 19th, a video of about sixty seconds was posted about my intervention in general discussion in relation to the motion of no confidence in the Government. The point is that this video was posted by Nicola Virzi, member of the 5 Star Movement communication staff, hired and paid by the Group with Senate money. So, it's public money for all those who pay taxes. The video, posted on a social media, on Mr. Nicola Virzi's page, "Nick the Black," was made for derogatory purposes, so that I would be exposed to the so-called public guitar as there are vulgar and violent comments, as well as the fact that he had 106 shares. Now, I am really sick of this way of making political communication. I understand that Mr. Virzi ("Nick the Black") is, let's say, a server of the House & Co. and the 5 Star Movement; in fact I don't think it is anymore tolerable or acceptable such way of discrediting the political opponent, the people, to accredit consent and click. This mode represents the nefariousness of this political party, a party of incompetents, of inepts. Their productivity is entirely due to their highly prepared and laborious legislative group: a group of professionals (in fact, in the past legislatures belonging to Italy of the Values, and who today, unfortunately, work for this political group of incapable, who have gone away); therefore, unable also to listen, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u135	Senator Bencini, I'm taking your word off. This is not allowed. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, one account is the personal fact, another is discrediting colleagues by exploiting the personal fact. Let us go back to a more appropriate language in this House, otherwise I do not accept provocations here. DEL BARBA (PD). Let her talk! Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). President. - I refer to a more appropriate language in this House. You are quite right, Mr President, I apologise and regret, I also regret and regret. However, for three years now, these spokesperson citizens have continued to have a deplorable attitude. They boast of the nouns "freedom" and "honesty" and they do well to invoke them because they are neither free nor honest, neither morally nor intellectually, provided that there are some intellectuals in that Group; there are many who follow therapies and take the wrong pills. In all cases, president. If you insist, I'll take your word for it. He'll say what he thinks at another location. Mr Barani (AL-A (MpA)). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, you didn't ask to intervene in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-612.ana.u136	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.11 a.m.
