ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.42 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with her the whole House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the disappearance of Dario Fo, who was a great protagonist of the Italian, European and world culture of our time, at the age of ninety, was reported a few minutes ago. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1997. Dario Fo, actor, author and director, has profoundly innovated Italian comedian theatre and our literature through performances often performed together with his wife Franca Rame, who was also a member of this Assembly in the 15th legislature. Paradigmatic of the inspiring motifs and of its theatrical production in general is the work "Funny Mystery" of 1969, a reworking of ancient popular texts of the Lombard tradition with continuous grafts of contemporary culture and continuous references to the civil and social life of our time. Dario Fo was an intellectual strongly engaged in political and civil campaigns and significant is, in this regard, the motivation of the award of the Nobel Prize: "Because," said that motivation, "following the tradition of medieval jesters, weakens the power by restoring dignity to the oppressed." The Senate of the Republic therefore joins the pain of the family and of all Italians for the disappearance of a great artist and intellectual. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u11	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, I would like to ask my fellow Members to lower their voices. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u12	Senator Pelino and the other colleagues, could you allow the intervention to take place? Please, Senator De Biasi.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u13	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, I have never been interested in what Dario Fo voted for, which card he included in the urn; all I know is that with Dario, an uncomfortable, extraordinarily generous man, we have waged extraordinary battles. He was always present: whenever he was called, he placed his civil commitment before any other commitment, even of a professional nature. Dario Fo was a very particular man. For those who have known him, like me, and also had the honour of his friendship and of the dearest Franca, whom we have also mentioned in this House, the experience has been very special. He loved to surround himself with young polyvalents who knew how to do everything in the theater. He had a theatre school in which he taught them with great rigour what it means to do theatre and what theater was, because theater was his life and it was for him the fierce criticism and not only the delight of reality and political reality. I remember the dramatic moments, the bomb season in Milan, Piazza Fontana, his incessant commitment, his theatrical performances at the Palazzina Liberty. For more than one generation it has been a point of reference in the way of seeing reality, in the ability to not be conformist. He was expelled from the RAI, from the public service, because he had allowed himself, in an acronym of "Canzonissima", to speak against war and to highlight the widows of war, these women left alone by the horror of death. He was kicked out, but he went on and did the theater. He was loved regardless of the media, which in the end re-evaluated him, unfortunately late, with the unforgettable painting lessons, which are still broadcast today by RAI 5 (because Dario Fo was also a great painter). He had an extraordinary artistic culture and a very rare capacity for dissemination. He was a great scholar of linguistics and the funny Mystery made it a sort of contemporary Rabelais. I remember the study on the language and its ability to make a progressive dialect, but absolutely understandable to everyone; because, as always, in the theatre, in addition to the word, there is the gesture and, in addition to the gesture, there is the stage presence, there is that empathy that he could convey to everyone. We will miss this very particular artistic value very much. When he won the Nobel Prize he did not believe it either, he was shy and backward: he was happy and worried at the same time that he had such a great responsibility. We talked about it a few times and I understand it, as I understand its progressive distance from the world after the disappearance of its beloved Franca, which was a piece of his life and of himself. I believe that after his death a decline has begun - alas - that is common to all men, but that when it occurs also because of the lack of love, because of the loss of the person you love, it is even stronger. There would be a lot to say and I hope that we will be able to do so in this House with a celebration appropriate to a Nobel Prize, in addition to our poor and small words; essential, however, because when a myth dies you always face the void. I believe, however, that the enormous heritage that has left us will certainly not disappear. He was an eternal boy; this is. He didn't resign himself to the passing of time. He was an eternal boy, and transgression was his life. Even when he was nominated mayor from a civic list in a City Council, he made a very strange, very complicated and impossible program to implement. But it was his figure; that impossibility that could find solution and space only in art, in that extraordinary art that he left us and that makes us feel a little more alone all today, and that I hope we can share for so long and so much time, teaching it to the youngest. The art of theatre is in fact life and I believe that we all, in such a horrible and complicated period, need to feel art and culture as the only true antidote to fundamentalism, selfishness, barbarism that accompany us daily. Here, Dario Fo has spent a part of his life for this and also for this we are grateful to him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u16	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, we too are dismayed by the news of the death of Dario Fo, this genius of extraordinary ability to represent the word and gesture, both in the theatre, in terms of the physical place devoted to the exaltation and emphasis of art, and in life. In life Dario Fo probably represented our precariousness to communicate, in being supportive through the word, to recognize us as unique in the panorama of the present world, of which he understood the contradictions and certainly manifested also the longing for freedom. An absolute freedom that obviously made him irreverent and irritating even and, especially, of power. From this point of view, the appreciation on the part of the liberal culture as we express, is an appreciation of great coherence in the sense that the free man in the world must be put in a position to express to infinity all his potentialities. As for the history of the person, it has been mentioned here to RAI. In some ways, he was also the forerunner of a dispute, of the swamped way of doing entertainment and entertainment in the RAI. So much so, as has been recalled here, he was thrown out. He was also the forerunner and the forerunner of that position taken then by the main competitor of RAI, who was Silvio Berlusconi in founding the Mediaset system. Like Berlusconi, in fact, he questioned that swamp system and that also curial system of dealing with the show and also information. Berlusconi was even the subject of a slap in the face, as it was in the character's DNA. From this point of view also his prejudice and a certain preconception have made him a person not really pleasant, but always a genius, always an artist and a person to whose memory we bow and, together with the Assembly, we join in the mourning of his family. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u19	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, speaking on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, it is difficult to remember the figure of Dario Fo, who has always been violently opposed to us and has also expressed it in some of his plays and artistic works. However, he must surely be remembered as a great man of theatre. He himself, receiving the Nobel Prize, which was given to him with the reasons that the President recalled, said: With me they wanted to reward the theater people. It was in fact an abnormal case that an author more than anything else of theatrical texts and, in the first place, an actor of theatrical texts received the Nobel Prize. As such he acted, in a manner similar to so many other men of art, in particular of the theater, representing a pungolo, a fierce counterpoint to power - as wrote those who awarded him the Nobel Prize - but above all to the political part from time to time opposed to him. This fact put him in the same position as other great theater men. I remember one of the many, Aristophanes, who was pungole also for some who then became sacred monsters: the great enemy of Aristophanes was in fact Socrates. Therefore, even then there was one political party opposed to another. In this Dario Fo had an irruence, an exuberance and a courage, which led him to assume extremely questionable positions. I believe that we cannot remain silent - as we should not be silent about other intellectuals of our recent history - his positions regarding Commissioner Calabresi, having even staged a theatrical play in which he was alluded to and which helped to create the climate in which Commissioner Calabresi, recognized innocent in every circumstance by the investigations made, was ultimately brutally killed. Here, however, in some way, is also an aspect of his greatness as a theater man: knowing how to bring on stage extreme positions - even in my opinion unacceptable - with great theatrical abilities, with great irruence and with the ability to be heard by a very vast audience, while practicing a theatrical genre that could be difficult - and in fact it was - to a large part of it. I would like to stress one last thought: much of Dario Fo's fame, this character opposed to power - as the commission that awarded the Nobel Prize called it - so uncomfortable, with extreme positions, absolutely contrary to the political area of the Governments of much of the post-war period, those we call today as the First Republic, is due to the multiple broadcasts he made in RAI, in the RAI of the fifties and sixties, which is today remembered in a caricature way as the ultra-conforming RAI to the desires of power. Instead, that RAI gave space to Dario Fo, who then came out of it of his own accord - and in part pushed - and then returned not many years later, in the seventies. I believe that this story should remind us that today's RAI should also be able to give space to someone who naturally has abilities, but who is also violent and extreme against that power. We know very well, in fact, that at the time there were many governments, but all things considered all of the same part; Dario Fo was against that entire government area, but he had room in RAI. I hope that this will also happen today, although it often does not happen. The testimony of Dario Fo is positive in this sense: to have been able to test that power, a democratic power that gave space to him who was radically and violently against him. I fear that we should relate that situation to today's situation and see whether it would be possible today. I believe that today it would not be, and this reminds us of the figure of Dario Fo with a form of gratitude for the complaint he made from positions that - I repeat - I and certainly all my colleagues in my Group have almost always considered unacceptable. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u22	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I think we were all unprepared for the death of Dario Fo, because some old people who survived the history of our country, of themselves, of many friends, of the elites who comforted and accompanied them, at some point seem immortal to us, it seems to us that they can never die. On behalf of the Group, I would like to express my condolences to Jacopo Fo, who continues his father's work. I would like to say that Dario actually liked the Nobel Prize's motivation: "Following the tradition of medieval jesters, he looses power by restoring dignity to the oppressed." I would like to return to the line that Mr Malan mentioned earlier when Dario said that they wanted to reward the people of the theatre. This modesty of Fo was the pleasure of an artist who saw recognized an uncommon role of culture. Dario wasn't prejudiced against anyone. I met him in the most beautiful period of his life, after he had staged the Funny Mystery and a controversial work as an accidental death of an anarchist. We talked about politics with Dario Fo; he listened, he didn't shoot sentences, but at all times he claimed the right of the artist to be somehow anarchist, to radically criticize power. In fact, he said that there was reason for that criticism, that artists, intellectuals could not be involved in a battle of interpretations, breaking the hair, saying what was right and what was not, what could be done and what criticism was excessive, because this criticism founded in the study of the great national tradition was fundamental to power. Even Franca Rame, Senator Franca Rame, with her letter of resignation, perhaps before the time, spoke of something that all of you senators have observed - like it or not - in this legislature: the crisis of identity of the very strong elected institutions of our country; to the extent that Franca said she could not stay in this Assembly. This cannot be a political criticism like what we normally do; it is the political criticism of an artist; it is the political criticism of a soul that manages to express the best in the criticism of the Italian tradition. We were talking about RAI. True, the RAI of the 1950s and 1960s was omnivorous. It was an obsessively demo-Christian RAI, because we came from a crusade: the 1948 elections, with the excommunication of communists and trade unionists, had been a crusade; it was, however, a RAI that opened up to everyone, who had many communist intellectuals in his command group. And he was able to involve that extraordinary Milanese elite who wasn't just Dario Fo. I think of Walter Chiari, but also Enzo Jannacci. There were a lot of theater and entertainment men who were particularly vital in Milan at that time. As I said, the greats also come from the elites around them. There is now a debate mentioned on the pages of the newspapers between Scalfari and Zagrebelsky: of course there are elites, the numbers one do not exist if they are not somehow connected with the elites. That omnivorous RAI knew how to put everything in, but of course it was necessary to be within the limits of what, according to another great one who died recently, Bernabei, was the limit of the common feeling of a country with a Christian Democrat majority, which came from the 1948 crusade and which had difficulty opening up to the center-left in the 1960s. Now, I think that Dario's expulsion from RAI has done an extraordinary favor and pleasure. Dario's been studying. Funny Mystery is one of the magnificent works of the last fifty years: the Italian popular culture that becomes theatre, corrosive criticism, pure art. His participation in the tumultuous subsequent events, those of the Sixty-eight, is an act of witness and criticism. Just as an act of witness and criticism was his sympathy, in the last period, for the 5 Star Movement, in which he saw a desire for very strong renewal, beyond the hair that split, positions that can be wrong or the criticism that can be populist. How did he explain to me, and I'm still grateful, when he said, Look, there is a reality of politics and then there is a reality of history. And in the reality of history we must be more generous. He didn't feel much, Dario Fo, so he seemed out of the world, but he could be deep inside the world. I have nothing else to say, so by arm, but I hope that we will commemorate him as he deserves, without saying too many formal things and leaving him his will to be a jester, to be a jester against. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u25	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, for us a body has simply died, because its spirit hangs in each one of us, who have loved him very much and we simply remember him with his smile and affection. At every moment he always told us: don't give up. He is simply a free person. He would never have entered a place like this. And also his wife, Franca Rame, was looking forward to leaving this unhappy place, absolutely arid at the human level. While he was a man, a human with a truly excellent soul. He was called an artist, a painter. But we want to remember him so, simply, with a greeting, a thank you and a hug of affection. An infinite affection that is not concluded now, nor can it be concluded. And we thank him for everything he has taught us, both as people, as citizens, and as people. Thank you. Thank you, Dario. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u26	We close this very sad page, promising to perform an official commemoration of a great artist.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u29	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, in view of the agenda and how the work is developing, I would ask the House to reverse the agenda by anticipating the debate on the draft laws ratifying international agreements.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u32	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am voting against the proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the order of business to be reversed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u34	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u35	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 10.11 a.m. and resumed at 10.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u36	The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u37	Madam President, I renew my request for the agenda to be reversed and I would ask that the quorum be checked before we proceed to the vote. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u38	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposal to reverse the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal to reverse the agenda put forward by Senator Candiani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00637, tabled by Senator Fedeli and other senators, 1-00649, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators, and 1-00650, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on initiatives to combat the phenomenon of forced marriage. I call Senator Fedeli to explain motion 637.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u40	Madam President, 700 million girls and girls around the world are forced to marry before the age of eighteen; between them 250 million even before the age of fifteen. Every seven seconds she marries a child under fifteen. Already these figures, presented by UNICEF and Save the children on the occasion of the World Day of Girls and Girls last Tuesday, would suffice to understand the importance of the motion that we vote today. But the scenario is actually even more serious. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u41	Excuse me, Senator. Colleagues, please, who must go out, but allow the senator to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u42	FADELI (PD). Girls and girls, forced to get married, leave school, thus giving up the main instrument of personal empowerment, autonomy and also of enrichment of society, given the numerous studies linking the increase in the rate of schooling to GDP. Girls and girls forced to accept early marriages must then suffer the sexual proposals of husbands, with early pregnancies and health risks, both of mothers and children. Thus, 70,000 girls die each year from complications during pregnancy or childbirth, and children born to a underage mother are 60 percent more likely to die than newborns. If they survive, then they risk more than others suffering from malnutrition and cognitive or physical delays. Early marriages are widespread in various political and cultural contexts, especially in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa; it is not by chance the same areas where maternal and infant mortality, malnutrition and illiteracy are most widespread. I want to say this clearly: it is not, however, a phenomenon linked only to poverty, but to cultural dynamics and habits linked to a patriarchal society that has always discriminated against girls and women. And it is not such a distant phenomenon, over the years, from us. Until a few decades ago, before the battles and victories of women, even in our society the girls were little encouraged to study, destined for work at home and often forced to marriages of convenience. Things have fortunately changed from us and are changing, but not yet in other contexts. We must then act more, informing, raising awareness, mobilizing consciences, showing our closeness and adopting legislative measures and specific cooperation plans in countries where these practices still exist and, at the same time, operate in Italy. Also because, especially with the increase of migratory flows from Arab countries and the Indian subcontinent and with the presence of foreign communities in our cities, early marriage also involves those who live in our territory. The responsibility for welcome and positive integration therefore challenges us also on this ground: to make known to those who come to us the rights that they can enjoy and provide real support from our society and our institutions are all decisive facts. It is a responsibility to those who arrive and those who already live here with us. Girls and girls who grow up with us, who attend our schools and follow paths of integration, often end up getting away, rightly, from the cultures of origin, reject the combined marriages and feel so even more forced and raped when forced to marry, risking being distanced from the community and being without assistance, without comfort and without human relations to take refuge in. It is for them, for every child and child who suffers and suffers violence, in Italy and in the world, that we must, for our responsibilities, act. You see, respect for human rights that we so often discuss must always and everywhere be a choice and a shared priority for institutions and politics, so for all of us. I would like to remind you that Italy has already helped to win important battles within the United Nations - I am thinking of the International Criminal Court, the moratorium on the death penalty, the fight against female genital mutilation - and it is already acting on the ground of countering forced marriages. However, we must continue, in a stronger and faster way, to play our role as protagonists in this matter. That is why today's motion. That is why an intervention by the Italian Parliament, just a few days before World Children's Rights Day, will take place on 20 November. By approving the motion, which is shared and signed by almost everyone (but I think the House will produce an important result for everyone), we must commit the Government to act on three fronts. Firstly, it is necessary to take action in international fora in order to ensure, to a greater and more rapid extent, full respect by the signatory countries for the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Adolescence, which we too have ratified. It provides that the States Parties shall take all legislative, administrative, social and educational measures, so there is a direct responsibility of the States which have signed the Convention, to protect girls and children against all forms of violence, physical or mental outrage or brutality, abandonment or negligence, abuse or exploitation, including sexual violence. I stress: "including sexual violence" and forced marriage is sexual violence. It is important to understand the concepts and their links. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bianconi and Bonfrisco]] It is necessary, then, to take all appropriate steps to fully implement the UN Human Rights Council resolution banning early and forced marriages and therefore urges all Member States to issue, apply and respect laws and policies aimed at preventing early and forced marriage and protecting those at risk, in order to ensure instead that marriage is celebrated only with the informed, free and full consent of spouses. Finally, it is necessary to consider, in an important and synergistic exchange with Parliament, the opportunity to provide Italy with appropriate legislation to consider forced marriage and all activities related to it as a criminal offence. In this regard, we believe that the most advanced model is that of Sweden, which in 2014 passed a specific law, according to which minors can no longer be given permission to marry before the age of eighteen and the pressure exerted by parents or relatives can lead to a prison sentence of up to four years. It is also introduced - and this is an important point - the criminal hypothesis of travel with deception in order to contract forced marriage, because this is one of the things that happens most commonly in our societies and only rarely appears in some newspaper. Early and forced marriages are a serious violation of human rights, as well as of every principle of civilization, freedom and self-determination of the person. They violate the right of girls and girls to live with joy, serenity and in complete autonomy. They stop being the protagonists of their lives, following inclinations and desires, falling in love and choosing freely when to create a family and looking with optimism at the future. All the girls and all the children, on the other hand, have the right to grow up serene and free to choose. We must commit ourselves to this, to preventing, as well as countering, these situations, prejudices, discrimination, violence and inequalities. After all, these are our fundamental principles of civil coexistence. We must really feel, and not only in words and not only on the days of celebration, the destiny of every child and every child in Italy, in Europe and in the world, of every child who is and who is born, and we must give back to all children the possibility of being master of their destiny. It is their future, but also the dignity, responsibility and civil coexistence of each and every one of us. That is why I thank all the signatories and signatories of the motion. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Mixed and Senator Centinario. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u43	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students and teachers of the Institute "San Giuseppe del Caburlotto" in Rome, who are visiting the Senate and attend our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u44	I call Senator Donno to explain motion No 649.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u45	Madam President, according to Terre des hommes' recent dossier "Indensea" on the global condition of girls and girls, every year about 15 million girls get married before they turn 18. These data will increase to 950 million by 2030 and 2050 to 1.2 billion baby brides. The countries in which early marriages are most widespread are: Somalia, Niger, the Central African Republic, Mali, South Sudan, Guinea and Malawi. These are particularly fragile territories, marked by extreme poverty, wars and humanitarian emergencies. On the spot, Bangladesh is one of the countries where the incidence of early marriages is highest: 52 percent of teenagers join in marriage before the age of eighteen, 18 percent before the age of fifteen and 2 percent are under the age of 11. It is clear that repeated violations of human rights in armed conflicts are most affecting civilians, in particular women, who are subjected to widespread or systematic rape, sexual violence, exploitation, trafficking, coercion of prostitution, in a continuing picture of worsening gender violence, during and after conflicts. Further factors that raise the incidence of early marriages are natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones. Between 2010 and 2011, Human rights watch, the international non-governmental organisation that deals with the defence of human rights, confirmed numerous episodes of abductions by Islamist militiamen against children and girls. The girls, in particular, were not only forced into forced domestic labor, but were also forced to suffer sexual abuse and marry militiamen, in clear contrast to the fundamental principles of international humanitarian law, in particular the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949, on the protection of civilians in wartime, and its additional protocols I and II of 1977. The data from the Islamic justice department in Amman, Jordan, show that early marriages account for 35% of the total number of Syrian refugees in 2015. The phenomenon, however, has a greater extent, due to the fact that many unions are not registered. The sale and trafficking of human beings, with particular attention to girls and young women, are one of the most profitable sources for the coffers of the terrorist group Islamic State. According to UNAMI (United Nations assistance mission in Iraq), ISIS would have opened an office in Mosul, setting up a real market where women and girls are displayed with price tags, so that buyers can choose and negotiate the sale. Similar circumstances were also reported in Ramadi, Falluja, as well as in Aleppo, Raqqa and Hasakah. This is a symbol of a growing market that uses new technologies in an instrumental way. In fact, young girls and girls would also be sold through messaging channels such as WhatsApp and Telegram. In the context of an investigation of the Associated Press agency last July, the text of the following horrible message was released: Virgin, beautiful, 12 years old. Its price has reached $12,500. The migratory flows have allowed further evidence to emerge. To this end, during 2015 the Norwegian Department of Immigration identified ten girls under 16 years of age, the minimum age for consenting sexual intercourse and contract marriage in the Scandinavian country, married to older men than them. In February 2016, the Danish Minister of Immigration, following the emergence of certain cases, announced his willingness to block the reception of the bride and groom in the appropriate centres. Becoming a wife at an early age has serious health implications as well as for harmonious psychophysical and social development. The girls who live this early reality, in fact, leave school prematurely and are forced to pregnancy that the physicist is not able to face and that exposes them to serious and irreparable consequences. Moreover, the age difference - often marked - with the partner makes it impossible for small brides to agree on the use of contraceptive methods, exposing them to the risk of both contracting sexually transmitted diseases, and of unwanted pregnancies, often very risky. From the birth point of view, every year about 16 million girls aged between fifteen and nineteen become mothers, while about one million are girls under fifteen who have the same fate. On the other hand, there are 3 million girls under 20 who have had abortions in countries where this practice is illegal or insecure. On the spot, complications during pregnancy and childbirth are, after suicides, the second cause of death, with about 70,000 girls losing their lives every year. In addition, children born to teenage mothers are 50 percent more likely to die in the first days after childbirth than children of women between the ages of twenty and thirty - five. In accordance with Article 37 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention of 11 May 2011 shall be deemed to take the necessary legislative or other measures to penalise the intentional act of forcing an adult or child to contract marriage. In addition, the Parties shall take the legislative or other measures necessary to penalise the fact that an adult or a child is intentionally deceived into the territory of a Party or a State other than that in which he resides in order to force him to engage in marriage. It should also be borne in mind that there is an increasingly extensive case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which sets out important precepts to combat violence against women. From the point of view of national legislation, there are no express and specific regulatory references relating to forced marriage, as well as detailed statistics in this regard. It should also be considered that, on 22 October 2014, Resolution 7-00338, presented by the 5 Star Movement, first signed by Maria Edera Spadoni, on respect for the rights of children and women in Iraq, was approved in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In this forum, the Government committed itself to keeping high attention to the draft law adopted by the previous Iraqi Government and inherited from the present Parliament, also with a view to possible future steps that would be necessary to prevent its possible adoption, in compliance with international agreements signed and ratified in defence of human dignity and the rights of children and women. In addition, on 29 June 2016, a motion on forced marriage was submitted to the Council of Europe to identify measures necessary for its prevention and for the identification of appropriate methodologies, definitions and criteria applicable to the collection of data of victims of forced marriage, with a view to protecting victims. On 27 May 2014, Sweden adopted a special legislation to combat forced marriages, providing for an ad hoc crime and sanctioning the criminality of anyone who induces or forces a child to marry using its state of vulnerability. Thus, actions such as pressure from parents or relatives can lead to a prison sentence of up to four years. For these reasons, we ask that the Government commit itself to the following six points. First of all, we ask that the Government undertake to take action, through the use of every useful means, in the competent national and international fora, to ensure that tangible steps are taken to combat the phenomenon of brides girls, gender violence against women and historically unequal power relations between genders, especially as a preventive measure, through the adoption of effective policies and concrete measures to be implemented in the most endangered territories, following the precepts contained in the Istanbul Convention and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Secondly, we call for the Government to commit itself to taking all necessary action to ensure that the institutions, bodies and organizations involved in the phenomenon of bride-grooms, as well as the subsequent monitoring, study and monitoring, effectively obstructing this repeated violation of human rights, are brought together in a timely manner. Thirdly, we call for the Government to commit itself to encouraging, including through the active involvement of recognised international governmental and non-governmental organisations, an effective education plan for the rights of the most exposed age groups, for the strengthening of civic awareness from school age onwards, for the autonomy and self-determination of women, including in terms of sexual and reproductive health, for the achievement of gender equality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Donno. WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I am about to finish. I would like to ask you for a few more minutes. Fourthly, we ask that the Government undertake to ensure that, starting from the national context where there is a preceptist vacuum, every country currently inoperous implementations in a punctual and binding manner its own regulatory framework, through the prediction of specific criminal cases, sufficiently sanctioned, on forced marriage. Fifth, we ask that the Government undertake to guarantee and promote, even in the appropriate extraterritorial areas, a special protection and guarantee of anonymity to all girls and girls who intend to denounce crimes and threats, including through a special commitment of reception and appropriate transmission by members of the medical profession. Finally, but not least - and this is a very important point - we ask that the Government undertake to support, even in the context of dialogue and confrontation between nations in the field of health and protection of rights, in the case of danger of life of the underage mother exposed to violence and coercion and of the fetus, in the presence of adequate hygienic conditions, the recognition of the practice of termination of pregnancy, as well as a suitable subsequent path of psychosocial assistance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u46	I call Senator Longo Eva to explain motion No 650.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u47	Madam President, our Group has tabled a motion in which we too highlight the existence of the dramatic phenomenon of early marriage, which sees children from their childhood denied, forced to marry adult men and to carry on pregnancy at an age when they should still be daughters. Given that marriage should be an important moment in an individual's life, a passage of fundamental personal growth and a commitment to take responsibility as a basis for the creation of a family, the phenomenon of early marriage is still dramatically widespread in the world: girls forced to marry adult men and to become mothers at an age when they should still be daughters, with very serious social, psychological and health implications. Early marriages are, therefore, a violation of human rights. On this phenomenon we have found frightening data, according to which every year 15 million marriages have as protagonist a minor and 70,000 girls, aged between fifteen and nineteen years, die each year due to complications related to childbirth. This is a phenomenon in which human rights are violated, because these bride and groom girls are victims of violence and abuse and unable to make decisions that are valid for themselves. In terms of exploitation, abuse and mutilation, the numbers are equally alarming. Of the 6.5 million children between the five and fourteen years of age who work as domestics in private homes, 71 percent are children. About 20 percent of women in the world have been sexually abused as a child. More than 125 million girls are still subjected to genital mutilation and one in five lives in Egypt. In the next ten years, 30 million girls are still at risk of suffering this hateful practice. In the face of such a picture, it is no longer possible to remain inert. We must put an end to such a vortex of violation of rights, poverty, inequality, exclusion, coercion, forced marriages, early pregnancies, social and negative pressures. Girls are a weak part of our society. They cannot defend themselves; they do not have the strength and the means to rebel against the will of their families. It is therefore up to us to help, defend, protect and guard their innocence, to guarantee the possibility of dreaming of a future with a man they choose freely. Several international conventions, including the one on children's rights and adolescence approved by the United Nations in 1989, oblige signatory states to take all legislative, administrative, social and educational measures in order to protect children from all forms of violence, brutality, abuse and exploitation, including sexual exploitation. With our motion, we commit the Government to ensuring that these international conventions and resolutions are effectively respected. Since the phenomenon of forced marriages is also being recorded in Italy, due to the presence of many immigrants, in the motion we ask that foreigners living in Italy be checked to assess whether the marriages contracted involve or have involved minors and, therefore, whether they can be considered as the result of violence. We ask that, together with Parliament, we undertake a path to verify the situation in Italy also through the associations that operate in this sense in the territory and to evaluate, together with Parliament, the preparation of a precise law that expressly prohibits forced marriage, intervening in a perspective of prevention also on those who come from very poor countries in which this practice is widespread. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u48	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u49	Madam President, according to estimates from the United Nations Population Fund, 13.5 million girls worldwide are forced to marry each year at a younger age; 37,000 teenage girls are forced into forced marriages every day. I have signed motion 637 - and I thank Vice President Valeria Fedeli very much for promoting it - because I am convinced that, in the face of such a serious phenomenon as early marriages, we have a duty to commit ourselves and to carry out concrete actions. We owe it to the girls and girls who are denied the facts of childhood; the denial of a life that inevitably involves the cancellation of the possibility of an autonomous, free and self-determined adult life. Between discrimination and serious violations of human rights, to which women in the world are subject, this is without a shadow of doubt the most serious and aberrant. The imposition of marriage, and the related sexual violence, to millions of girls and adolescents exposes them to physical injuries and serious health risks, with irreversible damage due to pregnancies and early parts and endangers their own lives. Suffice it to say that, according to one study, pregnant women aged ten to fourteen are 5 times more likely to die during pregnancy or childbirth than women aged twenty to twenty-four. Not to mention that early marriage coincides with early school leaving and ends up blocking every potential development of the person. The bride and groom girls are often marked by depression and suicide due to the severe psychic damage that comes from living a condition of real sexual slavery. It is only on 2 July 2015 that the United Nations first resolution on the prevention and elimination of forced marriages. The resolution reiterates that early and forced marriages are a violation of human rights, addresses States and stresses the importance of civil society involvement as a whole in order to strengthen monitoring and prevention measures to combat this phenomenon. Motion 637 moves in the wake of that resolution, asking for very precise commitments from our Government. It is important and urgent that our country should also have adequate legislation in this respect in the wake of the Swedish one. But this motion - in my opinion - is also very important because it calls for awareness throughout our country about this phenomenon; a phenomenon that mainly affects the countries of the African and Asian continent, but that with the increase of immigration risks to grow also in Europe and in our country. We do not have data because investigations into communities of non-EU foreigners who in the European Union deny the rights of girls are discontinuous, but it is a phenomenon that requires our utmost attention, as well as that of female genital infibulation. In these weeks, in the Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, a cognitive survey is being carried out on the protection of the psychophysical health of children, in which we will pay due attention to these issues. I also believe, and I conclude, that the importance of the role of school should be taken into account. The school is fundamental to achieving concrete integration. This is why school projects should be promoted and promoted to promote knowledge of rights and equality between women and men. 11:02 a.m. (Following Valdinosis). Finally, I would add a recommendation to our Government; to support international cooperation programmes and projects aimed at preventing this phenomenon and thus promoting a culture respectful of the rights of girls and girls who definitively ban forced marriages. Never more brides girls; to achieve this goal, today almost utopian given the enormity of the phenomenon in the world, we have the moral duty, even more than political, to act in the international and in our country, defending the rights, dignity and life itself of the girls. Our own humanity is at stake. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u50	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u51	Mr President, I am very pleased to see this subject being discussed in this House today, since we, as the Northern League Group, have tabled a draft law in which we wanted to propose the introduction of the crime of coercion to marriage and induction to the journey for the marriage of minors. I think it is important to evaluate our proposal also because it was really surprising to me personally that Italy has not yet equipped itself within its criminal code of this crime, in view of the fact that the phenomenon of the so-called bride and groom girls - which, I would like to remind you, not only concerns the girls, but also the children - is dramatic and the data reported by colleagues sometimes may seem not coincident. Amnesty International, UNICEF's report and Save the Children tell us that, at present, there are about 700 million women all over the world who have been married at a child's age. We are talking about at least 15 million underage women who, each year, have been forced or still married underage. The figure becomes really dramatic when it turns out that every year at least 70,000 girls die of childbirth. This is a very serious phenomenon, which affects many countries around the world: we are talking about Niger, Chad, Somalia, Mali or Bangladesh, but Italy itself is not exempt from this phenomenon because, despite the regulations in force in our country, there are cases of marriages of this type, although certainly not celebrated and recognized according to our civil law. It is a phenomenon that is not under control and there is no observatory that deals with it: from this point of view it is desirable to monitor the whole territory and what happens inside the places of worship of other religions, where weddings between men and girls could be celebrated. It is a phenomenon of unusual gravity, because an early marriage completely prevents a person, a child from enjoying rights such as education, from having a future and a childhood that allow them to actually be a child. To nothing must be worth some considerations, which can be made: it is necessary to be attentive to a thought that can become rampant. We are careful not to think that that is their culture, because probably a little girl who is born in Niger, Mali or Chad knows that she could marry, because the tradition of those countries brings her to this. The phenomenon of early marriage, however, in some realities unfortunately stems not only from a culture of a certain type, but also from a great poverty, material and moral, and from the total lack of education and education. There are phenomena linked to war and humanitarian crises and, not least, there are also religious dictates that hinder a certain kind of development of civilization: behind these religious precepts one can entrench and of them ignorance can feed. We therefore consider it essential to prevent this phenomenon also in Italy and for this reason I wanted to sign motion 637, joining the will of the majority - that I would like to be shared by all - aimed at predicting the crime of constraint to marriage, which was introduced in Sweden in 2014. In fact, the penalties provided for in the Swedish law for such a crime in Italy would be ridiculous, because we, by providing for such penalties, would not go to jail. In Sweden, in fact, imprisonment is expected for up to four years for those who induce a minor to marriage and up to two years for those who induce to the trip aimed at marriage. The latter is a serious phenomenon and we must structure a hypothesis of crime that must be effective and, above all, applicable. What happens in Italy - and there are many testimonies about it - is that there are girls who perhaps come to confide, fortunately, to the teacher or companion of games that must go on a trip abroad, to the country of origin, in which they will be married. Luckily, these girls, who may have had access to culture from birth and had the opportunity to study, can understand that that marriage should not be done or that it is wrong. Let's think of those girls who instead are born and grow up with such a cultural level that they don't even realize they are victims of a criminal act. For this reason we hope that we do not limit ourselves to a motion: in fact, we must arrive at a bill as much as possible shared in order to foresee the possibility of crime, because also the journey must be stopped because. In fact, when any crime is committed in a foreign country, how do we punish it? Probably little girls haven't even come home yet, and we need to think about this profile, too. Unfortunately we know how things are going in Italy with regard to the control of the territory and the difficulty of managing foreign people who live or are here because of the now enormous phenomenon of migration. However, if we had a control of the territory, simply with a verification of the family states, you might know who lives within a family and how many children there are: if suddenly a child disappears from a family state you can understand where it goes. I think therefore of a control of the territory, a control of what happens in Italy. I therefore hope that the motion we are debating will be incorporated as soon as possible into the famous bill which we have tabled and for which we will insist both in the Committee on Justice and in this House that a rule be actually introduced. However, it will not be enough, because it is not enough a rule contained in the penal code: we need to make a huge campaign of awareness because these girls within the school must know what their rights are, especially to be children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u52	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before us today draws our attention to a phenomenon of a global nature and a global dimension, as they have rightly pointed out, with a wealth of details and also numbers, those colleagues who have moved forward before me in their speeches. I would like to add that the issue we are talking about today is indeed a global one, but unfortunately it also concerns our cities, our countries, the even small communities in which we live. Even in the door next to our home there may be cases such as those we try to represent with the global numbers we have quoted. It seems to me, therefore, that the initiative of my colleague Fedeli and the other Senator colleges that we are discussing today is particularly propitious and of great importance (and I thank them for this), and calls us as State and as Republic, to immediate action and at all levels. I agree with what has been said in this regard: it seems to me that an Italian law should be adopted as soon as possible on the model of the Swedish one, but properly Italianized, that sanctions these unacceptable practices. However, in addition, of course, to hope that this law will be passed within the parliamentary term, it seems to me that we should also add something else: pending its adoption, we cannot resign ourselves to inertia. There is a great deal of work to be done that requires the intervention of school authorities, teachers, health and social services, prosecutors and family doctors, as well as hospital doctors, to monitor and combat unacceptable practice. No one can call himself out, no one can turn to the other side or choose the strategy of silence, about which I propose a further and conclusive - as far as my speech is concerned - political reflection. The strategy of silence, unfortunately, is more extensive than it appears. It is the result of a cultural option that we must abandon. It is the option under which there is a misplaced sense of respect for different cultures that do not deserve to be respected. We must say this with great frankness and assertiveness: these are different cultures which, as bearers of values and practices that violate fundamental rights of the person, must not only not be respected, perhaps in the name of their diversity, but must be openly opposed and sanctioned. We are all called upon to do this, because we must all beware of cultures that propose unacceptable behaviour from the point of view of the protection of human rights and that, as cultures, they claim and, at times, manage to become practices and, as practices, sometimes claim and succeed in becoming law, even if they are self-determined and illegitimately determined laws. We must reiterate - Parliament must do so in the first place - that in the Republic no one has the right to proclaim his own law; that the only law is that of the Republic and that the law of the Republic is the law that resolves, in itself, all forms of legislation and that no other form of legislation is tolerated in the Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u55	Mr President, I would like to thank Vice-President Fedeli, Senator Fedeli, for being the inspiration of this motion, which I have truly signed with other colleagues and - I would stress this - other colleagues. On this subject, in fact, there can be no discrimination of interpretation or sensitivity. This is a theme that integrates the foundations of human rights, which, being fundamental, belong to everyone and to everyone. The data are certainly dramatic. They were recalled in the speeches that preceded me. Let's remember that every seven seconds in the world a girl under fifteen gets married, often with a man much older than her. To date we have more than 700 million married women before the age of eighteen, of whom one third are married before the age of fifteen. Of course, these statistics certainly do not respond accurately and punctually to the actual fact, and I must think that they can be nothing but underestimated. Due also to a future estimate, more than 950 million women are expected to be married and very young in 2030. And in 2050, even over 1.5 billion young minors will be forced into marriages that (it is important to recall the aggression) will be early and forced. This means that there is all the suffering that characterizes the issue worldwide. According to some - the famous owners of much more thought, those who believe that there are many other problems - dealing with these issues today, in international economic topicality, in national and European political dialectic, can represent an ancillary argument, that is to say going to occupy an underlying plan. It does not seem to me that way, because when a Senate Chamber discusses these issues, when it deals with fundamental rights, it recognizes the nobility not only of the subject, but also of the institution that the senators represent. Someone said that these data characterize only some parts of the world. It does not appear to me, because from a more in-depth investigation, if it is true that in sub-Saharan Africa there are approximately (and by default) 39 million early and forced marriages, it is equally true that, in the light of other data, Europe is not exempt from the phenomenon: in Europe we have quantified about 12 million of them; even less are exempt the Middle East, with 18 million, Latin America and the Caribbean with 25 million and South Asia with over 32 million. These are actually dramatic data that refer to cultural foundations, but I would not put the question in an exquisitely religious way, as they are divisive and conflictual, but according to a secular perspective: a secularity that makes us say that the fundamental rights that are not recognized and that are mortified and offended, have not only a place of religious order, but become the result of a culture in which some figures find themselves taking a subordinate position to others in the social order. I believe that this is the subject that must involve the Senate in the possible measures that will follow. I was very impressed by the report, which was also evoked in previous speeches, edited by Save the Children, in which three types of freedom are mentioned in particular: the first form of freedom - recalling with this also Isaiah Berlin and his famous essay "Two concepts of freedom" - is the so-called negative freedom, which consists in freeing oneself from violence; Save the Children talks about free from Harm. But we are also talking about a positive freedom, because without freeing ourselves from violence we are not even free to live and open ourselves to information, culture and education. Hence, we move from freedom from violence to freedom to live: free to live - as Save the Children says - and free to learn, that is, free to access educational sources. I think that's the main step. It is true, every time we discuss some issues, it is said that it is a subject of a cultural order: I agree that it is a topic of a cultural order, but a pre-political culture, which gives us the possibility, having outlined values and principles of reference, to truly combine politics with the common good. It's not just a national problem. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs is present today, not only because of his competence on the subject and because of his personal sensitivity, also as an institutional representation, but also because of the fact that this is clearly an issue that must also affect diplomacy and contacts at international level. In fact, it is true that culture is affirmed through the affirmation of certain principles (the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Convention on the Rights of Children and Adolescence), but it is also true that the United Nations Human Rights Council itself adopted on 1 July 2015 the first resolution on early and forced marriages. We ourselves have, by virtue of the Council of Europe Convention, implemented a law in Italy which ratified the Convention signed in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. The passage that I would like to stress, however, is the following: the affirmation of principles and the recognition of rights are certainly fundamental, but they cannot be exhaustive, because the principles and values of reference must not be imposed by force, but transmitted through a diplomatic, cultural and economic procedure that ensures that, through social development, the right consequences can be drawn. One might immediately think that there is an obvious disparity between a dimension of freedom declined in some realities of the world and a freedom denied in other realities of the world. However, I would not like this positive freedom of some realities in the world to be transferred to others in the sense of imposition, in the sense of command, even with the same violence. I believe that this is an important aspect, because the educational process and the cultural dimension pass through the bodies at international level, but they must be transferred and made their own through a process that requires not only diplomacy but also proper contacts. In fact, slowly with progress and evolution there is also the reduction, if not the disappearance, of an extremely dramatic phenomenon. I believe that this is one of the most characteristic aspects of this issue. I wanted to sign this motion firmly - as I said at the beginning of my brief speech - because it outlines very precise points of a path that Parliament itself can take to completion or that, through other types of measures, can make it possible to achieve such a desired result. In fact, in this motion the Government is asked to take action, in international fora, in order to ensure full respect, by the signatory countries, of the Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence; to take all appropriate initiatives for the full implementation of the resolution of the United Nations Human Rights Council, in the light of the serious violation of human rights, as well as of every principle of civilization, which involves the perpetuation of the practice of forced marriages; last, but not least, to evaluate in a synergistic exchange with Parliament the opportunity to equip Italy, in line with the virtuous example of Sweden (already mentioned), with a specific legislation, in order to configure as a new criminal case forced marriage and all related activities. Mr President, I only ask you for a few seconds, without going beyond the time I have been given. I would like to recall very briefly what Malala had to say in her speech at the Nobel Prize ceremony on 10 December 2014, at the age of just seventeen. There is a passage from his speech that I believe goes to nobly synthesize what I tried to pass on to colleagues: that it is the last time - as Malala says - that a child or a child spends their childhood in a factory, that it is the last time a child is forced to marry and that it is the last time an innocent child dies in war. What does that mean? It means that what we are dealing with today is one aspect, but it is not the only one, of all the violence and all the harassment (violence that is being administered), of all the marginality and all the abandonment that are the responsibility of adolescents and children. It is therefore a problem that involves us and makes Malala herself say: that this is the last time a class remains empty and that it is the last time a child is told that education is a crime and not a right. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u56	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u57	Mr President, I too would like to thank our Vice President, and I also feel like a co-star in this process. I would like to start with the words that Senator Romano has just said, because unfortunately, despite the deep sharing, conviction and recognition that the world has made to young Malala, his wish still today and still at this moment is betrayed. And it is betrayed because we said and repeated data that are not numbers: every seven seconds, so already during our comparison, how many girls were given in brides? Therefore, this mandate and this wish are still being betrayed and disappointed. I want to start again from what was written yesterday in an article by "Avvenire" according to which the men to whom these girls are given in brides are unknown who buy them as things in the market, who will use them as slaves, who will abuse them, who will deprive them of the possibility of studying and attending peers, who will force them to have early and unwanted pregnancies, with serious consequences, sometimes fatal. The vicious circle that concerns childhood marriages contains, therefore, a mixture of really bad factors: high possibility of school leaving, possibility of contracting really terrible venereal diseases, such as HIV, that in those countries still does not recognize the right to care, or to die due to complications during pregnancy or childbirth. We know, in fact, that the second cause of death for girls, after suicide, is represented precisely by pregnancy and childbirth. And all this has a beautiful fatherhood and motherhood defined: war, poverty, gender discrimination, lack of access to education. Sometimes, they are the same families that, in order to give a life hope to their daughter, give it up as an object, treating it as one thing. Let's see how much despair there is in this gesture. All this is also inexorably amplified and becomes particularly evident at tragic and wartime times, such as those that are now living in some countries in the world, such as Libya or Syria, where such practice, at times, represents the only way to save a girl from further filthiness, such as rape or violence, which unfortunately increase dramatically in cases of long and bloody armed conflicts. We also know how in certain countries, in Africa for example, some parents, deprived of any possibility of reaction (can not even defend themselves), are forced to suffer real kidnappings of their loved ones, to suffer a destiny that they certainly would not want. Lack of the minimum levels of education, poverty and the presence of cultures that often relegate women to the bottom of the social pyramid contribute to creating the fragility of which the girls, then, remain victims. While the problem of brides girls, on the one hand, affects some of the poorest countries in the world (they have been mentioned: Congo, Yemen, Niger and India on all), in others much richer there is the problem of increasing pregnancies in adolescent age, as in Australia or the United States. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm going to conclude. Returning to the problem of brides girls, we must note that even in our country, with the increase of immigration of people from the Indian subcontinent and Arab countries, bearers of cultures very different from ours, the phenomenon of forced marriages has increased. With the presence of the second generations marriage, combined, became forced. This implies a process of psychophysical violence, almost always unknown, of which we take consciousness and awareness only when there is an event of striking news, as we have seen. All this is not inescapable, you can and must change. In fact, the political choices of national governments can change things in the world: the first unavoidable option starts from the need to create adequate education and minimum indispensable levels. Let me just add that culture and education are the two pillars from which to start in order to change the lives of entire peoples and nations and to help achieve a more just world, without which there can be no peace. Only access to education for all those girls currently excluded can truly save the world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would ask the Presidency to allow the remaining part of the speech to be submitted to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u58	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u59	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo statee di Montelibretti, in the province of Rome, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, as we have already mentioned, we are focusing on early marriages, which represent a cultural phenomenon in some countries, especially Asia and Africa, but from which we too are not immune. It involves women and girls aged twelve to seventeen, who are literally taken away from their childhood and who are often subjected to abuse and violence. In addition to having to marry people they do not like, in a very fragile age, they suffer physical and psychological violence. The phenomenon is not only linked to war and poverty, but also often to ignorance and is supported by ancient, almost tribal laws, which, in the absence of an appropriate cultural level, are simply accepted and imposed on these girls, who have no power of choice, are isolated from civil society and deprived of childhood. This is the worst, because of course freedom and the possibility of self-determination are taken away from them. You can't deprive these girls of their affections, their family, of everything they had until then to hand them over to someone they don't want. Often, then, they are given over to another person because the family, perhaps, is poor and needs to raise money and in fact, when you marry a child, you get money from the person who takes her as a wife. The numbers of this practice are alarming. They are also cited by an article in Geneva's Espresso Nozzoli: according to the figures provided by Save the Children, India is in the lead with 47 percent of brides girls, follows Nigeria with 40, and they are over 50 percent in the Northwest regions of Ethiopia. But even more frightening are the numbers of girls who become mothers every year: 16 million between the fifteen and the nineteen years, over a million before the fifteen years. Consider the problems arising from childbirth, the complications of pregnancy and also suicides, since, of course, when these children are faced with an important experience such as motherhood, they often face death not only because an event such as motherhood, in such a young body, can have serious consequences, but also because, after giving birth, they suffer complications even psychological having to sustain an important physical and emotional load. There are cases of very young girls, belonging to families of immigrants but Italians, even for a couple of generations, forced to return to the country of origin to be given in brides. Let us be clear about two points: firstly, these are Italian girls who are the duty of the State to protect and protect. They are Italian in fact because often these girls live here, they are second-generation immigrants, but they do not have citizenship. Perhaps it would be appropriate to resume the discussion of the law on ius soli, which passed to the House but is still in the Senate. In fact, if we get to put that bill into effect, we could probably help these girls and make sure they're not "exported" to go marry someone who's in another country. Our civilization must be better than this, stronger than popular customs and beliefs and certainly must discourage any attitude of disinterest that masks itself behind the ridiculous comment: they are foreign. These girls not only lose their childhood, and at the same time their happiness, forever, but often risk their lives because of the violence and traumatic experience they have to endure at that age. Our instrument to oppose this reality, changing it to the best of hope, is the policy, the intervention of the legislator. We have this instrument and we are here on purpose. I gladly signed the motion by Vice-President Valeria Fedeli because I believe it is a step forward and a commitment that Parliament must make. It is also true that there are draft laws, as Senator Stefani recalled, with which, perhaps, one can begin to affect the penal code to punish those who actually implement these practices in our country (it is obvious that we cannot punish those who are in other countries with different cultures). But let's give a good example: precisely because we are a country that welcomes those who come from other countries with cultures and religions very different from our own and precisely because we want to include these people, give them citizenship and make sure that they respect our culture and our way of life, it would be advisable to give them first of all the famous ius soli to affiliate them and trust them to the culture of our country. At the same time, a law would be needed to punish those who, in some way, force the girls to marry against their own will. I fully agree with Senator Padua, but also with others who have raised the issue of education. Of course, culture must be encouraged. Precisely because our country has opened up to the world and welcomes people from other cultures, it is necessary to leave our territory to ensure that there is better education also for people living in a family environment and in a cultural and religious context different from ours. It is necessary to affect sentimental education and especially men who often do not have the sense of modesty. I as a woman, beyond the fact that I am Italian, but fortunately women in general, would never marry a 12-year-old or a 16-year-old. On the contrary, the male does not seem to have this sense of modesty: he quietly approaches to having sexual relations with women aged fifteen or sixteen, when perhaps he is twenty-four, or marries very small women. I believe, therefore, that a sentimental education is important in respect of the parties, and this work must be done together with men precisely to create a respect for feelings and to ensure that these things do not happen. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Cervellini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u61	She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion by Senator Fedeli, of whom I am co-signatory and to whom I am referring, intends to commit the Government on three points to the phenomenon of brides girls, whose figures were reported yesterday, following the report released on Tuesday by Save the Children, on the occasion of the International Day of Girls and Girls. The statistics bring to our attention very worrying average data, but the individual data, too frequently, are frightening: girls given in marriage even at six / eight years, forced to sexual intercourse on the very night of marriage, forced by a husband who neither know nor even freely chose, in spite of the laws in force in their respective countries and agreements between families. In this regard I would like to recall the dramatic story of the Iranian girl Zeinab Sekaanvand Lokran, who could be executed just today for killing her husband, after having suffered an early forced marriage, shock and violence repeatedly denounced. The problems, however, do not concern only early marriages and maternity, which, because of the physical structure still to be developed and the immature physiological condition of the mothers girls, pose enormous risks to their health and to their lives and their children. Unicef has reported that girls between the ages of five and fourteen are employed 40 percent more than the time (about 160 million more hours a day), compared to boys of the same age group, in unpaid household jobs as well as in the collection of water and wood. It is estimated that girls between the ages of ten and fourteen in South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa are occupied about twice the time in household chores compared to boys, and that only one female every three males attend secondary school. The UN Agency assumes that an improvement of this figure of 10% would raise GDP by 3%, but this argument is not worth, nothing to do; within a bleak situation for children in poor countries - according to a UNICEF-World Bank report, 385 million children live in extreme poverty - that of girls represents a doubly losing position. Mr President, I have asked to speak because I want to strongly appeal to the Government to commit itself to this motion, but I would also like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of my fellow Members and colleagues to the motion that we debated yesterday in this House and with which the Government is committed in the fight against obesity. I do this to point out that within two days we have dealt, on the one hand, with the symptoms and effects of a civilization that is lost in the spiral of wasted resources; resources wasted to fill with junk food the void of the non-sense of its existence, to promote campaigns in favor of healthy lifestyles and nutrition, to cure diseases related to obesity: how much money spent in laxatives, antidepressants, aesthetic surgery, gym, well-being, junk food! And I don't extenuate the reasoning. On the other hand, today we are dealing with the effects of a civilization that disappears in the spiral of poverty, because we remember that that of the bride and groom girls is a phenomenon largely linked to poverty, which accentuates, playfully, the criticalities linked to their culture and their religion; a civilization that is erased in the spiral of hunger, denigration and denied rights. The rights of children and children, of teenagers, must be defended. Their safety must be absolutely safeguarded, their future must be built day by day. Politics must be activated so that at the international level, as in our country, we are endowed with instruments of planning and of contrast, but it will always be a work done only in half, if these discussions and these commitments are not also an opportunity to highlight our direct responsibility for the condition of extreme poverty in those countries. It's a look in the face of our hypocrisy. These moments of debate must also constitute a precise appointment with the updated reading of our history, also and especially the recent one, and in which we must not miss the opportunity to reflect critically on our consumption patterns, on our solutions to the current crisis, on our condition of life, on our privileges, which we sometimes turn into rights that, if seen in a historical and systemic way, are in reality indefensible and in clear contradiction with our various positions. The time at my disposal does not allow me to face the reasonings to which I have generically mentioned in closing, but let us not forget to illuminate also this visual. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u63	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u64	Mr President, I want to start by telling you a story, that of Rubina, of 400 euros and a bicycle. Rubina was a child like many; her only problem was to be born in a state, Bangladesh, where her dignity as a child was trampled on a daily basis. For some years now, in fact, Rubina, in the middle of her blossom, was molested by men and boys from her village. The family, then, decided to give her a present on her 12th birthday: to counter the harassment she suffered daily in her village and not to muddle the name of the descendants, it was decided that it was time to give her as a wife. No one asked little Rubina her opinion and no one wondered what her will was. So Rubina, recently 12 years old, was forced to contract marriage giving goodbye forever to her childhood, bringing in dowry 400 euros and a bicycle. Rubina was like a girl, she went to school and played with her friends. It was precisely the school, and in particular a professor, that wanted to bring it back to the benches of his class. And thanks to this intervention the parents decided to postpone the early wedding. But, like any bad story, an unpleasant epilogue comes. The little one was increasingly absent from the lessons; absence that the family masked with diseases and banal excuses. Then, the good teacher knocked once again at Rubina's house to ask for explanations, but he was told that his grandparents were celebrating the end of Ramadan. Back in school, discomfortable, the schoolmates told him a chilling truth: the child had married and now lived with her husband, a much older adult man. At this point the professor returned to the house of little Rubina and tried to have confirmation: after several insistences, the mother admitted the marriage of her daughter. A month later, Rubina chose to die. Rubina's suicide can be considered a defeat for everyone. A defeat for the family that tried to protect her and that forced her, at just twelve years, to marry a man much older than her, in violation of the law of Bengali, a law that exists on paper and that remains there because it is not respected. A defeat for women who in Bangladesh, and unfortunately not only there, have to hide a body that changes with growth. A defeat for that stubborn professor and for the whole school, who failed to save the child, despite the plans against abandonment. A defeat for associations like Terre des Hommes who carry out information campaigns on the trafficking of brides girls who end up in the brothels of the cities, or exploited in the factories of the capital. But above all, Rubina's death is a defeat for everyone, all those who today have the chance to do something and turn on the other side. "We tried to help her without success" - said the volunteers of the Terre des Hommes association - "but this strengthens even more our conviction that her companions, and young girls from all over the world, need more than ever to be protected, supported and helped to become the protagonists of the future." Then we in this House can finally work for all those girls like Rubina, who, in order to escape inhumane situations, prefer to take the path of suicide. It is worth repeating what we can do and what this Government can do today so that no one can tell again the story of Rubina or another like her. What do we ask? We call on the Commission to act, through the use of all useful means, in the competent national and international bodies, to ensure that tangible steps are taken to combat the phenomenon of bride and groom girls, gender violence against women and historically unequal power relations between genders, especially in advance, through the adoption of effective policies and concrete measures to be implemented especially in the most endangered territories, following the precepts contained in the Istanbul Convention and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. 11:46 a.m. (Following WOMAN). This is an important step, because it is absurd that these deaths should still be mourned in the current global social and cultural context. It is therefore essential to take all necessary action to ensure that the institutions, bodies and competent organisations, the data relating to the phenomenon of children's spouses, as well as the subsequent monitoring, study and control, are properly collected in order to effectively impede this repeated violation of human rights. Only with the cards in hand will we be able to understand the real scope of the phenomenon, so far obscure. It is also necessary to encourage, through the active involvement of recognised international governmental and non-governmental organisations, an effective education plan for the rights of the most exposed age groups, for the strengthening of civic awareness, starting from school age, of the autonomy and self-determination of women also in the area of sexual and reproductive health. These points are crucial to achieving gender equality. It is also important to ensure that, starting from the national context, where a preceptical vacuum is found, every country currently inoperous implementations in a punctual and binding way its own regulatory framework, through the prediction of specific criminal cases, sufficiently sanctioned, on forced marriage. In every nation we must finally write in cubital characters the word end to this abominable practice, which must find an arrest with certain convictions. It is necessary to guarantee and promote, even in the appropriate extraterritorial areas, a special protection and guarantee of anonymity for all girls and girls who intend to denounce crimes and threats, including through a specific commitment of reception and appropriate transmission by healthcare professionals. Homerhood is one of the factors that most hinders the emergence of the phenomenon and reality. The small women of tomorrow, unwed brides of today, must be put in a position to tell about the abuses and feel protected. Last but not least, in the context of dialogue and confrontation between the nations in the field of health and protection of rights, in the case of the life danger of the underage mother exposed to violence and coercion and of the fetus, in the presence of adequate sanitary conditions, the recognition of the practice of termination of pregnancy, as well as a suitable subsequent path of psychosocial assistance. The body of these girls cannot bear the weight of such a physical and moral violation, as they come out disfigured, with scars that really imprint themselves in the body and that remain forever in the soul. Today, in the wake of the International Day of Girls and Girls, this Assembly has a duty to restore to these girls the dignity that has been taken away from them. Only in this way will a shred of justice be done in the name of Rubina. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u65	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u66	Madam President, I have asked to speak now because, having to preside over the continuation of the work, I will not be able, under our rules, to take part in the vote. I am in favour of this initiative and of the motions and wanted it to remain a trace of this position, as it is a matter of high civil and moral value. The initiative started with the motion tabled by Vice President Fedeli, followed by those of other groups. My Group has also called for discussion at the Conference of Leaders because this is a very important issue, but we must not ignore the context in which we are discussing these issues. Motions are obviously global, because they appeal to countries that do not know how much they will receive from our debate. Political discussions in Parliament are also aimed at protecting great principles, beyond the practical consequences of what is happening. We do not know whether our appeal to international bodies and communities from other countries will be accepted, but it is our duty to activate this process and encourage it. However, we must note - and I would like to be very clear - that there are situations in some parts of the world - this morning's debate shows this - where certain practices of forced marriage and abuse of minors are part of cultures that consider it normal. From the point of view of an anthropological study - we are not in a university seminar, but in the Senate of the Italian Republic - we could study the behaviour of peoples and transformations. There are, therefore, situations of peoples and evolutions of civilizations and behaviors. We believe that what we are saying is correct and the motions call for international conventions, confirming the correctness of avoiding forced marriages and that minors are led to choices of this kind, but others, on the other hand, believe that this is normal. The debate is not trivial and the references of the motions to international acts show that it is not just our view - right and important - but widely shared. However, we note that there are peoples and realities where this is normal and we must also consider it in relation to Italy. In fact, we have also witnessed Italian events. Even in Italy it can be said that forced marriage was part of an ancient inculturation or that in the face of attempts to prevent a marriage the interested ones fled to create the de facto state, which then led to the repairing marriage. We've had experiences of all kinds. We could quote literature and constraints of various kinds. The monk of Monza is an aulic and high example of compulsion. In time, the costume and behavior changed. If today an Italian father or mother were to force an adult daughter, who would have even wider freedom of choice - if underage is even more serious - to do things that were not shared, they would commit crimes. In fact, we have legislation of this kind and a social custom. Then, it may also be that in some remote country in the North, Central or South Italy there is some girl who is being pressed by her parents for a certain marriage. But there are communities that come from abroad to Italy and behave in this way. I remember the case of Hina Saleem, killed in Brescia with the ritual satisfaction of the family and of the same mother who was right to the father even when there were arrests because, according to them, it was right that the daughter did what her father imposed and then returned to Pakistan to marry those who had chosen her parents. The mother was right in her father's inculturation. Therefore, when we talk about citizenship in Italy, about laws and initiatives to do quickly, let's think about it. I defend the laws that in Italy require a certain time, certain years of residence to give citizenship, because citizenship is also the sharing of a model of civilization and law. So, be careful who we make become a citizen of Italy to avoid "importing" citizens who do things that we despise for the whole world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u68	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank you for the motion that you, together with other colleagues, have tabled and that I have firmly signed. An important motion, which places at the centre of parliamentary action the scourge of early marriages, putting at the center of our attention and our action the overall theme of children's rights, of that higher interest of the child which is a founding element of international conventions as well as national laws, but which unfortunately is often contradicted in everyday reality by adult-centred cultural and political attitudes; those attitudes that bend the child's superior right to one's own wishes, personal conveniences and opinions. (at 12 p.m.) (Mattesini followed). The plague of early marriages is one of the many rights denied to childhood. Just think of the subject of child soldiers, child labour, abuse, abuse, child prostitution. But within the rights denied to children, the rights of girls are even more trampled on and the scourge of early marriages is exactly one of these denied rights. This is a terrible violation of the children's human rights; girls who are being stolen from their lives. It is a theft of life, because they are denied the possibility of dreaming and planning their own life, as well as of progressing, of improving their own future and of being master of their own destiny. Early marriage in fact blocks their educational and educational path and compromises their psychophysical health. I remember that every year 70,000 girls die from birth and pregnancy causes. I would like to remind you that most of the countries in which early marriage is practised are also countries where the use of infibulation is very high, with all the psycho-physical and health consequences that this entails. The consequences of early marriage naturally concern the girls who suffer it, but go beyond their lives as brides girls because they also affect generations after their own. In fact, brides girls are forced to leave school and this limits not only their personal future perspective, but also their ability and possibility to raise children in a free way, to contribute to their own social and economic growth and their children. The children of an unliterated child mother, in fact, will not in turn have an easy entry into school or, worse, the daughters of an illiterate child bride will much more easily abandon school, marry young people and start again that vicious circle of poverty and fundamental denial of human rights. We, even with this motion and with the acts that will follow, want to break this vicious circle, restoring to the girls their right to be such, their right to choose who to love and when to love when the time comes, their right to grow up becoming free and autonomous women. The international community, as another colleague recalled, has committed itself to ending early marriages by 2030. However, if the trend remains the current one, in 2030 we will have 950 million brides girls; 250 million more than the current figure. What is needed is a series of actions, but in the first place a battle of a cultural character in the world, but also in Italy. Even in Italy we must open our eyes, not close them, we must explore and monitor the reality well. That reality that describes the work of many associations, which tells us that even in Italy, due to the increase in the immigration of families from the Asian subcontinent and from some to the Arab countries, has developed and has increased the phenomenon of forced marriages. It is really important this motion, which commits the Government to take action in international fora also in order to ensure full respect for the Conventions on the rights of children and adolescence, as well as to equip Italy, in analogy with the choices of Sweden, with legislation that constitutes forced marriage and all related activities as a new criminal case. Alongside this, however, we need a collective responsibility of all institutions and civil society. I say this also in response to the concerns expressed by Senator Gasparri a moment ago with regard to the question of who we integrate and who we give citizenship; I think this is a fundamental element and it is necessary to approve quickly the measure on citizenship that is not only a right because it also makes new duties take place. Along with this, it is also important to promote and support strong integration action, starting primarily from support for the full integration of migrant women, for example by strengthening the teaching of the Italian language everywhere. I believe that, alongside this, we should further promote and support international cooperation, as this Government has done, also through targeted action by remote adoptions, in order to promote the continuation of studies, also supporting young girls already married. I will end with an appeal to the Government and Parliament, asking for full and immediate support at the battle of Amnesty International to save Zeinab Sekaanvand, one of the 15 million brides girls, sentenced to death - I believe today is the day of the execution of the sentence - because when she was seventeen she would have killed her husband, after months of physical and psychic violence. I use the verb to conditional, because it is yet another case of forced marriage, but also of lack of rights: she had in fact confessed the crime after being raped by police officers. I therefore think that this can be the first concrete act of political action, also at international level, which really promotes the cancellation of the ignoble practice of early marriage, in order to give everyone the right to live their lives fully and freely. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u69	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward. We shall then proceed to the explanations of vote and then to the next item on the agenda, on ratifications of international agreements. I would urge Members to take this into account for the duration of their speeches so that we can complete the discussion of the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u70	Mr President, on motion 637 at the first signature of Senator Fedeli, the opinion is in favour. On motion 649, at the first signature of Senator Donno, I am in favour of rewording. With regard to the provision containing commitments to the Government, I welcome the first four points. On the fifth point, I am in favour, but I propose a rewording, aimed at concealing the words "to guarantee" up to "medical profession" by replacing them with the following paragraph: It strengthens and strengthens the preventive and repressive means of protection of the rights of victims of the crimes in question, also assessing possible ways of involving and engaging members of the medical profession. On the sixth point, the opinion is favourable, provided that the following rewording is accepted: it commits the Government to support, in harmony with national provisions, also in the context of dialogue and confrontation between nations in the field of health and protection of rights, in the case of danger of life of the underage mother exposed to violence and coercion and of the fetus, in the presence of adequate hygienic conditions, the recognition of the practice of termination of pregnancy as well as an appropriate and subsequent path of psycho-social assistance. On motion No 650, at the first signature of Senator Barani, the opinion on the first point of the device is in favour, provided the following rewording is accepted: it commits the Government to promote respect for the Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence and the principles of the resolution "Child, Early and Forced Marriages." The opinion was opposed to the second point. On the third point, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: it commits the Government to undertake, together with the Parliament, a path to verify the situation in Italy with the associations operating on the territory. On the fourth point, the opinion was in favour. Mr President, I would like to suggest that Senator Barani, after having also done so with the presenters of the other motions in view of the aims which, from the textual point of view and of the message, are very similar or, better, can be integrated with the first-signed motion of Senator Fedeli, a convergence between the two texts, for a united motion. This is an invitation that I have also addressed to other presenters, because I believe that this strengthens the message, not only of the sitting that we are doing, but also in view of the preparation of subsequent legislative acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u74	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday, for the International Day of Girls and Girls, Save the Children gave a few issues on early marriages. In this morning's debate, the dramatic cases of some girls in particular were also widely mentioned, but few of them have been known. I think of Rubina, the little girl who hanged herself in the house of those same parents who gave her to the man who had been forced to marry; or the even more dramatic case of Rawan, who died at only eight years of age on her first wedding night, whose death was caused by the bleeding due to the injuries caused by sexual intercourse with her 40-year-old husband. The numbers that call us to a dramatic reality are those for which every seven seconds a girl under fifteen gets married; over a million girls become mothers before the fifteen years and 70,000 young people between the fifteen and the nineteen years lose their lives each year due to causes related to pregnancy. The poorest countries hold the sad record: from African countries to India, which holds the very little enviable record of the highest number ever, with 47 percent of the girls (more than 24.5 million) married before they turned 18 and even less than ten, as well as in Afghanistan, Yemen and Somalia. These are dramatic numbers, which cannot pass under silence. The motions under consideration today concern just one of the dramas of our era, a drama that certainly affects geographical areas of the world where underdevelopment, ignorance, prejudices (sometimes also of a religious character) orientate towards certain types of choices, but it is a problem that unfortunately comes to interest also countries like ours with the spread of migratory phenomena. The consequences for these girls are tremendous from the point of view of schooling, with the end of every educational project and with it of every real possibility of getting out of a condition of subdiction and dependence; in practice, it is the prospect for these girls to remain almost slaves for life, without even being able to dream of a different solution for their future. Not to mention the health and psychological consequences, which are no less terrible, because even where abortion is not used, pregnancy at such an early age constitutes a greater risk from the point of view of health for the child that will be born, as well as for his mother. What to do? Motions invite us to act. We must engage in those countries where this practice is hidden, in those where it is widespread, including those which have established by law the minimum age for marriage, compulsory education and yet are faced with a reality in which traditional norms of the cultural order continue to prevail over good approved laws. Prevention, school and the educational system, in which there is a higher chance of getting in touch with minors and young people destined for marriage against their will, are fundamental. These are complex interventions, not simple ones, that bring into play emotional ties with the family, move in a difficult, slippery terrain, between attachment and rejection of tradition, in that frontier of the confrontation between original identity and modernity of Western culture. The school may also be a place where the formation of a conscience of rights takes place, which values the value of women's free choice of life from a small point of view, in which even families themselves can be opened up in dialogue, exchange and contamination: they are all complex themes, but this society must make the effort to deal with them. Awareness-raising campaigns are also important, but material conditions are also needed to ensure protection, where there may be a complaint or rebellion. In short, it is the principles of society that must change, because it is true that when we practice barbarism we become barbaric, but it is also true that those who tolerate barbarism in silence become barbaric. Then, once again, we are waiting for a journey of civilization and much commitment, what our own history requires us to face, in order to face, in the phenomenon of immigration that our country suffers, also this. The question of immigration has in fact put to the attention of our country dramatic practices that take place in the silence of our cities, such as that of the infibulation. Many communities, in fact, self-protection, protecting themselves and preventing our social forces - those sentries on the territory that are us, the police and security forces and many other institutions, including school - and to our eyes and our ears to hear, perpetuate in our country their traditions and their so-called civilization. And we in the confrontation between civilizations, in hosting these people and the great phenomenon of immigration, wonder about what integration really is and whether we by integration mean by chance - I hope not - the tolerance of these practices. With regard to the motions presented this morning, I should like to mention in particular the first one by Vice-President Fedeli - whom I had the pleasure of signing - which first brought to the attention of this House an issue which seems so far away from us but which, in fact, is so close. It does not mark the presumption of wanting to change the culture and traditions of others, but it marks, instead, the great ambition to see the fundamental and fundamental rights of every woman and of every age, protected and guaranteed in all countries, starting from our own. This morning's debate, precious for the contributions of men and women, who in their parliamentary mandate look with attention to the suffering humanity that this practice tells, both the beginning of a very rapid legislative path, so that our country is not among the indifferent countries and is soon endowed - very soon - with a law that sanctions that in our country any violence against women, of any kind and from anyone who comes, is strictly forbidden and punished by law. Thank you, President Fedeli, and thank you to the colleagues who have further enriched this debate with the presentation of their motions. Thanks above all to my fellow men who have spoken in this debate, who show us that this issue cannot belong only to women, but rather to humanity as a whole. In declaring my vote in favour of the motion tabled by Vice-President Fedeli and, of course, also to the other motions presented if they do not converge in a single summary, which I too hope, I especially thank the Presidency of the Senate, who so promptly wanted to schedule this debate. [[Applause from the CoR and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u77	Since a Presidency Council will shortly be convened, I call on all my colleagues to respect the time allocated to them. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in order to resume the speech that has already been put forward in general debate, it is truly surprising that in 2016 it is known that the penal code does not provide for a crime such as the induction of a minor's marriage or the induction of a trip to marriage. It seems almost like an act of civilization or, perhaps, for years it has been thought that the phenomenon could affect only foreign countries, which we mentioned earlier: Niger, Chad, Bangladesh. Unfortunately, the phenomenon has intensified. It is a phenomenon that, surely, cannot but be related to immigration: an immigration and a migration that have led almost entire peoples to move from one area to another of the world, arriving in a territory like the Italian one where there is risk that there is not even control of the same. When there is no control over the territory, there is no control over what happens inside it, because probably, if one wonders if any child in Italy can marry some man, maybe we escape the very existence of that child and these foreigners. We do not even know, sometimes, what happens inside the mosques and places of worship; we do not know whether we are celebrating weddings. That is why I call on all Members to vote in favour of the motions before us. I also hope that a joint motion can be reached, that it will mean the common will to achieve the objective. As long as we do not have precise rules, we will not be able to prosecute certain crimes. Suffice it to say that to date some conducts can be at most incriminated as ill-treatment in the family, with mockery of the severity of the episodes. It is right to remind colleagues also of news not long ago, when a child in Ravenna married at the age of twelve to pay a debt. We are faced with a series of problems, the first of which is to be traced back to a culture that admits that a child can marry. The second problem is that now some fringes of our society are in a situation of poverty, one of the evils, colleagues, that most invest the female world all over the planet, because 80% of the poor are women. In foreign countries, where these phenomena are unfortunately widespread, in addition to the practice of female genital mutilation and other cultural situations in which women are discriminated against (more than discrimination, I would say almost assimilation to little more than a beast), the cultural factor combines with extreme poverty. Therefore, the task of the whole international community is to educate people, because only culture and education, besides of course the economic resources to raise certain realities, make a people grow. So alongside the motion that we are about to vote - which we hope will never remain a dead letter or a mere commitment to evaluate and consider - we must arrive at a bill, as much as possible shared, for the prediction of such crimes in Italy. There must be an awareness-raising campaign in addition to this. In fact, it seems strange to have to talk about it in 2016, but probably within some families of foreign origin, with a culture so very different from ours, the girls do not know that they can say no to a forced marriage. It is therefore necessary to find a way of protecting them, allowing them to file anonymous complaints or by ensuring that someone denouncing these facts. In fact, colleagues, a child, a child does not denounce the father or the mother; it will be necessary for the teacher, the teacher, the schoolmate or the parents of the schoolmate to give support to the child or to the child who are forced to convolute to weddings not wanted; not only not wanted by them, but incompatible with their own nature of children, because taking away their chance to grow and live childhood and adolescence means really taking away their future just when they should stand out the flight. We must fight the causes that lead to these episodes; we must fight that kind of culture and traditions, which at the origin led to believe that children and girls can even get to the wedding, and then eventually they are victims of continuous daily violence. Imposing a pregnancy to a child of nine, ten or eleven years, with a possibility of very high death, is in fact one of the most serious violence; and it is not only violence towards that person, but it is violence towards civilization. We certainly need to take into account the fact that there are very worrying original cultures and matrixes. All we remember is that Muhammad married Aisha when she was six years old, but took care to consume the marriage when she was nine; and this is written on a text of a religious nature. These phenomena represent religious questions, but they also become of culture. In Italy, fortunately, our culture and our society have evolved, but we must also bring to this goal those who did not have this possibility. The only way to defend such people is through clear and strict rules and decisive positions. In fact, if you start to think that there can still be a justification due to the original culture, gentlemen, you don't go anywhere. In fact, it is not us who should adapt to a certain type of culture and uncivilized traditions, but it is we who should teach that culture and civilization that we are fortunate to have at present. So the whole Group of the North League will vote in favour of the motions that have been tabled, and above all in favour of the one that also bears our signature, hoping for a sharing of all intents and to be able to reach a single motion. In any event, we shall vote in favour of all the motions tabled. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u80	Longo Eva (AL-A). Mr President, my Group welcomes the request made by the representative of the Government: we withdraw our motion No 650 and sign Senator Fedeli's motion No 637. I would also ask you to be able to give the text of my explanation of vote in favour, so that it can be annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AL-A and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u81	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u84	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Senators and Senators of the Italian Left will vote with conviction on the first-signed motion by Vice President Fedeli and the first-signed motion by Senator Donno. As a Senate, we considered the debate and debate held, a few days after the International Day of Girls and Girls promoted by the UN, absolutely appropriate. The estimates were quoted by many: Unicef says that 700 million women were married before they turned 18. Every year, 15 million girls and girls contract marriage practically at a very low age than 18 years. The consequences are dramatic for their lives and health, as well as for their education and safety. They are data that make you tremble and make you say once again that maybe unfortunately to be born a woman, to be born a girl, is still a disgrace. It is data that we often ignore and that does not concern, as someone wants to make believe, maybe only other countries. We know perfectly well the data from Nigeria, Ethiopia and Asia. However, these data also relate to other countries (I mean here forcefully), and I am thinking of Turkey, with which, through the European Union, we have entered into a shameful agreement for the detention of migrants. I want to read the data concerning Turkey. We are talking about 181,000 brides girls each year under the age of sixteen; 97 percent of school dropouts are for girls. I quote Turkey to reiterate that we must not, at a time when - I hope - all of us will approve these motions, think that we have washed our consciences, saying: Today we have done our job well. We must then be a consequence of foreign policy choices and of our economic partners. The phenomenon affects girls and girls in their fundamental rights, health and education, preventing them from living in childhood, realizing dreams and projects. All this is accompanied by the abandonment of the school. They are forced to suffer domestic violence, abuse, rape, and incur early pregnancy. They are particularly exposed to sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV. In addition, administrative and legal barriers and sociocultural and religious practices in many countries prevent many girls and girls from accessing sexual and reproductive health services, such as HIV tests and contraceptive methods. This is a phenomenon that we can add to the general picture of girls, who cannot express themselves freely, nor can they be involved in decision-making processes, both public and private. This means that, at the level of public office, only 23% of MEPs worldwide are women. War is an element that significantly worsens the conditions of girls and girls. The latest UN figures show that 6% of Syrian girls between the ages of twelve and seventeen were forced to an early marriage in Lebanon; and this is another drama in the drama of war. But behind every figure, every data, there is a face, a story. Many of my colleagues have done well today to mention specific cases, because these numbers must be given a face. If it wasn't for the war, I wouldn't have married so young. The war destroyed my life and that of all the Syrians, says Afrah, a baby bride, fled from Al Rastan, city of West Syria, stronghold of the rebels, and sheltered in the district of Akkara, in northern Lebanon; fled and then found herself in another hell, made of violence, abuse, loneliness, because she was forced to marry as a child. All this must not only make us think today, but must also lead us to be consequent. The brides girls are the most marginalized and vulnerable subjects of society: they almost always belong to the poorest classes. In order to stem this phenomenon, I think it is necessary - as is clear from the motion we have signed - not only to take action in international fora to ensure full respect by the signatory countries for the Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence, not only to take all initiatives for the full implementation of the resolution of the United Nations Human Rights Council and to ensure that from today's debate there is a commitment to include in our penal code this new criminal case, forced marriage (this too, unfortunately, is a phenomenon now present in our country). We need to be clear that the fundamental issues we need to address in order to combat this phenomenon - and we know that it will be a long and complex path - call for a great battle for information and awareness that allows all women, including girls, to know their rights. We need a great battle for education, because only through a strong ability to guarantee access to school and education will we be able to give these girls a new awareness and also the tools for their liberation and to fight against all prejudices, to make sure that in the world it is no longer a disgrace, as the data tell us, to be born a woman. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, let us greet the students and teachers of the State Technical Institute for Industry, Antonio Pacinotti, Scafati, in the province of Salerno, who are witnessing our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u88	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the Group of the People's Area supports your request and, therefore, I would ask you to be able to give the text of my speech in an explanation of vote in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. Allow me, however, to thank our vice-president, Fedeli, for today has shaken us a little by the torpor. Very important things have been said that we feel ourselves, considering that as Italian legislators we also have a great responsibility in the foreign field. The People's Area Group will therefore vote strongly in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Fedeli, whom we have signed. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u89	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the text of its explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u92	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, there are 700 million women in the world who have been married before the age of eighteen, and 17% - 125 million of them - live in Africa; one out of three of these very young African women has been married before the age of fifteen. In Mauritania, 60 percent of teenagers have a husband at least ten years older. In Nigeria alone, there are 23 million brides. Well, at last this issue, this violation of human rights that affects children, has been addressed in this House today. The phenomenon is proving to be in all its gravity in the present and we have taken note of it today throughout the debate and in the illustrations of the motions. There is a risk of reaching even more alarming figures in the future, given the growing link between this shameful phenomenon and the poorest sections of the population, which are constantly growing, especially in peripheral and rural areas. We have said many in this House that every seven seconds in the world, a girl under fifteen is getting married and, if the appropriate measures required by the motions are not implemented, we will have 950 million very young married women in 2030. These are the data from Save the Children's investigation. It is important that we reflect on the fact that wars and humanitarian crises fuel this phenomenon. We also thank my colleague Senator Fedeli for having tabled a motion that highlights the need for initiatives to combat forced marriages that young women are forced to do. Therefore, it is urgent to put an end to these forced marriages, identifying effective assistance measures appropriate to the poorest and most marginalized girls, promoting preventive interventions aimed mainly at quality education, which unfortunately, in our country, is no longer there. In fact, within schools, in the world of education, instead of guaranteeing opportunities and opportunities to give children greater awareness of human rights and their rights, unfortunately, as we have seen, there is a breakdown. Children's lives are at stake, but also the future of communities, including that of our country. Every child bride represents an individual tragedy; we have also heard from our colleague Donno a demonstration of what happens, but it is just an example. Unfortunately, up to now Italy has not made a great commitment to turn the spotlight on this situation. For this reason, in the light of these brief considerations, we ask the Government for precise commitments to initiate an overall and rigorous collection of data (and there is really a collection of data related to the phenomenon of the brides girls) and to activate as soon as possible the monitoring and study required in the motion aimed at countering the repeated violation of human rights. We call for a series of effective prevention policies, inspired by the precepts contained in the Istanbul Convention and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, to be implemented in the most endangered territories, especially by the encouragement of a plan of education for the rights of the most exposed age groups, for a strengthening of civic consciousness, starting from school age, autonomy, self-determination of women, including in terms of sexual and reproductive health, and also for the achievement of true gender equality. A timely regulatory framework is needed, through the provision of specific criminal cases. Sweden, on 27 May, adopted special legislation for this purpose, providing for an ad hoc crime for those who induce or force marriage. In Italy this serves. The debate was rich and fruitful in this House and we were also pleased to note the willingness of the Government to accept the commitments. But we hope that concrete commitments will be put in place as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u95	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak because it is very serious what is being released on the web. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, we're in the process of an explanation of vote. WOMAN (M5S). Mr. President, let me talk. It is inherent in what we are dealing with today; it is truly hallucinating what we read. I am referring to an announcement on eBay, a newborn for sale at 5,000 euros. The newborn, to which I am referring, has 40 days of life and it seems that the German police are investigating the matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, senator. WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I'm sorry, but it's very important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You are right, but, unfortunately, I fear that such cases are well known. It has had the opportunity to denounce this fact to the House, it has done well; it is a serious matter and we take note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u98	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too welcome your call for brevity. I therefore request that the text of my explanation of vote be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Like Mrs Bianconi, I would not like to miss the opportunity to thank our vice-president, Fedeli, the first signatory and author of this motion for a resolution, which is very important to us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And that is why I would like to acknowledge the sensitivity of Vice President Fedeli, who stressed one point, that not only cannot be forgotten, but above all cannot be underestimated. I would just like to add one thing in order to give this House a reflection which - in my opinion - we should take up again with future legislative initiatives. We cannot ignore that in the world, every seven seconds, a child under the age of fifteen is given in a forceful way in early marriage, and that more than a million children under the age of fifteen suffer equally forceful pregnancies. These are objective data. Senator Fedeli must be given credit today, and of course all of us, whom you have urged, to have put the spotlight on this issue, but it would be absolutely useless if we did not give a legislative follow-up to what we are talking about today. Personally, I have never been in favour of selective pan-criminalisation, i.e. the identification of micro-criminals for each case. There is a penal code, there are general cases which can cover most of the criminal cases. But in this particular case we have some significant examples: we have them in the Nordic countries, such as Sweden, which rightly cited Vice President Faithful, but we also have them in Germany, where there is the criminal offence of early and forced marriage. In delivering all the considerations, which have been expressed in an excellent way by the colleagues who have spoken in general debate and during the explanations of vote, I would nevertheless like to invite all of us to move forward on this path; a right path that affects our hearts, our consciences and our personal sensitivity, but which must also touch on our sensitivity as legislators. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, PD and AP(NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u101	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, I too would ask you to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the report of today's sitting to respond to the appeal you have made to us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Maturani (PD). However, allow me to make very few comments. The debate in this House has been rich and the important, crucial points that concern the dramatic phenomenon we are discussing have been touched on. I would like to remind you that the brides girls are girls to whom all rights are taken in the most vulnerable age: the right to childhood, to play, to carefreeness, to education the possibility of choosing, to love, to decide about one's life and one's body; slaves of fathers before and husbands after, and often slaves of mother-in-laws, sister-in-laws, women who should accompany them and help them. The motion we have discussed, and for which I too thank Vice President Faithful very much remembering that I have signed it, I believe it contains the very important and fundamental issues. By approving this motion, we call for the promotion and strengthening of the protection of rights and gender equality, the human rights of women and girls, their empowerment in all areas, their strengthening and their strength. It is essential that the international commitments made are met and supported financially and politically. Our country and our government play an important part in international support programmes for the respect of women's rights and those related to this particular case. I am thinking of those of the G8 in June 2010, the International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo and the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing. This motion calls for more. It calls for a political and cultural commitment to undermine the principle that the rights of a woman, a child, a minor of ethnic minorities are less than the right of others. He called for politics to choose the categorical imperative of ethics. It calls for continued international efforts to succeed in achieving the end of a phenomenon that puts violence on the body of the girls and marks their lives forever, leading to death even in many - too many - cases. He asked that we do not turn to the other side of children born from these violent unions, because they will be men and women of tomorrow, destined for a precarious and unhappy life. Even more, it asks our country to adopt a new legislation that takes note that, today, the other is here. This is a motion that challenges our consciences and our sense of institutions and politics as a service to all human society and, therefore, we can only vote in favour. As I said, I will also hand over the written text of my speech in order to accept the invitation that has been made to us, but I cannot fail to say that I am sorry that I have not made any comments that I would have liked to share with this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u102	I thank you and the other colleagues who delivered the written text of the speech, taking into account the progress of the work. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 637. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 637 tabled by Senator Faedeli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u105	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I did not have time to include the card in the previous vote and that my vote was intended to be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u106	The Presidency takes note of this. If any other colleague intends to make similar reports, as I think, he can contact the offices. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 649 in the text reworded by the Government and accepted by Senator Donno. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 649 (text 2), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As previously announced by Senator Longo, motion 650 has been withdrawn. From the benches I am reminded to address the greeting of the Assembly to the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico industriale statale (State Technical Institute for Industry), Antonio Pacinotti, Scafati, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. Greetings had actually already been made, as I actually thought, but we renew them anyway because the Senate gladly greets schools. The senator who gave me this report was probably distracted. [[Applause]] I say that the President of the Senate has convened the Presidency Council, which meets immediately. The sitting is therefore suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.55 p.m. and resumed at 13.53 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting has resumed. The continuation of the meeting of the Presidency Council, which was called to horas for decisions to be taken, does not allow us to complete the agenda. Therefore, because of this interruption in the work of our sitting for the meeting that has just ended, the draft laws ratifying international agreements will be included on the agenda of the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 18 October. If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u110	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with great sympathy to you, I would like to point out that what has happened has not shown great respect for this House. It was 1:00 p.m. and there were senators there to make sure he worked. If at the moment it was understood that the meeting of the Presidency Council would go on long, someone had gone out for a minute to say what you just said, they would have respected our dignity. We've been here for fifty-five minutes turning our thumbs around. [[Applause.]] Mr President, I would like to point out to the Presidency that courtesy has not been given to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u111	Senator Carraro, I take note of your statements and understand them. Perhaps I would have said similar things in his place. However, on my own and on the part of the Presidency, there was no intention of undermining the dignity of colleagues. Sometimes, even in the parliamentary work to which you are taking part, an opinion on amendments or a meeting of the Presidency Council will vary from one of your habits which I know to be, in the areas where you have played your valued roles, much more precisely. There was a meeting of the Presidency Council and it was not that the members of the Presidency went to perform functions outside of what the House itself had the courtesy to entrust to them. However, I take note of your comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u114	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, in the industrial area of Pontedera, in the province of Pisa, the workers of the company Iscot remained for almost a month in the garrison outside the gates of Sole SpA, a company of Piaggio and FIAT. These are seven workers employed for general cleaning and industrial plant facilities, workers living in a situation of constant precariousness. Hired through interim contracts of very short periods, they tell us, that they are renewed under the threat of job loss. They are obliged, therefore, to accept all the conditions dictated by the company in the hope of having the periodic contractual renewal. The situation in Pontedera is glowing and represents a model of precarious work and exploitation now widespread throughout the national territory. There are many temporarys who are vexed and too many cases of failure to report and lack of prior control. Where is the labour inspectorate, which should prevent and defuse these situations in the bud? Where are the main unions? Workers complain about the absence of institutions in their place that leave room for the Forces of Order that file protesters. These workers would have been forced to work for seven months with massacred shifts, putting up with continuous provocations similar to mobbing. Continuous harassment and exploitation have led the Iscot workers to embark on a battle for their rights. The protest that led them to guard the gates of Sole SpA drew the attention of the media and public opinion. I remember that the company Sole, which has been asked and does not answer, is of the vice president of Confindustria Maurizio Stirpe. The company seemed to have understood the reasons for the dispute and on 22 September convened the workers to sign seven contracts indefinitely, accepting their requests. However, the company then turned back, recalling two of the workers, among the most active in defending their rights, informing them that they could no longer serve on the contract because the company Sole SpA had identified them as subjects capable of disturbing the organization of the work in the company. This is a very serious case. On October 8, 2016, there was a new tear: an attempt by the company to replace the workers with new workers, who showed up at the gates, made firmly denounced and rejected by the workers. Work must not become a form of slavery: we denounce it every day, in the Chamber and in the Commission work. It is serious that increasingly flexible contracts with little protection are being used as an ordinary form for the recruitment of employees in companies. Interim work is obviously needed to have disposable workers and put people in a precarious and insecure position. All this makes workers blackmailable, especially in the absence of appropriate controls by the competent authorities. That is why I put a question to Mr Poletti, so that the Ministry of Labour can immediately intervene on this very serious situation. For my part and the 5 Star Movement Group we tell the boys of Iscot that we are at their side: resist, resist, resist! [[Applause from Senator Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2016-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-700.ana.u115	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 4 p.m.
